the uachtaráin, the co-chair of the post office, is the leas-uachtarán. we have no agreement on the interpretation of the mff and we are not required to adopt the laws in force. we are at a critical juncture in europe and the world. there are huge implications for brexit and there is a naked gun being made to threaten trump in the united states. but now, the air is twice as clean as ever before. the mistakes made by the other two are now being made by the other two. there is more to life in the military than in the social. there is talk of more investment to be made in the esfi. it wasn't the first time a sea voyage had been taken, and now we're talking about the same thing happening again. the fact that it is not in the sme sector is not reflected in the social geilleagar which is a common source of information. the aim is to serve the private sector and those who have the means: let us look at the future. it was leadership, it was tuiscean, it was political toill agus it was uaillmhéine. the council and the commission must take the laws into account and make them binding on the management rather than on the same rhetoric.
colleagues, before i give the floor to mr niedermayer for one and a half minutes, i have to announce that there will be no catch-the-eye. i want to do that in fairness to those who may be in the room and waiting for catch—the—eye. i am obliged to start the vote for the quaestors at 16.30.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, as the presidency said, this is a complex and very long issue in terms of the length of time it has taken to bring a proposal – it is now over six years since 2011 – and i think it is fair to say also that there is a fair degree of scepticism about how operational this tax is, actually, within the ten member states. it is also fair to say that since 2011 the percentage share of tax that has come into the eu from the corporate sector has increased – much of it as a consequence of the oecd agenda. i was glad to hear the presidency refer to the fact that those member states not participating in the financial transaction tax (ftt) proposal would also have their views heard and listened to. from my perspective, there are three major problems with this. one is displacement: if you have a system where there is a tax in some financial centres and not in others, that will lead to displacement and could actually lead to an unintended consequence in terms of money going offshore. but secondly, there is a real concern in my own member state about the secondary debt markets, as to the negative impact that this could have in terms of increased liquidity and also in terms of reduced investor demand. my final remark is this. in my country, we have a financial transaction tax. it is a 1% stamp duty on the transaction of shares with incorporated irish businesses. it took in half a billion last year. the commission proposal is 0.1%. so here we have a situation where we would reduce the amount we are taking on share transactions if we went down this road, and that is why we have to think about this long and hard and make sure that member states have regard to the views of other member states.
mr president, if the social pillar is to be successful and deliver on its stated aims, it has to represent what the citizens of europe need and want. i hope that through the contributions made by parliament, social partners and civil society, the social pillar can be aligned so as to guarantee social rights in the manner that citizens deserve and in a manner that will address poverty, income inequality and other serious social injustices. we need to work towards a situation where social policy is not considered a burden to economic growth, but rather that the two are considered to be symbiotic. we must stop the subordination of the social to the economic. it is a chance for the eu to move in the right direction: to prove that it is capable of change. therefore, i urge the commission to seize this opportunity and to not let the citizens down. however, if ‘business as usual’ continues, then citizens will suffer and the rise of euroscepticism will continue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i will happily enlighten you, because we continue to treat the market as though it is some sort of god – ‘we must not interfere with the market’; ‘the market will react’. well, the market depends on people being able to spend money, and if you don’t have any money, then the markets cannot successfully work. so we need to pay people a decent living wage; we need to ensure that they can rent properties, unlike in my country, ireland, where they’re being made homeless because they can’t afford the rent and we are having to pay for them to stay in hotels. that’s about subordinating the social to the economic. this week, oxfam announced that eight billionaires own the same amount of money as 50% of the population of the world. unless we address that inequality, then i’m afraid your wonderful market is doomed to fail when people don’t have the money to spend in it.
i'm sorry, but this is my first speech in a year. i'm sorry, but i'm not going to do it. it is a very unusual subject that is between our hands and i hope that we will use it to improve our bhurúin. august is imitated by the ar gcúl especially the shocraigh uachtarán in the country dul ar aghaidh don triu termen i gcoinne a bhunreacht féin. measuring the number of people buried in the country, the number of people living in the country, the number of people with human rights, the number of people with a history of violence, the number of people with 4.6 million victims. therefore, it is unacceptable that the president should be allowed to continue to be in office until the end of the current term.
madam president, i commend this report’s thorough consideration of the process of planning, managing and achieving an efficient and sustainable flow of goods and information throughout the eu. the full realisation of such logistics may foster the smooth functioning and enhancement of the internal market, whilst contributing to european gdp, growth, employment and competitiveness. in bolstering existing and future strategies, we may achieve a more sustainable european framework of mobility across all networks, and in light of evolving economic, societal and technological trends. these efforts will have an immeasurable effect on the day—to—day lives of europeans, furthering our goals of harmonisation, whilst realising the renewed potential of the free movement of persons, goods and services across member states. i therefore support this report and voted for it, according to my colleagues’ in the epp’s line.
madam president, i appreciate that the european pillar of social rights is a central facet of the commission’s efforts to move toward a deeper, fairer and more harmonised economic and monetary union. however, in line with my colleagues in the epp, i remain cautious of certain proposals within this report, including, but not limited to: definitions of ‘worker’; certain framework directives and financial instruments outlined; as well as calls for a binding epsr and proposals in the sphere of social and educational investments. in line with my group i voted in favour of this report, as such concerns were somewhat abated and because it is important to have social rights in mind in all policy making. however, i would urge that our epp’s recommendations be seriously considered and that further dialogue may be facilitated as we lay the grounds for a european pillar of social rights catering to the needs of all member states and all their citizens.
mr president, i was pleased to vote in favour of this report on the challenges of implementing the union customs code (ucc). the ucc builds on existing concepts to streamline the customs processes and procedures across the customs union, clarifying the rules on release for free circulation and on special procedures. effective customs cooperation in the eu and with third countries is crucial, given the significant trade volumes and the challenges for the customs union since its creation. i welcome the report’s call for a timeline and for a clear strategy to ensure necessary elements are introduced for the eu customs systems. i also welcome the call on the commission to rectify any legal shortcomings that may be hindering trade. the proper implementation of the ucc is important for the eu to function as one of the largest trading blocs in the world and i am sure that such strategic cooperation may be an aspect that, despite what my good friend mr hannan says, the british may regret when they leave the european union.
mr president, congratulations on your re—election and also congratulations to mrs thyssen on a very good presentation to us here today. there is no doubt about it: a thriving digital economy is one of the cornerstones of growth and employment in the eu. however, as has been outlined by the commissioner, barriers remain that prevent us from achieving the full potential of the digital economy. europe’s digital market, for example, remains heavily fragmented. this is a key part of the european digital single market strategy which could add eur 415 billion per annum to the eu economy, creating an additional income of eur 817 per person. the digital economy is estimated to represent 22.5% of the world economy and is estimated to be worth 8.4 billion or 5% of gdp in my own country of ireland. that is an 85% increase between 2009 and 2014. so completing the digital single market is vital for all of us. because of that, we must look at the barriers and here our competitiveness is at stake. ensuring the free flow of data in the eu is simply crucial if we in europe want to keep pace with asia and north america. data localisation rules in different member states inhibit growth and are a barrier to this investment. in order to complete and implement the european digital single market and enable international data flows that support innovation securely, removing existing data localisation measures will drive down the cost of data services while expanding their use and choice. this alone could boost gdp by up to eur 8 billion per year. so, we have a lot of work to do, especially in the following areas: supervisory authorities obliging financial services providers to store their data locally; professional secrecy rules, for example in the health sector, implying local data storage and processing; sweeping regulations requiring the local storage of archived information generated by the public sector whatever its sensitivity. finally, i would just like to say i had the pleasure of working on the data protection regulation and now i look forward to working with what is not covered in that – that is non-personal data.
mr president, the recast of the renewable energy directive is a key part of the clean energy package. i am delighted that i will have the chance to work on the proposals that will shape european renewable energy policy for the decade to come and will decide whether we will achieve our goal of remaining the world leader in renewable energy technologies. i have been asked on numerous occasions in the past week what my priorities for the renewable energy directive are. the answer is very short: investor certainty. ensuring the climate is right to attract investment into the european renewable energy sector is the key challenge we face in the recast of this directive. it will be important that we put in place an ambitious, but achievable and stable, legislative framework. this is something that we have failed to do in recent years, the biofuels area being a case in point. in europe we are often great at patting ourselves on the back in terms of decarbonisation efforts, but the reality is that the rest of the world is waking up to the potential of clean energy sources at a time when our investment is falling due to policy uncertainty. europe’s share of global investment in renewable energy has reduced from 50% in 2005 to 20% in 2014. european investment in renewable energy dropped by around 20% between 2014 and 2015 for the good reason that the rest of the world sees the benefits of renewable energy. costs are coming down, but there is a great opportunity for us here and we must grasp it. it is not just about saving the planet: it is about economic benefits and job creation. we must support it with legislation.
mr president, in june 2016, i and a poultry producer complained to the european commission about the abuse of the flat-rate vat scheme in ireland. despite new legislation being passed, we still have delays and hold—ups with no serious attempt to counter this abuse. yet, one year ago, emails between irish revenue and finance explicitly showed knowledge of this abuse: in one of these emails, it states ‘abuse of flat-rate addition happening in certain sectors’. examples include avoidance in the poultry industry, where the price of poultry feed is artificially inflated by the processor, who contracts with the farmer to rear poultry, resulting in an inflated amount of flat—rate vat addition, etc. this is been happening in some cases since 2004, and yet it continues. so what does this say to vat-compliant farmers and processors? what does this mean for other agricultural sectors that have to compete? and finally, in the same week that commissioner vestager was in dublin speaking about illegal staid aid to apple, is this illegal state aid to the poultry sector?
madam president, given my sporting background i supported this report in the light of its comprehensive evaluation of sporting policy within the european union. transcending all social spheres, i firmly believe that sporting initiatives could serve as a vital vehicle for social inclusion, sporting involvement in growth, employment and indeed society as a whole. however in recent times we have borne witness to a growing trend of corruption within the sporting climate. the series of recent high-level corruption cases on both the european and international stage have made it clear that transparency and greater regulation and cohesion in sporting policy must now define our path. sport reflects society, and we must safeguard this sector for the benefit of generations to come. molaim an tuasal takkula as an jab atá déanta aige.
madam president, as a new member of the committee on fisheries, i was pleased to vote in favour of this report, which calls for a clarification on licensing rules for eu vessels fishing outside eu waters. this regulation would also extend the current licensing system to include private agreements between eu companies and third countries. the current regulation dates back to 2008 and the update of the legislation would apply to all eu vessels fishing outside eu waters and to third—country vessels fishing in eu waters. this is extremely relevant for ireland as it clarifies certain rules which would impact on our fishermen, who are such hard workers but have been affected greatly by eu legislation. providing more clarifying eligibility criteria for third—country vessels would help irish fishermen as it would ensure that those who do want to fish in our waters are fully and properly licensed.
madam president, i have always advocated strongly for initiatives such as erasmus +, and in recent years i have observed its true potential being realised for irish and european citizens alike. i therefore supported this report, due to the rapporteur’s balanced reassessment of the inter—relationship between education and innovation. in line with the principle of lifelong learning, the future of the eu may henceforth be bolstered by teams of creativity, competence and entrepreneurship. the budget increase towards this scheme reaffirms the high political and economic value of erasmus +, and i hope to see this scheme continue to grow from strength to strength, and especially be availed of by more irish people to improve their language skills, which need improving from an irish context, and also the erasmus + aspect which now encompasses sport. i know that one body that was involved with it, the leinster gaa council, are hoping to avail of that. that would be a wonderful fillip and a great way of bringing europe closer to eu citizens.
madam president, i am delighted that there was such unanimity on this oral question in committee and hopefully this will continue into the plenary, because across the political spectrum, there is agreement that we need to increase the availability of low-risk bio-pesticides without further delay. access to these types of pesticides not only increases the toolbox available to farmers but they also help to decrease the residue levels of pesticides in the soil, water and non-agri-products. by calling on the commission to come forward with a legislative amendment allowing for the establishment of a fast-track evaluation, authorisation and registration process for low-risk biological pesticides, we are also helping to resolve other pressing issues that are facing eu member states, issues concerning biodiversity and exposure to carcinogens. also, by increasing the options for farmers we can help to tackle food waste. twenty per cent of fruit and vegetables lost in the eu is lost in the fields. also potentially, by increasing the access to low-risk biological pesticides, we can help the fight against antimicrobial resistance. recent studies have suggested links between exposure to herbicides and the effectiveness of antibiotics. so increasing the availability and promoting the innovation of more low-risk biological pesticides is a win-win for farmers, consumers and the environment.
madam president, having had the honour of representing parliament both in paris and marrakech, i am totally committed to the targets set out in paris. i think the message has to go out loud and clear, to every single member state and country and every sector, that there is no escape. however, there is a difference between that and people saying we should increase ambition in europe, especially in view of what is happening across the pond. we cannot be naive, and naivety is when we have carbon leakage leading to the loss of jobs in europe and increased emissions worldwide. that makes no sense. so for that reason i back my colleagues, particularly in the ppe group and the committee on industry, research and energy, regarding cement. having a different policy for one sector is not good policy making, so i hope we can adjust that. also i welcome the qualitative assessment being reduced to 1.2, and hopefully that can be done at prodcom rather than nace-4 level. we are not looking for a free pass for any sector, but every sector is entitled to sit the exam. i hope we get it right and that we then have a strong position for trilogues.
the debate is closed. the vote will be take place on tuesday, 14 february 2017.
the next item is the report by beatriz becerra basterrechea on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on promoting gender equality in mental health and clinical research [2016/2096(ini)] (a8-0380/2016).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 february 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by constance le grip and maria arena on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the eu priorities for the 61st session of the un commission on the status of women [2017/2001(ini)] (a8 008/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 february 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by dennis de jong on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on control of the register and composition of the commission’s expert groups [2015/2319(ini)] (a8-0002/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 february 2017.
the next item is the report by dennis de jong on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the role of whistle-blowers in the protection of eu’s financial interests [2016/2055(ini)] (a8-0004/2017).
madam president, first off i just want to congratulate dennis de jong on this report. a legal framework for whistle-blowers is essential. at the moment, if you are going to become a whistle-blower in a financial sense it is a toss-up between whether you are crazy or whether you actually really want to change things, and it should be the latter. you should not have to be crazy to do it but at the moment, if you look at the evidence, that is the case. you look at people like jonathan sugarman who tried to blow the whistle on unicredit in ireland for breaches in liquidity. what happened to him? he never worked again. he has not worked to this day. so unless things change the message is very, very clear. if you blow the whistle and if you blow the whistle strong, it will most likely be rammed down your throat and the total and utter goal is to stop you ever talking again. so we need this to change because unless we do we will have anarchy and we will have even more scepticism and i do not think you want that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 february 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
madam president, last week (first) vice-president timmermans quietly shelved his anti-corruption reports, saying that there is no need for any more reports on member states. however, in ireland this week we have learned that there has been a vile, sinister and concerted campaign to destroy the character and private life of a garda police whistle-blower. the whistle-blower, maurice mccabe, raised concerns about garda malpractice, but his complaints were not processed: instead he was vilified by his own police force and on thursday it was disclosed that he was the victim of a false accusation of child abuse. a full public inquiry needs to ascertain whether there was collusion between government and the police force to destroy the character of maurice mccabe. what the mccabes and the irish public need to know now is who and what knew of this allegation. was the garda commissioner involved in the smear campaign and were there present or former members of the irish government who were aware of the heinous false allegations? the time for cover-ups and black propaganda is over, but the fight against corruption is far from over, vice-president timmermans.
madam president, last week the irish prime minister met the polish prime minister and on the agenda was the push by ireland for special status in the brexit negotiations. the polish prime minister was non-committal and said it was one of many questions that needed to be addressed, and yes, it is – but it is a very crucial question. ireland does not look for special status because we are ireland, but because there are special circumstances, very special circumstances. our exports to the uk are about 17% of our total exports, much higher than any other member state, and 41% of those exports are in the agri-food sector, leaving it open to catastrophic impacts in the event of a hard brexit. our land border stretches 499 kilometres from west to east. we have strong cultural, social, economic ties with northern ireland, and our peace process is underpinned by cross-border cooperation in all sectors. a hard border would bring about huge dislocation in all these areas. our job as meps is to ensure this reality is heard and taken on board by our partners.
madam president, conventional wisdom has it that when there is a breakdown of law and order it is due to external forces. in ireland, at the moment, law and order is in crisis but it is a crisis that comes from within. the country is convulsed and repulsed at the treatment of a police officer, a whistle-blower, sergeant maurice mccabe, an incredibly courageous individual who for his courage has been demonised in the most vile terms by some of the most senior echelons of the force, with a former press officer stating that he was instructed to spread lies and innuendo about sergeant mccabe. then there is the jobstown scandal. deliberately and provocatively a government minister visited an area her government policies had helped to devastate. her car was blocked by a sit-down protest but only her car. when she decided to leave, she did so unmolested and unharmed. as a result of this 19 people were arrested, a 15-year-old boy already found guilty and a former mep up in court shortly, paul murphy. i stand with paul murphy and the other jobstown protesters. so should every person in this house who believes in fairness.
madam president, 2016 has been a destructive year and there are more challenges ahead for us in 2017. for those of us who are committed to the european project, these disruptions or challenges should and can provide the opportunity to engage more with other nations and with other economies and to pursue with ambition the completion of eu-negotiated trade agreements. free trade does not mean a diminution of the eu standards that have been built up over so many years, protecting welfare, health and safety, social rights and entitlements, consumer rights, the right to do business, the right to trade and the need to protect and enhance our environment. rather, they can be an enhancer, an enabler and a bridge builder. if the eu is to meet the expectations of its citizens it must make full use of the enormous market potential that is there outside its borders and, in so doing, help to shape and influence global standards, standards that we take so much for granted here and yet that have needed such hard work to develop over so many years, standards that will benefit consumers and businesses who will benefit from trade deals, but also encourage dialogue between people and citizens. bridge building, not building walls, is where we should be now and it is time for europe to step up to the plate in this area.
with apologies and thanking you for your understanding, mr negrescu, you have the floor.
that concludes the item.
the sitting tomorrow, tuesday, 14 february – a very special day, which you will all note – begins at 9.00 in the morning. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament website.
at uachtaráin, we are aware of the enormous challenge facing our country. as a result of brexit and the increase in the number of people, there is a need to strengthen the laws and regulations and to increase the resources available to the people. the european union is a global player in the field of education and training. this is a case of ireland in another case where the report is under discussion. it operates within the framework of the economic rules of the european union as a direct seafarer. there is a fiscal arrangement with countries like ireland to invest in critical infrastructure. i'm sorry, but i'm afraid that's not what you want to hear. for example, in éirinn in 2017, there are thousands of people who have danced and i was one of them. you're scannalach and you're naireach. the answer to the problem of capital investment is simple: people. to create a sustainable future, not to change it, the european union must also invest in infrastructure to build a future. the european union must ensure that countries suffering from food shortages are supported, that those who are suffering from lack of access to their small bodies are not in a bad situation and that the european union must support stronger leader programmes, that farmers and fishermen are supported and that programmes are created to provide them with food. i can't let anyone take my heart anymore. the future that you want to see in the world is what you're going to be in the future.
blue-card question. – mr speaker, (first few words inaudible) there are honourable goals when it comes to tax avoidance and tax evasion. speaking as the decent person that i hope i am, and as someone who comes from ireland, that would have to be a goal. but as for the idea that the european union would do something about it if we had different structures: given that the head of the commission is jean-claude juncker, who is the godfather of tax avoidance, how do you think it would be any different if he gave europe control over this? will we not get another godfather who would rise to the top? these people have a way of rising to the top. it isn’t just cream: scum also rises.
mr president, the message from the debate this morning, despite the differences that remain on these reports, must be loud and clear: the european union, as 27 member states, remains united, and remains united after the uk’s decision to leave the european union. a clear commitment exists across the 27 member states to make europe work and to deliver for our citizens. and the good news? despite nearly a decade of crisis and internal tension, europe is finally growing again and the eurozone especially is growing again. last year there was growth of 1.8%, greater than the level of growth in the united states of america for the first time in a decade; three million jobs were created over the course of the last 12 months in the eurozone, a job-creation rate more than 2% higher than in the united states of america. so, if anything, the economic data is showing that europe and the eurozone have turned a corner and look like a much more stable economic bloc than either the united kingdom or the united states of america. i believe that europeans want an integrated single market. i believe they want solid public finances and good-quality jobs with prospects. they want, essentially, political and economic certainty. the great majority of eu citizens do not want a federal europe. they want a europe that works for them and their families. there are many difficult issues in these reports. i personally am against a finance ministry and a treasury. i am against tax harmonisation, as people know, but, in short, if we want europe to work now, today and tomorrow, we have got to do the job that we set out to do over a decade ago. that is the issue now, rather than a ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i fully supported this report on whistle—blowers and the protection of the eu’s financial interests. in fact i personally know a whistle—blower who has lost his livelihood through exposing a scheme where there is significant over—claiming of vat under the eu flat—rate vat scheme in ireland. we know that this has been happening in the poultry sector – or part of it – for over 10 years and of course a relevant question now is whether there is any similar scheme in other sectors. on foot of a complaint made by the whistle—blower and myself to the commission, ireland has amended its legislation to allow the minister for finance to stop this practice. however, it is quite clear that there is significant foot-dragging in dealing with this issue. this means that those who are benefiting from over—claiming vat will continue to do so, while those who do not overclaim vat will be at a hugely significant competitive disadvantage, both in the poultry sector and in other sectors – beef, lamb, pigs, etc. i believe there is a golden circle in certain agricultural sectors where some over—claim flat—rate vat to the detriment of other farmers and processors who are outside that circle. in fact i am referring the case to commissioner vestager to investigate whether this is a case of illegal state aid.
mr president, i want to say a number of very short things. firstly, i want to say that the people of greece deserve our respect and our solidarity. i listened to other colleagues telling the greek people that they should leave the eurozone, that they should leave europe, giving them advice. we should listen to the people of greece and, as i understand it, despite the differences that exist between the political parties in greece, the great majority of greek people want to remain in the eurozone and in europe – and they need our support. they are the people we should listen to rather than the ideology on either side of me here. yes, we can do more, and yes, the greek government needs to do more. there is a future for the greek economy in the eurozone. having come through the crisis of the last seven years, it is important that we resolve this outstanding issue before june so that there is some certainty for the greek people as they come to the next phase of implementation. i am sick and tired of hearing that there has been no change in eu policy: there has been change in maturities, and on interest rate policy. there has been no change from the international monetary fund over the course of the past seven years. had they shown the same flexibility that we in the eurozone have shown, greece would be in a better place now.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, banking union was founded on the promise of ending the days of taxpayer—funded bail-outs, a laudable aspiration. as a representative from ireland, where our people were saddled with over eur 60 billion in private european bank debt, and have subsequently suffered from years of austerity at the hands of the troika and governments led by fianna fáil and fine gael, i can say it is an aspiration we would share. but the truth is that the promise of the banking union was – and is – a false promise. in recent months, we have seen and heard the first real test of the new rules on bank recovery and resolution in the italian banking crisis. commissioner, i wish you and your team would have the courage to admit that the banking union’s stated goal of ending public bail-outs and solving the ‘too big to fail’ problem has failed spectacularly. italy makes it clear for the world to see that taxpayer-funded bail-outs can, and will, continue under these weak and loophole-ridden rules. the european central bank revised its calculation on how big the monte dei paschi di siena (mps) capital shortfall was and did not even bother to tell us why. is mps actually solvent? if not, it does not qualify for public assistance. we need rules that truly prevent taxpayer-funded bail-outs; we need to address the bad loan problem by ending the savage austerity agenda championed by this commission; and we need finally to step up and address the ‘too big to fail’ problem by introducing bank structural reform that actually separates commercial and investment banking. otherwise we are set to repeat history, and it will be the ordinary, decent families of europe who will again pay the price.
i did not get the entire english translation and i gather colleagues had a problem. was there a problem with the english booth and could we have a translation of the question please? could i get some guidance from the booths as to whether they heard the question or do i need to repeat it? could you perhaps repeat it briefly, mr jurek?
before i give the floor to our next speaker, could i just say that there were two requests for blue cards. i will take one and i may indeed have to drop the blue cards if our time is running out. so just bear that in mind.
colleagues, let me just say that the commissioner was approved by parliament and that is why she is in this position. there is no need to wave, i can see you, sir. could you just listen? please sit down. i have made the announcement and i think we can defend the commissioner’s right to be here. we will now continue with our list of speakers.
again, just before i give the floor to the next speaker, we are very tight on time and the vote is long and must begin at 12.00. so i will not take any more blue cards, in order to give colleagues who have indicated that they wish to speak an opportunity to do so at the end of the debate.
i hate to say this, but your last words were wasted and, with respect, i did give you extra time. i am trying to be fair to everybody and i need to be strict. i would just like to advise colleagues who have come into the chamber that we announced earlier that there will be no further blue cards. that is for the information of colleagues who have joined us.
i do not have the rules of procedure, but we take note of your comment.
madam president, as a member of the committee on international trade, and of the delegation for relations with canada in the last mandate, i have been following this agreement all that time. i must say i am somewhat amazed at the alternative facts which are now in vogue in this establishment and around the world. you could say this is the age of alternative facts. one of them, which has been flying around my twitter feed over the last few days, says ceta will put 90 million jobs at risk. that is nearly half the jobs in the european union and this from a country, canada, which has only 35 million people itself. these are the facts being perpetrated and which the people out there protesting today believe. if i thought it was going to cost 90 million jobs i would be against it too. in actual fact, it is the opposite. we are in favour of it because it is going to create jobs. it is going to create jobs in europe, in ireland, and that is what we want. the agreement with south korea created 210 000 jobs, and yet the canadian agreement is going to cost us jobs? is this logical? no.
madam president, i am here to represent the people and i would imagine most of us are here to represent the people. the problem is that the person who went out and negotiated this agreement has said that she does not take her mandate from the people. what sort of a democracy is this, where we send someone out to negotiate on our behalf and she brazenly says to us that she does not take her mandate from the people? i suppose she is being honest, unlike a lot of the other commissioners. the committee on employment and social affairs is against this agreement because it will cost 204 000 jobs, and if mr kelly, mep, thinks this is an alternative fact let him go into the employment committee and call them liars. the great irony, though, is that the man who casts doubt on the unemployment that will be occurring actually comes from a party with a leader who is openly a liar, and i can say that because it is official.
sorry, commissioner, please take a breath for one moment. i am not going to resume this debate until we have some semblance of order and silence because the commissioner is responding in detail to questions raised during the debate. please bear with us. we have two more speakers and then we vote. commissioner, again, apologies for the interruption.
i would like to thank the commissioner and you too, honourable members, for your cooperation in this lengthy and important debate. i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, voting ‘no’ to ceta was a most difficult vote for me. i come from a small open economy, and i am in favour of free trade. certainly in ireland we need to trade in order to survive and thrive economically. i listened to the debate this morning and i heard people say, what about the geopolitical situation? the eu, of which i am a full supporter, is under attack from both inside and outside, and if we cannot do a deal with those decent canadians, who can we do a deal with? well, all of those arguments are valid, but you cannot vote on a very detailed trade deal on your gut feelings only. you must vote on the essential elements that are in the deal. there are many elements i could comment on, but in my limited time i will mention just one, and that is the inclusion of investor courts in this deal. in one of his first addresses to this parliament, president juncker said: ‘my commission will not accept that the jurisdiction of courts in the eu member states be limited by special regimes for investor-to-state disputes’. yet that is precisely what we have in this agreement. and just as president junker would not accept it, neither can i.
the president, of course, had told me this morning that i was going to be working on a project and i voted in favour of the report and i would like to see people working on a project for seven years at a time. it has been done; and one would like to see you as chair of the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs for 5 years, but you are not here anymore. i've been imitating her in the truth. but every meeting we had, we had a subject to discuss and we had a lot of money to spend on that subject. oh, today, that god-thoradh tagtha ar an obair a rinne sé. there was a lot of talk about it, but i have to answer to commissioner malmström about what is involved in this wonderful agreement.
mr president, continuing my comments on the investor—state dispute courts, i want to say that we don’t have special courts to enforce workers’ rights, and we don’t have special courts to enforce citizens’ rights, yet this deal gives us special courts to enforce the rights of investors when they take on national governments. it’s also worth saying that these courts are not answerable to any national court – not even to the european court of justice. and i don’t believe european citizens support the inclusion of these outdated, unnecessary and – in my view – undemocratic regimes in any trade deal. i have other significant issues with ceta. what about negative listing, where we in ireland have one of the shortest lists when it comes to extra sectors to be excluded from liberalisation. i wonder how many of our politicians were involved in drawing up our short, miserable list of just three extra exceptions. and from an irish perspective, the amount of beef with tariff—free access to the eu market will be very significant, and would pose significant challenges to our suckler herd. add to that the impact of a hard brexit with 63 million fewer consumers for tariff—free beef, and this has the potential to undermine the entire sector.
the president shall state that he is satisfied with the report and the laws which have been adopted and are being adopted. i was able to speak on this subject in parliament last night, and i took it up today. in particular, we cannot export our co2 emissions to other countries, but we can also achieve our targets for cop21 and cop22. it's never been important. freisin, was more happy gur took the prodcom instead of nace 4. it will be without an important project project. freisin, an meastachán cáilíochta: it is íslithe go dtí 0.12 in lieu 0.16, mar a mhol an coimisiún agus projectecadal shrine; an t-ualach a bhí chur orthu siúd, it is without ardaithe anois. therefore, it is a good thing that duncan, belet and de lange and other people have written about this.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, at the outset i would like to thank mr telička on behalf of the ppe members in the committee on transport and tourism for his good work in facilitating our views and preparing this report. as we look back over the last 20-30 years and look at the benefits of liberalisation and single skies in our airspace and what that has meant for businesses, for jobs, for tourism, connecting people, regions and cities – that was bold, that was ambitious and that has led to the growth of low-cost airlines connecting people across europe. now we need the next tranche, the next wave of ambition. the aviation agreements are urgent and they need to progress, and i think this was outlined clearly in the committee’s report. europe is important in terms of aviation but that importance is slipping, and we now see growth in the middle east, asia and the pacific area. so we need to facilitate our european airlines and the aviation sector to tap into the growth potential of the fast-growing external markets. we know well the benefits of external aviation agreements. i mean, look at morocco, at the way activity has doubled, the balkan states, doubled, similarly with canada and the us. so the aviation air agreements, we have seen, are urgent, are important. we also need to look at ourselves and recognise that there are difficulties. congestion is going to be a difficulty. we know that by 2035 two million flights will be lost due to airport capacity shortage in our airports. that will cost money and that will cost jobs. we also have the challenges of environmental targets and, of course, the files that are still sitting have not been resolved: single european sky, slot regulation, passenger rights. commissioner, this is a time when european aviation is a success, it has been a success and it can be a success again if we equip our aviation sector to deal with the challenges that it faces today.
mr president, (inaudible) with airlines and aeroplanes, and we are very grateful to all the carriers who take us around europe every week. especially coming from the island of ireland, i must pay tribute to both ryanair and aer lingus for their courtesy and efficiency at all times. also, coming from the island of ireland means i am very conscious of the brexit negotiations coming up and of the effect that a hard brexit, with britain outside of the single market and possibly the customs union, is going to have, especially in the haulage sector. i can see, because of the major difficulties in transporting goods across britain and on to the european union, a huge demand for both maritime and air transport in relation to cargo, and this is going to increase the pressure. i agree with my colleague mr eickhout, and others, that the paris agreement has to be taken into consideration. we have to look at ways of reducing emissions, while maybe meeting increased demand, and that is a big challenge for us.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i support this resolution. i think we must do everything in our power, in the light of the association agreement between the eu and the countries of central america, to hold nicaragua accountable to the standards and respect due to the rule of law, democracy and human rights, and this is not the case at the moment. the use of state power to intimidate journalists, exclude the opposition from political life and effect full control under the judiciary system has resulted in pervasive public corruption. the presidential elections in 2016 have resulted in complaints about a lack of transparency, given the absence of independent observers, as well as the fact that the single party regime makes it undemocratic. and of course, the work and personal safety of human rights defenders in nicaragua is threatened by state-related retaliation to their activism. notably, the case of the arbitrary detainment of environmental activist francesca ramirez and her family. they deserve our support, and her colleagues also, and we must work as a union to try and get nicaragua to be fairer in their dealings with these people.
mr president, impunity, violence and security threats have hindered progress towards more efficient law enforcement in guatemala, whereas human rights defenders have been subjected to numerous forms of abuse and even murder, as has been outlined by some of my colleagues, one of whom actually visited guatemala. this is not acceptable, and we have to speak out against it. also, the participation of guatemalans in the drug-supply and illegal-migration route between central america and the united states is a matter of major concern, leading to all kinds of corruption, violence, murders and misery for thousands of people. therefore with my parliamentary colleagues, i wish to express my support for law-enforcement efforts and a strengthening of the judiciary in guatemala. also, as my colleague mr svoboda pointed out, if we are providing development aid we should just insist on certain standards. i think sometimes we are too easy and too slack in this regard and it is something that i think we really have to look at where there are continuous abuses of human rights, and indeed murder, of those who are trying to defend human rights.
mr president, having been on the regional development committee in the last legislature, i saw how difficult this topic was, and how hard people like mr van nistelrooij and mr albrecht worked and became experts in the field. when they say something one should listen, as they know what they are talking about. one of the points i want to highlight here is their comment on visibility. given that 30% or more of our budget goes in cohesion funding and that in many member states 60% to 80% of public investment comes from the european union, i wonder whether the people who are benefiting from it know of it? indeed, i heard in relation to brexit that some people who voted against were actually being employed and being paid by european funds but did not even know it. so from here on, with money that is spent in cohesion funding there must also be absolute certainty that this is communicated to those who benefit and to the public.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on preparation of the european council meeting of 9 and 10 march 2017 (2016/3019(rsp)).
thank you, and i'd like to have a few words on the subject. looking at the discussion here this afternoon and the topics on the agenda, it's all very positive. we want to create free and fair trade, complete the single market by 2018, further jobs and growth in the european union, improve our competitiveness and extend the european fund for strategic investments, which, as mr katainen, who has done so much work for it, pointed out, has spent eur 30 billion generating eur 170 billion in investment. that is a significant sum and obviously a very positive development. but i would ask the question: what credit does the european union get for all this good work? i would say, very little. so i think from now on we need to have, alongside everything we do, a communication strategy for our citizens, and also, as president juncker pointed out, it is time to stop brussels-bashing. i would say it is time to lash back at the brussels bashers. lash back at the brussels bashers. that is very important as well. go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin.
madam president, the gender pay gap is the difference between what women and men earn on average per hour before tax. in general, women are not paid less than men for the same work, because that is illegal under eu law. nonetheless, the gender pay gap is real, even when you factor in the difference in hours worked between men and women. that gap is especially wide in low paid jobs. a recent study in ireland showed that in 2015 we had a 14.8% difference in median pay between women and men. crucially, that gap has widened by 80% since 2012, when it stood at 8.3%. this impacts throughout women’s lives with knock-on negative effects on their pensions. the causes of the gender pay gap are complex. we have identified them and now we need to address them. an overarching way of doing this is to strengthen the gender mainstreaming approach throughout the entire lifecycle and to ensure work-life balance.
question for the commission: you're talking about a value that theresa may is putting on the european union. what value is there in this for people living in the north of ireland; people voting for their children within the european union, who have not done so, but who have now made an agreement with someone who has done so? i have no faith and no confidence that theresa may will give any attention to the northern ireland issue that she wants to be dealt with in the european union.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i absolutely share the concerns of members here tonight when they outline their frustration and anger at the failure of the british government to outline its commitment to protect eu citizens living in britain. but why should we be surprised that the british government will not commit to protecting the rights of eu citizens in britain when it will not protect citizens that it claims jurisdiction over? the people of the north of ireland voted to remain part of the eu. i am an irish republican. i have listened all my life to institutions like these, institutions like those in westminster, telling me that the constitutional status of the north of ireland could not change unless the majority of the people acceded to it. we all collectively came together in 1998 and accepted the good friday agreement, which underpinned that principle. well, we are saying tonight ‘right back at you.’ the people in the north of ireland wanted, and want, to remain part of the eu. that decision must be respected, and we are depending on the eu to stand up for citizens in the north of ireland because it is absolutely apparent that we cannot depend on the british government to do so.
mr president, someone having to walk hundreds of kilometres to access medicine: you would probably think of sub-saharan africa and some unfortunate mother looking to help her child. in the republic of ireland, at the moment, we have such a situation: we have a mother called vera twomey who is trying to help her daughter ava twomey get access to medicine, and to do this she is walking hundreds of kilometres from her home to our parliament in dublin. the purpose of it is so she can get access to medicine based on tetrahydrocannabinol (thc). she currently can, in ireland, get access to cbd, which is also a cannabidiol-based treatment, for her daughter. her daughter suffers from a severe form of epilepsy called dravet’s syndrome. she suffers multiple seizures. if she could access thc, which she could in germany, poland, great britain and other countries, her seizures would stop. what i suggest here is that the european union concentrate on harmonising this, rather than concentrating on jumping through hoops about harmonising what we eat for our breakfast.
uachtaráin, is the first day of the sheachtain na gaeilge 2017 celebrations. it is also an international celebration, and therefore i am happy to welcome you to the various universities, including the gaelscoil in brussels, and i will be coming to parliament next week. glacfaidh na daltaí páirt i gcluichí rólghlactha trí mheán na gaeilge. the game is played in the irish language. it's a very lively debate and a very contentious debate. in irland, for example, there are many local authorities who fail to provide services to their local irish language community. the agreement between the chill rìmhinn and the act on the gaeilge is to be implemented. it is so important to give identity, to give culture and to the right human being to be able to speak the right language. it is part of giving bhféinmhuinín, giving n-éiceolaíocht agus giving gcultúr í an gaeilge. we are proud to be here today to tell you that the last thing we want to do is to sit in the back of the bus and watch the night go by.
aachtaráin, go raibh maith agat, bhuel ar an gcéad dul síos cuirim fáilte roimh ghnéithe áirithe den tuairisc seo agus aithním cé chomh tábhachtach agus is the reason why such a decision has been taken. it is without doubt a concern that there is no programme to bring the sector back to culture and that by the end of the century there will be a whole generation of people who will be subject to the laws of the sea and will be able to enjoy the wealth that has been given to them by culture. eur 1.45 billion over a period of seven years and the commission will act as soon as more money is available. the commission understands that this is a very serious matter and that there will be no money available. i'll never know. brexit is still a sea of work, after 2020 there will be no money left in the sea. we should be honest about what we're going to learn. it's clear that we're not immune to our culture. we made a back and why we can't see each other. i'm not going to tell you. the value of the cultural sector is also the value of creating jobs. i'm not going to do this in the shaibhir or the gur minic or the nach bhfuil acu ach a gcultúr mar ábhar luachmhar. now i want to be a part of creating the sector. thank you.
a uachtaráin, what does the term european saoránacht mean? is term leathan that ann gur can mean different things to get away from. it's important, of course, that something will be done about it. in addition, we have a real responsibility to take the lead in the fight against terrorism in the european union. caithfear an question to ask why the laws have changed? i'm not going to try to kill you, i'm not going to kill you, i'm not going to kill you. i've been thinking a lot lately about how to answer that question. europe is more than europe is social europe. europe is not only focusing on military forces but also on the economy, employment and public investment. europe is choosing to move from the cities and to put in place a framework that will not be safe in the future. europe is putting the people first. the european saoránacht is a term that has been used in the past to describe the european saoránacht.
mr president, i see that democratic engagement and civic participation are encouraged under this programme. wonderful! a brilliant idea, but the problem is that this institution does not really believe in it, because if this institution gave a damn about democratic engagement then when the irish people voted against the lisbon treaty, because they did not want to give up any more sovereignty, you would have respected that. when the people of ireland voted against nice you did not accept it. you sent the bully-boys over. you sent the commissioners over with michael o’leary on ryanair planes to convince us we were wrong. where is the connection there with democratic engagement? we engaged, you rejected! when it comes to greece, you rejected ‘oxi’. if you want to do something about scepticism, then kill the causes of scepticism. appreciate democracy. shut up talking about it and do it!
mr president, firstly i welcome the fact that commissioner king is wearing a green tie. it may be indicative of his desire to become an irish citizen like some of his british colleagues have done here in the parliament. if so, you are most welcome, commissioner. a propos the debate ‘europe for citizens’ the question is: are the citizens for europe? not so, or not enough of them, and people have indicated reasons – populism, scepticism, nationalism, self-serving opportunism à la marine le pen, and so forth. the rapporteur mentioned one or two other reasons today which are very important. one: the programme we are talking about is not well enough known, and if people are not aware of something they cannot appreciate it. that is the first challenge. the second is the low success rate in applications. instead of people being delighted to apply and be successful, they get deflated. we have to make sure that does not happen in the future. i agree completely that we need a bigger budget, and we should also expand the programme into the voluntary sector and the sporting sector, where there is a true dimension of european value.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, our 2017 annual report on equality between women and men, which was published last week ahead of the international women’s day, shows that despite progress there is still a lot of work to be done. on the positive side, the report indicates that new initiatives have flourished throughout europe in many areas, including promoting women’s participation in decision-making and economic independence and combating stereotypes and gender-based violence. on the more worrying side, it shows signs that member states may be moving in the opposite direction and that, in some instances, we might even witness stagnation. we have already heard these worries from your speeches. in addition, the gender gaps in pay and pensions are decreasing at a glacial rate. therefore, the eu has an important role to play to ensure continued progress in all countries, and i am glad that the european parliament has always been an important partner in this endeavour. further efforts are needed to close the gender gaps in employment, pay and decision-making and to fight gender-based violence. the commission is prepared to table a comprehensive and ambitious package to improve conditions for working parents and carers, to better reconcile the work-life balance and to support the higher participation of women in the labour market. yes, this is the package which we promised to come up with after withdrawing the maternity leave directive. if you remember, i tried to explain that the maternity leave directive had already been implemented – or rather the goals of this directive as it was proposed were implemented – in the vast majority of member states and that we need to come with something more ambitious, also covering greater flexibility and better choices for working parents. this is the policy – not only legislation, but a comprehensive policy – which the commission is going to propose and adopt in april. i am looking forward very much to discussions in this house on this package. also, regarding violence, we announced for 2017 a year of focused actions to fight violence against women, and i am glad to see that many actions are taking place to follow this aim not only in the member states, but also in this house. in addition, we remain committed to finalising the negotiations for the eu accession to the council of europe istanbul convention as soon as possible, and we call on member states to continue their ratification processes. i can assure you that whenever i go those member states that have not yet ratified the convention, i am pushing them to do it as soon as possible, as this is also an important step forward in order for the eu to join the istanbul convention. on women on boards, we heard that it has been blocked. i can only confirm that this is true. this has been blocked in the council. i invested a lot of energy and time into convincing those member states that we needed to achieve the necessary majority, which is one big member state and two smaller ones, namely germany, which already has the law. to my great disappointment, this has been blocked. we had to open something which i call the ‘second front’, so we are now addressing – through the diversity charter and through many, many different individual actions – the companies directly so that they change their corporate governance policy and introduce more diversity in their managerial culture. i believe that, in the meantime, we will be able to push the member states to change their position so that we can adopt the women on boards directive. the commission also welcomes the report on implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. we will remain fully committed to ensuring gender equality in the access and provision of goods and services across the eu and will ensure that the directive is fully and correctly implemented in all the member states. promoting gender equality, of course, requires the allocation of adequate funding possibilities at all levels. the 2014-2020 funding programmes already provide means of promoting gender equality and gender mainstreaming in key policy areas. examples include the european structural and investment funds, and in particular the european social fund and the european regional development fund, which are key financial sources for promoting equality, for example in access to employment, career progression, reconciliation of work and private life, equal pay for equal work, labour market integration of migrant women, and investment in the provision of childcare infrastructure. also, the rights, equality and citizenship programme co-finances national and transnational projects, promoting equal economic independence, overcoming rigid gender roles and stereotypes, and raising awareness of the gender pension gap and its causes and consequences. it also invests in preventing and combating violence against women by financing projects supporting victims of violence, training relevant professionals, raising awareness, and preventing violence linked to harmful practices. there are also other programmes, such as horizon 2020 or the development cooperation instrument, that are instrumental in promoting gender equality and gender mainstreaming. currently gender budgeting is not applied systematically to the eu general budget. however, indicative funding for gender equality can be provided for programmes that include a clear gender equality objective and use gender equality indicators, allowing for the specification of allocated amounts. the strategic engagement for gender equality provides an overview of eur 6.17 billion in eu-level funding allocated to achieving the targets and objectives of the strategic engagement. this report and its recommendations are very timely, as preparations for both the 2020 eu funding programmes are starting. the promise made 60 years ago in the rome treaty of equal treatment between women and men must continue. it is an achievable goal if we all join efforts to deliver on that promise.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, i am here on behalf of, i suppose, the ‘bean-counting’ committee but, given what was said in this chamber in the last month, i have got to say this: less than a generation ago in my country young, unmarried, pregnant women were treated as lesser beings, their babies consigned to institutions run by so-called religious orders where some were starved to death, others were sold to be experimented on by big pharma less than 50 years ago. the young mothers themselves were often consigned to a life of slavery and abuse in the magdalene laundries. things have moved on but we still have a long way to go. we do not have to go back decades to find unequal treatment of women. we do not have to go back to ireland, why we do not even have to go outside this chamber. just this month in the mini plenary in brussels, one of our supposed colleagues made the statement that because women are smaller, weaker, less intelligent they should be paid less than men. i have news for that mep: there are women in this chamber who are bigger, stronger and more intelligent than many men. that does not make them superior to any man. it makes them equal to all. i hope we can go some way to changing what we need to change even further and shutting people like that up.
mr president, we came here this week to strasbourg in the expectation that the british government was set to trigger article 50, and yet again we see that there is a delay, as the lack of leadership, the lack of direction among the british government, again becomes apparent – and the people who, once again, are left to suffer the results are those very people from countries who voted to remain part of the eu. the places we have seen leadership come from are scotland, where nicola sturgeon has shown theresa may to be the failure in politics that she is, and the north of ireland, where 70% of the people, when given the opportunity, voted for parties that supported the remain campaign in the referendum. we need to ensure that the north of ireland is secured with special status. we did not allow, in the irish border region, the british military at its height to force a closure of the irish border. we will not allow the eu institutions to do so now. we need europe to stand with the people in the north of ireland.
mr president, on 15 june we will see the abolition of roaming charges across europe, and it has come to my attention that some mobile operators in ireland are altering the terms of customer contracts before the abolition of charges due to kick in in june. i have spoken to a number of consumers whose mobile providers have informed them that they are planning to change their terms and conditions in order to offer unlimited data to home users while charging an additional price for, and capping, data when users are roaming in the eu. i believe that this is an attempt to circumvent eu law and the roam-like-at-home principle. we need to be tough on these operators. it must be made clear that there is no loophole whereby part of the domestic data allowance could be regarded as a gift or a side benefit and would not count when travelling abroad. the end of the roaming charge, as we all know, was a hugely popular consumer initiative that took many years to complete. it demonstrated to customers and consumers across the eu the very positive side of the european union and the benefits that it offers them. what is involved here is roaming charges by stealth, pure and simple.
that concludes the vote.
mr president, this report contains many, many important aspects but paragraphs 49 and 50 – where we talk about the differences in health requirements for horsemeat produced in europe and for horsemeat imported into europe from third countries – are particularly pertinent. this is an issue that has been raised by many colleagues, not just in my member state of ireland, and it is a problem that the commission is aware of, although thus far it has either decided not to do anything or is unable to do anything. the vote for this report today repeats our message to the commission that consumers do not want different standards for horsemeat produced within the eu and horsemeat that is imported. i was surprised to learn that over 75% of horsemeat is imported into europe – so we rely heavily on imports – and that, as a result of our strict standards in europe, half of our horses are excluded from the food chain, even though they could usefully be included. and given that we are going to vote on food waste, maybe this is an issue that needs to be looked at.
mr president, my mother used to say ‘waste not, want not’, and i think many of us in this house will know that phrase. it makes a great deal of sense and that is why i supported all of these reports on waste management. however, we are going to have to do some work in member states to convince the public to deal with their household waste in a way that separates what can be recycled from other waste streams. i was disappointed to learn that several – i think 160 – containers of green-bin waste from ireland were stopped because they were found to be contaminated. so we need an education and awareness programme for citizens about the importance of separating waste in a way which allows us to reuse it, putting it back into the entire production cycle. lastly, i would say that rural europe, including rural ireland, tends to be used as an illegal dumping ground for waste from villages, towns and cities, and this needs to stop. we are destroying our countryside.
mr president, i too would like to compliment simona and also karl-heinz florenz and others for working on these reports. the bottom line here is that we have too much waste and we must do everything we can to reduce it. and these measures which we have passed here today, and which i was pleased to vote in favour of, will hopefully mean that member states will do everything they can to move to a circular economy. these reports are strong and balanced positions for the european parliament and they will help us to move towards a more resource-efficient and sustainable economy. it is a big challenge, but one that must be met. for instance in 2010 eu waste production was 2 520 million tonnes, of which only 36% was recycled. the remainder was put into landfills and incinerators. up to 600 million tonnes of this could have been recycled and the resources returned to productive use, but instead was wasted completely. this is just a synopsis of what is happening. we have got to eliminate municipal waste and general waste and move to a circular economy.
before i close the debate, mr škripek has asked to make a personal statement under rule 164, which we will now invite him to do. but i would just say that, as you will be aware, you may not speak on the substantive matter but obviously address observations or rebut remarks that were made about you in person. so i now give you the floor under rule 164.
mr škripek, as you know, i was not in the chair during that exchange. rather than addressing this now (because the debate is almost formally finished), i propose that you address the issue that was raised in the minutes of the sitting. if i had been in the chair i could perhaps be more specific, but because this was left to the end of the sitting, and under rule 164 there are very particular issues that can be addressed rather than the substance of the debate, with your permission, if you would be happy to address this in the minutes of the sitting, we could accommodate that.
if it was a question that was raised in the format of normal questions – blue cards – then it should have been addressed at the time of the debate. i was not in the chair so i cannot make that judgment now, but i would ask you to talk to the services and we will address your concerns in some other manner rather than at this point. thank you for your understanding. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu priorities for the un human rights council sessions in 2017 (2017/2598(rsp)).
mr president, there are about 28 words in the full title of this proposal and the length is probably appropriate because agri-food chains have become longer and more complex, and as a result the eu is more and more exposed to new risks. therefore we need improvements in the controls along the food chain, and i was pleased to see the commission coming forward with proposals in this regard. i welcome the hard work that has been done in the trilogues and i think the agreement provides for a simpler and more effective control system for food and food safety rules, veterinary and phytosanitary requirements, organic production and protected geographical indication rules. this agreement is important to ensure comprehensive scope and it encompasses the whole agri-food chain, which is vital for the safety of the food consumed by all eu citizens. i am pleased that we have a provision for penalties against fraud and i welcome its inclusion. the horsemeat scandal of 2013 is something that must be avoided in future, with better controls and traceability provisions as well as punishments for infringers. the bigger the punishment, the greater the deterrent. we know only too well the potential damage that can be caused for the entire agri-food industry of a member state in the even of unwanted ingredients ending up in the final product as a result of lax controls, with the ensuing controversy upon their discovery. it is important to stop this early, and i believe that the current agreement will help to do so. it is also important that there is provision included to ensure that food business operators can have a quick follow-up inspection if they are found to be non-compliant. this is crucial, as companies must be able to act quickly, rectify the situation and get back to trading or production. a common-sense approach will help eliminate mistakes and hopefully ensure they are not repeated. ultimately, this is all about protecting our citizens and ensuring that consumers have confidence in the food they are buying and consuming, and that is the job we are trying to do.
mr president, we are now seeing a very disappointing pattern, whereby by some member states, including our presidency, play in fact a destructive role in council by opposing reforms for fair and transparent corporate taxation. indeed, my own finance minister in ireland claims ireland is committed to the highest international standards on tax transparency, but then, on the other hand, is also on the record as opposing public country-by-country reporting. government and tax industry representatives claim this is about trust. they say the irish people have trust in our revenue agency, therefore country-by-country reporting does not need to be made public. but a lot of people do not trust organisations like revenue. they were, after all, the agency that gave the infamous sweetheart deals to apple. so making country—by—country reporting public is vital to ensure democratic public scrutiny of corporate taxation. transparency and sovereignty can go hand—in—hand, but we need governments to stop using the limitations of the oecd’s proposals as an excuse to block action on tax transparency. either we are in favour of transparency or we are not.
the president, if we are to govern the parliament in accordance with the laws of those countries, we must not be governed by them. in the following countries: nigeria, somalia, south sudan and yemen, there are currently scans of the amount of money that people are spending on drugs and drugs, and the eu should do more to help countries without any other single country in the world. i also joined the people who said that the world was going to end with a million more people dying, a domhanda bank, an imf and a sea without water. they don't want to know, but it's clear that they're the reasons why more people are being exposed to the dangers of immigration in developing countries, such as the cataracts, the bad effects of climate change. cop 21 will bring laws on the future of the climate to the table and will make every effort to make real progress in the countries concerned.
madam president, even though it is now 10.30 p.m, i am enjoying this debate. first, and foremost, i would like to commend the rapporteur, mrs toia, and also my good friend and colleague who has just left, gunnar hökmark, who did an excellent job and reached what i believe to be a good and well-balanced agreement. the key point here to remember is that a requirement for the fast roll-out of 5g is: do we want to be a leader, or a follower? allocating this spectrum as soon as possible is vital if we want to ensure the steady roll-out of 5g. 5g is a development which brings significant benefits to european economies. we were too slow in deploying 4g and, as a result, we were left chasing our competitors. we need to secure enough spectrum for this roll-out between faster download speeds, higher capacity, more broadband users and more reliable networks. this is crucial for businesses and citizens alike, and we need to ensure that they are at the forefront of the roll-out. coming from a rural constituency, i know only too well the problems with connectivity outside urban areas. skibbereen is a town in county cork, in my constituency. it is ireland’s first rural digital hub, ludgate, also known as gigabit town. as a result, skibbereen is home to many innovative businesses and projects. it is an example of the possibilities when our rural areas are given access to strong connectivity, and i am extremely proud to see such great work happening in my constituency. this frequency band is crucial for ensuring the provision of these broadband services in rural areas, to keep up with towns and cities and help to ensure that our rural population is not left behind in the digital age. from the perspective of ireland, a country which prides itself on leadership in the digital start-up sphere, it is crucial that we set the infrastructural framework to attract companies to europe, and this means rolling out 5g. we cannot be left behind in this regard, otherwise we are allowing jobs to go elsewhere at a time when we should be giving the signal that all of europe is open for business.
madam president, that the eu collectively, and many member states individually, have gained immensely from ireland’s fishing grounds since our accession in 1973 to what was then the eec, is indisputable. it is also indisputable that when the value to the eu, with the fish taken from ireland’s fishing grounds, is taken into account, far from being a net beneficiary of funding since joining the eu, ireland is in fact a net contributor (pardon the pun). the question is, though: to what extent, and exactly how much, has the eu gained from irish fishing grounds since 1973? through a series of written questions to the commission i have been trying to establish that figure, and have failed. why? the reason repeatedly given is that the eu does not have the data for individual member states and, for that reason, will not even attempt to give me an estimate. as i said, that the eu has gained from our fishing grounds is indisputable. the fact that they refuse to even give an estimate of that value from all the data they do have is not acceptable. i repeat, this is a matter of major significance for ireland, even more so now that the eu has lost the uk. get that data and get me that number.
madam president, i would prefer not to have to come in here and do this, but we are at the end of our tether at this stage. potentially, up to 60 meps and meps’ assistants are not receiving their email, and their diaries are not working. we have attempted to resolve this through itec. itec does not know its elbow from its posterior, unfortunately. the administration has not contacted meps to tell them about the problem, and, wait for it – i hope you are looking for a bit of a laugh here – i had been told that i would be informed by email when my emails are back. now when my emails are back, i will know because they will be back. i will not need an email to tell me. it is a complete and utter mess. we do not know when speaking time is happening, we do not know when our appointments are happening, and this is happening to up to 50, 60 people in here. yet every time we go down to itec, it is as if pol pot has taken over: it is year zero, and they know nothing about it. it is unacceptable. you have heard the phrase about being able to ‘run a piss-up in a brewery’? well, you have failed. can you sort it out? can mr tajani sort it out? the 125 000 people who voted for me would like to know that i will know when my appointments are and when i have to turn up to work. it is fairly basic. (the president cut off the speaker)
uachtaráin, originally called la fhéile pádraig, was born in the ngael. therefore, i would like to have the ceilidh held on august 1st. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the control of the use of certain dangerous substances in the production of certain dangerous substances. but it's clear that president duterte has done it. more than 7 thousand people were killed (of whom 60% were murdered) and many remained uncertain about what was happening. freisin, you know the use of coming down on an air freshener when you're talking to the seanadóir leila de lima. the nile is right and we have to stop the flow of air in the philippines from the sea to the sea. caithimid brú a chur orthu deireadh a chur le pionós an bháis agus cothrom na féinne a thabairt don lucht freasúra. caithimid brú is a french poet and writer. go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin.
mr president, along with my group, i welcomed this report as it calls for mandatory due diligence checks on suppliers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, otherwise known as conflict minerals. all industry initiatives now have to comply fully with international oecd due diligence guidelines. this sends out a clear message from the european union that we wish to eliminate the strong interrelationship between trade and conflict that has defined this industry for far too long now. in the long term, regulations such as this prevent armed revolts or human rights violations being financed by the illegal revenue from mineral extraction and trade. the rapporteur’s aim was to create an efficient and workable regulation which also affords due consideration for smaller smes. i am confident that we have reached an agreeable solution in this regard. looking forward, cooperation in this area will thus bolster the market in responsibly traded minerals, while serving the interests of communities and people caught in war and conflict.
mr president, i support this proposal, sharing the rapporteur’s belief that the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) needs to be matched by adaptations in the supporting scientific advice and therefore the data needed for it. the proposed changes comply with what is necessary and appropriate for the achievement of the basic objective of improving data quality, access and availability in the fisheries sector. quality data collection is essential for the proper implementation of the cfp. from an irish perspective, fishing has always been economically and socially important to us as an isolated nation. with the cfp, crucial for the prevention of over-fishing and marine pollution, it is therefore important that we improve upon the functioning of the system in place. this agreement will ensure the simplification of the current data collection system, avoiding duplication and improving the framework for gathering quality data.
mr president, an article published by the financial times on 15 december 2016 contained several excerpts from leaked frontex reports and claimed a high level of cooperation between smugglers and ngos. the newspaper has since retracted claims that frontex had accused ngos of collusion with smugglers. no doubt about it, but this is a very troubling accusation in an already distressing human rights situation. rescue missions are conducted with great valour, bravery and spirit on the part of those people involved in them, whether they are the european border and coast guard, frontex, member states or non-governmental organisations. in this regard, i would like to sincerely sympathise with the families of captain dara fitzpatrick and the crew of the irish coastguard helicopter that tragically crashed this week, illustrating the point. the european response to various crises has been adopted in the spirit of solidarity and cooperation on which the european union was founded. i would hope that this approach will continue to guide our action in this area and that we will move forward. i would like to highly commend all those who work in the sector. 5 000 people died at sea last year. from an irish point of view i am disappointed with such claims, given the european and my own government’s commitment to relieving the humanitarian crisis as it has developed in recent years. in september 2015, as a direct response to this humanitarian crisis, the irish refugee protection programme was established. in a gesture towards the most vulnerable individuals of this migration crisis, ireland pledged to accept the quota asked of it by the eu. i wish to take this opportunity to stress our deep commitment to delivering our decision to accept these refugees and asylum seekers. at present, more than 12 500 refugees have been rescued from mediterranean waters by irish naval forces. we have dispatched countless naval service vessels and our commitment to continue doing so still remains undisputed. however, suggestions of collusion between human traffickers and ngos provide yet another obstacle to the roll-out of europe-wide rescue and resettlement efforts. it is thus paramount that no cloud should hang over the human rights agencies and ngos which are entrusted in these areas.
mr president, i have been a strong, consistent supporter of volunteers and volunteering both before i came to this parliament and since. so, was i overjoyed when i heard this proposal on the european solidarity corps? initially yes, but there are many serious questions that need to be answered. how can we make a clear distinction between the volunteering and the occupational strands? what criteria do you intend to use, commissioner? how can we ensure that there are no abuses in the system and that young, energetic, idealistic young europeans do not find themselves on the fringes of precarious work? funding is a critical issue but we have no details. the target seems to be 100 000 volunteers. that needs real resources. i agree with you commissioner, young people will play a key role in promoting and strengthening solidarity. it is crucial that the programme delivers a quality experience for volunteers and the communities they serve. you spoke of many different programmes –life, erasmus, european citizens, rural development to name a few – but i need to know where is the coherence? we need that detail. you have used a lot of fine words and your intent is good but i am concerned that this is a rush job. it is not fully thought out and the clear parameters have not been set and sufficient funds are not in place. i want it to succeed but i am concerned that we have not yet put the proper structures in place.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 6 april 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the commission’s answers to written questions by daniel caspary, tiziana beghin, sven giegold, emma mcclarkin, alessia maria mosca, helmut scholz, michael theurer, isabella adinolfi, marco affronte, laura agea, clara eugenia aguilera garcía, daniela aiuto, jan philipp albrecht, eric andrieu, laima liucija andrikienė, maria arena, pascal arimont, georges bach, burkhard balz, heinz k. becker, ivo belet, bendt bendtsen, brando benifei, joëlle bergeron, vilija blinkevičiūtė, andrea bocskor, reimer böge, simona bonafè, david borrelli, lynn boylan, elmar brok, klaus buchner, reinhard bütikofer, enrique calvet chambon, nicola caputo, matt carthy, david casa, fabio massimo castaldo, lorenzo cesa, dita charanzová, nessa childers, kostas chrysogonos, salvatore cicu, alberto cirio, birgit collin-langen, lara comi, ignazio corrao, andrea cozzolino, pál csáky, daniel dalton, rosa d'amato, nicola danti, michel dantin, dennis de jong, fabio de masi, angélique delahaye, andor deli, albert deß, tamás deutsch, herbert dorfmann, pascal durand, stefan eck, christian ehler, bas eickhout, frank engel, norbert erdős, ismail ertug, eleonora evi, josé inácio faria, markus ferber, laura ferrara, santiago fisas ayxelà, raffaele fitto, christofer fjellner, karl-heinz florenz, eleonora forenza, michael gahler, kinga gál, ildikó gáll-pelcz, elisabetta gardini, jens gieseke, julie girling, michela giuffrida, tania gonzález peñas, esteban gonzález pons, ingeborg gräßle, karoline graswander-hainz, iveta grigule, takis hadjigeorgiou, marian harkin, monika hohlmeier, györgy hölvényi, filiz hyusmenova, peter jahr, danuta jazłowiecka, eva joly, agnes jongerius, marc joulaud, josu juaristi abaunz, syed kamall, othmar karas, rina ronja kari, krišjānis kariņš, karol karski, tunne kelam, jude kirton-darling, dieter-lebrecht koch, ádám kósa, dietmar köster, stelios kouloglou, andrey kovatchev, werner kuhn, merja kyllönen, ilhan kyuchyuk, giovanni la via, alain lamassoure, philippe lamberts, bernd lange, werner langen, jeroen lenaers, peter liese, norbert lins, barbara lochbihler, sander loones, paloma lópez bermejo, javi lópez, antonio lópez-istúriz white, sabine lösing, elżbieta katarzyna łukacijewska, ulrike lunacek, thomas mann, david martin, edouard martin, fulvio martusciello, jiří maštálka, barbara matera, marisa matias, gabriel mato, costas mavrides, valentinas mazuronis, david mcallister, mairead mcguinness, morten messerschmidt, martina michels, miroslav mikolášik, siegfried mureşan, renaud muselier, victor negrescu, angelika niebler, luděk niedermayer, lambert van nistelrooij, artis pabriks, massimo paolucci, dimitrios papadimoulis, aldo patriciello, eva maydell, piernicola pedicini, alojz peterle, marijana petir, pina picierno, tonino picula, markus pieper, sirpa pietikäinen, georgi pirinski, miroslav poche, salvatore domenico pogliese, cristian dan preda, franck proust, carolina punset, godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, julia reda, viviane reding, terry reintke, herbert reul, frédérique ries, michèle rivasi, inmaculada rodríguez-piñero fernández, claude rolin, bronis ropė, dariusz rosati, fernando ruas, tokia saïfi, sofia sakorafa, anne sander, alfred sant, marielle de sarnez, petri sarvamaa, jacek saryusz-wolski, algirdas saudargas, marietje schaake, christel schaldemose, elly schlein, sven schulze, andreas schwab, molly scott cato, olga sehnalová, jasenko selimovic, remo sernagiotto, czesław adam siekierski, birgit sippel, renate sommer, barbara spinelli, bart staes, joachim starbatty, ivan štefanec, jutta steinruck, dubravka šuica, richard sulík, józsef szájer, tibor szanyi, adam szejnfeld, antonio tajani, hannu takkula, dario tamburrano, keith taylor, pavel telička, lászló tőkés, ruža tomašić, romana tomc, evžen tošenovský, ramon tremosa i balcells, helga trüpel, ernest urtasun, inese vaidere, ivo vajgl, ramón luis valcárcel siso, marco valli, wim van de camp, tom vandenkendelaere, paavo väyrynen, sabine verheyen, daniele viotti, axel voss, jarosław wałęsa, renate weber, bogdan brunon wenta, lieve wierinck, hermann winkler, iuliu winkler, anna záborská, jan zahradil, marco zanni, flavio zanonato, joachim zeller, marco zullo, and milan zver (o—000003/2017 – b8-0216/2017).
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on trafficking in human beings by barbara lochbihler, bodil valero, terry reintke and judith sargentini, on behalf of the verts/ale group, malin björk, cornelia ernst, barbara spinelli, marina albiol guzmán, martina anderson, dennis de jong, kostas chrysogonos, eleonora forenza, jiří maštálka, kateřina konečná, dimitrios papadimoulis, stelios kouloglou, kostadinka kuneva, josu juaristi abaunz and marie-christine vergiat, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, catherine bearder, nathalie griesbeck, cecilia wikström, louis michel, filiz hyusmenova, morten helveg petersen, maite pagazaurtundúa ruiz, sophia in ‘t veld, gérard deprez, beatriz becerra basterrechea, izaskun bilbao barandica, renate weber and petras auštrevičius, on behalf of the alde group, and birgit sippel, anna hedh, soraya post, pier antonio panzeri, elena valenciano, iratxe garcía pérez, roberta metsola, constance le grip, andrzej grzyb, teresa jiménez—becerril barrio, anna maria corazza bildt, mariya gabriel and cristian dan preda, on behalf of the ppe group (o-000024/2017 – b8-0212/2017).
madam president, thank you for taking all the speakers. i appreciate it. this is an enormous problem, not just in europe but right across the world. as we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, the treaty that set up our union and has led to peace across the entire european union for 60 years which is good, now we have to look at more details. not just in terms of stopping war and bringing peace to our union, but for individuals to be treated properly, with respect and dignity. there is far too much exploitation going on; there are far too many smugglers, human traffickers exploiting women, young children, etc. i think now is the time to reflect on what we can do to ensure that there will be peace both in terms of the continent, but also for individuals, where they can work and live properly and with dignity right across the european union, and for smugglers and others to be prosecuted and dealt with.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his detailed response. however, i have just some comments to make. on our first question we did look for some details and i am not sure that you have provided us with the details we would like. this investigation, which is a criminal investigation, was going on for two years and in that time products that were unfit for purpose were placed on the market and we need more clarity about the extent of it, and where they were sent to. the second point i would make is in relation to the return of products on the high seas. i have to say, if i were a brazilian consumer and i heard that this product was being returned to brazil i would be very frightened. i would want this product destroyed somewhere and to have a guarantee of that if there is any doubt about its quality, because insofar as i worry about european consumers i clearly would have a worry too about brazilian consumers. in relation to how this was discovered, probably the only good part of this story is that there was an investigation and the system was found wanting. it reveals an all too close relationship between the industry and those who are inspecting it, and it reveals that where an industry is very large, then it is very powerful. while i like what you are saying, that there would be no lowering of eu standards, these are very fine words but the problem is that if you have this type of activity in an industry that is supplying the european union today, how can you guarantee that it will not continue tomorrow? so we still have some questions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the truth is that if this commission was prioritising the livelihoods of european farmers and the well-being of european consumers then the recent scandal relating to brazilian meat imports would have immediately led to withdrawal from the mercosur trade agreement talks. instead, last week, the commission released a joint statement with the mercosur trading bloc committing us to concluding a deal as soon as possible. not a single mention whatsoever in that statement of the complete breakdown in trust following the emergence of the meat scandal just ten days previously. it appears that revelations that rotten meat, meat treated with carcinogenic chemicals, meat mixed with cardboard, that had made its way into the eu under your watch, could not dampen the enthusiasm of this commission to try to conclude dangerous and regressive trade deals. this time last year commissioner hogan told us that beef was temporarily off the table of these negotiations. but where is the follow-up timeline or detail of the conditions under which it will be brought back to the table? where are the assurances for poultry, the sector which is actually the single largest category of meat consumed in ireland, for example, and which faces far bigger brazilian import quotas than even beef? what about the other sectors that stand to be impacted by cheaper, improperly treated agricultural products? where are the assurances for consumers who should be confident that what they buy in the shops or order in the restaurants is properly treated? at what cost is this commission actually prepared to continue pushing with these deals? it is time to protect our consumers and to protect our farmers. it is time for you, commissioner, to ensure that we withdraw from the mercosur trade talks.
madam president, i think there is a credibility issue here. not so much for brazil but for the european commission. the credibility of brazil has been questioned for a long time, as my colleague mr nicholson pointed out. they, members here, the irish farmers journal, the ifa, exposed the fraudulent activity 10 years ago and here we are with another scandal now. what does the commission do? nothing! they are letting down european consumers. we are supposed to have the highest standards in the world within europe, but we do not for food coming into europe. the first thing we should do is ban brazilian beef. look what happened when bse struck in ireland and in europe. it was banned, and it still has not yet been lifted in some cases. seventeen years! that is how you act to defend your citizens and your consumers. tolerating and asking for guarantees is no good. we must ensure that guarantees satisfy us so that our consumers can know that they are getting the highest standard of food within europe at all times.
madam president, i have a question for the commissioner. commissioner, you spoke of the highest safety standards in the eu, but my question is: who is taking responsibility for ensuring the safety of meat imports into the eu? as my colleague seán kelly said, this is not the first time. ten years ago in this parliament we were discussing the absence of traceability of brazilian beef, and tonight we are discussing an even bigger scandal which shows systematic failures in controls at all levels in brazil. european consumers rely on the commission to ensure safe food. european farmers rely on the commission to ensure verifiable equivalence in the food products we import. the commission has failed in this duty. several countries moved swiftly to ban brazilian beef. some have relaxed that ban, but we sat on our hands and failed our citizens and farmers again. it cannot be business as usual in the mercosur negotiations. the mutual trust that should be there has been shattered.
madam president, commissioner andriukaitis talks about current and future safety. i notice he did not talk about our past safety because we have been let down and it is too late on that. then he goes on to talk about continuing these trade talks, but surely the best way to guarantee the safety of european citizens is to give them access only to meat that comes from the safest system – in other words, from the european union. surely it makes sense to have a short supply chain and interestingly enough, i have not heard many people talk here about the fact that we have signed up to doing something about climate change. how on earth, pardon the pun, does it makes sense to bring meat from that far away across the planet and potentially send it the other way – although we are not allowed to do that yet, though potentially with trade talks. who is mandating you to do this? because apparently we are not going to do this. as for safety checks, how can you increase physical checks? what are you going to do – have x-ray vision? you are already physically checking it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i think it is true to say that many sectors are very concerned about the fallout that may occur in relation to brexit. in ireland, the fishing industry is definitely a sector that is really concerned about what the terms of brexit will be and what will transpire in relation to territorial waters, quotas and maximum sustainable yield, etc. for that reason the concerns, especially, of our coastal communities and their mainly small vessels fishing within quota, have to be taken into consideration, and the proposal by my colleague liadh ní riada is one that tries to make that distinction. one size does not fit all and while we have to continually reform the common fisheries policy we have to be cognisant of the fact that there are big and small countries, big and small fishing vessels, and that each of them must be considered and given their due regard, especially where we, the coastal communities of ireland, are concerned.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president shall have the right to lease the vessel to the fishing vessel owner in the same place as the fishing vessel owner. the council has not adopted such laws, and the legislation is not very broad, and hence there is no traditional industrial fishing. the main reasons for this are the lack of information on the fishing industry and the need to take account of the social role of the fishing industry, the environment, fishing methods, fishing efficiency and scale. the dual nature of the legislation to support the monarchy and the rule of law is such that it damages the environment, gives the people power, and makes life less difficult. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. the three-year-old son is technically right to do the same thing as the old man. i am glad that parliament voted to have these laws written. i hope that the council will fulfil its commitment to develop this legislation and will continue to do so in the future.
i would like to say that i fully support the laws and the reporting of incidents where women are particularly affected by their work and life. in fact, they're still keeping their lives in the hands of their wives and sisters, their mothers and fathers, their workers and farmers and all kinds of people. freisin, they are helping go more laws in the movements of women to keep their husbands working, and they should be able to give them their jobs. i fully agree that we should give them fair treatment, treatment, better social life and also the chance to give them a better education without any discrimination. last week, a group of us in the parliament visited him and he was very happy to be here and i hope he will be back again. go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin.
madam president, now that article 50 has been triggered everybody is focused on what will transpire in relation to negotiations. we in ireland are well aware that we will probably be the most affected country in the european union – economically, definitely, especially in relation to agriculture, but more importantly in relation to the border that hardly exists right now thanks to the good work of the european union over many years, the usa and the two governments. you could walk across the border now just as easily as you could walk from one of these rooms to the other. that is the way it has to stay, because if you unravel that you could set things back 20 years. it would upset trade, it would upset jobs but, above all, would upset peace. we cannot risk that in ireland or the european union, too much has been invested in it. this is not a bargaining chip. the border, which is invisible at this stage, must continue into the future.
mr president, when i first heard of the emissions scandal i could not believe it. i could not believe that such reputable businesses would go to such lengths to treat both consumers and the system ... especially in relation to emissions reductions, which are so much part of the european profile at the minute, when we are leading the world in relation to cop21 and cop22. so i think there is no need here for sympathy for those who were involved, and for that reason we need a few things to ensure it does not happen again. one: deterrents, and two: vigilance. if compensation is given to people in the united states then it is very difficult to say why it should not happen here in europe. and vigilance means that we have to be sure that the supervisory agencies do their job.
mr president, i welcome mr dalton’s good work and again congratulate him on it. this is a regulation that is so important to our citizens, not only in terms of consumer confidence and information, but also to prevent the damaging effects of emissions on public health and on climate change. in this regard we must do everything we can to prevent cheating by car manufacturers aiming to manipulate emissions and fuel consumption tests and produce false results for financial gain. we must do our utmost to ensure that consumers are protected at all times and that the quality of goods is as described at the point of sale. a number of measures here are worthy of support. random market surveillance to be carried out by member states on at least 20% of new models on the market is a very good idea. unfortunately, given the proven dishonesty of certain players in the market, this is a necessary step to prevent manipulation of testing. i am pleased also that the commission will be given responsibility for insisting on the recalling of vehicles, for example in order to bring non-compliant vehicles into conformity. above all, i welcome the penalties. a fine of eur 30 000 per vehicle in breach of regulations might seem a lot, but in actual fact it is nothing. the solution is simple: comply with the regulatory requirements and the penalty will not apply to you. from the point of view of reducing harmful emissions etc. this is a very good report and i commend everybody involved in it.
the next item is the vote.
i'd like to take a look at the second piece of legislation. if you are going to be a self-employed person, use the phrase "mompreneur" and you are going to be self-employed on a woman's basis, you are going to be self-employed on a man's basis. i don't think that we should be afraid of the sea without a sea, but we should be afraid of the sea without a sea. i'm not sure i'm going to be able to focus on it without a thógaint.
we take note of your comment and we will ask the language services to the look at the issue.
that concludes the vote.
we are now going to have our explanations of vote, so i would ask you to clear the chamber.
madam president, along with my colleagues in the epp group, i welcome the findings of this report which sought to explore the actual implementation of union law in the automotive sector. the findings of this report proved both unacceptable and disappointing. nonetheless, i appreciate the initiative and dedication evidenced by the committee of inquiry in their thorough investigation of the contraventions and maladministration in this area. a range of discrepancies, as well as their negative impact on the attainment of our air quality objectives, were duly identified. however, i believe that the findings of this report provide us with an opportunity to re-evaluate and improve upon the existing eu framework on emission measurements. enhanced regulation and discipline will therefore provide the keystone for future procedures. this is an issue of huge importance and so we must act strongly on any manufacturer that cheats the system and harms our citizens in this way. we simply cannot have another volkswagen scandal and the impacts on climate and public health are too great not to take decisive action.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i have to say that i thought this day would never come. i am relieved and happy to be here. glenis willmott and peter liese, who led us in these two important files, are to be congratulated for the work they did and the work we all did on this. and commissioner, thanks go to your colleagues as well, and to the council, because this was not just technical; it was political. i am also glad that the chamber is full with visitors, because what we are talking about today will affect each and every one of us, now and in the future. also, commissioner, thank you for acknowledging the importance of this industry in terms of both jobs and its output. this industry makes our lives better and extends our lives, and for that we should be grateful. yes, we are talking about when things go wrong, and that spurs us to do more things, and to do them better. we should acknowledge that the industry is a very good industry that europe should be proud of. what we are doing today is making it more certain for that industry to continue, so that when we get slightly older and may need things that are improved upon, we may live better and longer lives. may i, at this point, say that glenis willmott has gone through the technical details, so there is no need for me to repeat that. what i think is most important is that we implement, and that the member states who have signed up to this, and the commission who are with us on this journey, realise that this parliament will keep a watching brief and will make sure that resources are put in place so that we do put action on the words. lastly, can i say that our staff – as has already been mentioned – are hugely important. i think it is very important that we say this openly, because on the technical side they were incredible – both our group staff and our individual staff. if i may say so, i very carelessly lost two staff members during the course of this regulation, and both to the medical devices industry, because they are excellent workers on behalf of citizens: mark taylor and sinead duggan, who i know is watching this debate. i think that is the good thing about what we have done. we will make our industry more certain. we will make safer the lives of citizens, and we can grow jobs and grow our economy. so today, fingers crossed, is a good day.
mr president, medical devices cover a wide array of products, from sticking plasters to heart valves, to analytical laboratory equipment; all in all, about 500 000 devices in the eu market. the proposals here mainly focus on scrutiny of devices before they are placed on the market and their surveillance after becoming available as well as their traceability and the supply chains, and this is highly commendable. proposals include stricter criteria for designating and monitoring notified bodies, adaptation of classification rules and streamlining of different assessment procedures. we must ensure a high level of health and safety protection for eu citizens using these products and must adapt the eu legislation to the significant technological and scientific progress in this sector over the last 20 years. i believe that with this text these goals will be achieved and i commend the rapporteurs willmott and my colleague, liese on their significant work in this regard. with this work, we will see stricter requirements for notified bodies who check the conformity of these products. this is important for consumers who rely on them for ensuring the highest standards for these products in the eu. strengthened rules for high-risk devices are also welcome, as is the guidance and expertise to be provided by expert panels and laboratories on this issue. this is also important to ensure the utmost safety of products on the market. i am pleased with the inclusion of the enhanced system of traceability of devices along with post-market surveillance. i welcome the setting up of a central database. a good job well done by the rapporteurs.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. a uachtaráin, cé go bhfuil céimeanna beaga tógtha agus cu fáilte roimh an tsolúbthacht sin, i ndáiríre cad is féidir linn a rá faoin creat airgeadais ilbhliantúil seachas: plus ça change? (i'm not sure what i'm going to do with this, but i'm going to do it.) the same tree bears the same fruit, but the same root causes the same disease. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. we had to think about the challenges we face and how to tackle them; how to better give to the world, how to invest in different economic models, how to improve partnerships between our countries and within our societies. in irland, agus ar fud in eoropa is known as the people go bhfuil an taontas eorpach ag athrú. why does the commission not adopt laws in this area when they are already being debated in parliament? why don't we recognise that we need to change the laws and the rights that will be in place after brexit now in ireland and give funding and support to our farmers, give smes, give people jobs and give the public? we recognise that the commission and the council have a european union agenda in the year ahead, and we are very, very excited about it. we have to face the fear of the laws that will result in brexit in britain. we have already discussed the laws in the past and we are not yet ready to discuss the future laws until they are agreed. is crosbhóthar is the tree gcomhair anois, agus tá sé thar am dúinn an treo ceart a thógaint; is is without investment to make in aontas is based on dhaonlathas, dlúthpháirtíocht agus dul chun cinn sosyal. without further ado, i would like to thank isabelle thomas and jan olbrycht for the excellent work they have done.
mr president, can i join with others in congratulating the joint rapporteurs on this topic, ms thomas and mr olbrycht, for their work. like others, i consider it is important that we have a flexible mechanism to ensure, over a seven-year period, when new priorities arise, that we can respond to that in a clever way, and that is exactly what we are discussing here today, and hopefully in the vote tomorrow that will be successful. just two points. my first point is this, that the overall budget is of course a tiny percentage of gross overall expenditure within the european union, and the most effective way to ensure that we have more money to spend, and that we spend it wisely in a reformed way, is to ensure that we have growth across the 28 member states of the european. that is happening this year. we see significant growth in the euro zone, we see three million additional jobs within the euro zone. despite all the negativity that exists about the euro zone and europe, europe is coming back faster with a higher growth rate, and that is the most important way that we can ensure that we have additional funds to put into key investment for the european union via the budget.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, can i join in congratulating the rapporteur, neena gill, on this file, and indeed all the other shadows for the work over the course of the last three years in what has proved to be a very controversial and difficult file. i am glad that we have achieved what i regard as a balanced agreement, on the one hand recognising the potential systemic risk and threat that can in a worst-case scenario come from money market funds, while at the same time, recognising the intrinsic value of these short-term financial instruments to businesses up and down the european union. i think we have come along way from the original commission proposal which essentially proposed a 3% buffer, which could at one glance have knocked out, in my own country, eur 400 billion worth of domiciled funds as a consequence of that very harsh proposal. we have all compromised in this proposal. we recognise the importance of money market funds for businesses in terms of short-term financing needs, and we also recognise that we are behind the united states, who have already put in place a regulation to deal with this issue. but i should say, as i said in the course of the trilogues, the problem was not in europe, it was in the united states of america. i think great political skill was shown by the rapporteur and her team, with my own team, and indeed the team from the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) in devising this particular solution. we have a framework that allows cnavs, vnavs and lvnavs to coexist together. we have liquidity buffers in place, we have diversification, we have escalated procedures in place, improved transparency, the sunset clause is gone which i am delighted about, and we also have a very strong review when it comes to the question of government cnavs, but the government cnavs remain in place. i believe we now have in place a good package which we can present to the entire financial industry and to the citizens of europe to make sure that this industry, which is so important to the future growth and development of europe, remains in place.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, this proposal which began as an attempt to reduce systemic risk in the shadow banking sector is now deeply disappointing. let us not forget the role that money market funds played in sparking panic and fire sales in the us during the financial crisis. we had an opportunity to reduce the risk of a future crisis in the global economy and we have failed to take it. these changes will be largely cosmetic and the address of cnavs has not been agreed. systemic risk, in other words, remains fully in place. as mr hayes has said, certain funds in ireland and indeed luxembourg will benefit from this outcome, but what is the cost? last year the financial stability board warned that shadow banking in ireland was, unbelievably, 10 times the size of our economy. we have already lived through a financial crisis in ireland that was caused by a banking sector that was actually formally regulated but wholly inadequately so. we need to take the dangers posed by the huge and unregulated shadow banking sector very seriously and we need to act accordingly.
the presidency, as my colleague brian ó haodha has said, is a very controversial, difficult and difficult subject, and in fact it is a very good recommendation by brian and by people like valdis dombrovskis, a commissioner, and a rapóirtéir as ucht an obair a chuir siad isteach ag déileáil laws. it is a pity that they have not been able to join the european parliament and that they are not prepared to work for us and to work for us as citizens. i ended up giving it to brian, and he said, "we're taking it to a hospital". therefore i am happy to go with you to-morrow and hope to go to the law tomorrow.
mr president, the agreement on the prospectus regulation is a major step in the development of a genuine capital markets union. i want to congratulate the rapporteur and all of the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this file and indeed their discussions with the council and the commission in the course of the last number of months. making it easier and cheaper for companies, especially smes, to raise capital within the markets and to go public ensures that european companies can grow and prosper in a sustainable way. we do have a real problem in europe with our over-reliance on banking finance. as i have said repeatedly, 75% of lending in the eu comes from our banks and 25% from the capital markets. in the united states, it is the opposite. this agreement signals a strengthening and deepening of our capital markets in europe. for example, the new growth prospectus regime will boost the ability of small and growing companies to raise money across the whole single market, according to one common framework. there are legacy issues from the previous prospectus directive. while it was working relatively well, it did not enable a truly strong functioning single market to exist. it created some legal uncertainty and imposed some burdensome requirements, leading to increased cost and the creation of inefficiencies. the existing regime allows member states to transpose the directive in their own way, which led to 28 separate regimes, and i am glad the commission decided to issue the new regime as a regulation. this created proper harmonisation because it was much needed. i also want to welcome the different regimes that have been created for frequent users and for secondary issuances. this will ensure the entire industry benefits from a lighter prospectus regime. this is a good example of how the eu can actually help cut red tape where it is needed and a key component of the capital markets union.
madam president, in my one minute i will concentrate on how brexit affects the island of ireland. the words ireland and northern ireland appear eight times in the document we are discussing today, and that in itself indicates the importance that the european parliament attaches to the unique position and special circumstances confronting the island of ireland. it is crucial to safeguard peace and, therefore, to preserve the good friday agreement in all its parts. we insist on the absolute need to ensure continuity and stability of the northern ireland peace process and avoid the re-establishment of a hard border. those are not my words; those words are written in the document we will agree today. so we start with good intent, but over the next few months all of us will have to come forward with workable solutions that will make a reality of those fine words. we share a border of almost 500 kilometres with northern ireland. we must maintain our common travel area, otherwise the dislocation could be catastrophic for our small island. finally, i want to agree with michel barnier that we should ensure a free and fair trade agreement with a level playing field. that must also be the outcome between the republic and northern ireland.
madam president, talk of brexit and divorce reminds me of the song ‘50 ways to leave your lover’. you know the one: ‘slip out the back, jack; hop on the bus, gus’ and now we have ‘say day-day, may’. i wish it was that simple but this divorce, after 44 years and with no precedent, looks like it is going to be tough, and possibly rough. for that reason we need calm heads, clear minds and creative thinking, and with michel barnier at the helm, i think we have the package. where ireland is concerned, we are very grateful to all groups in the european parliament for taking the concerns of our taoiseach, our government and my colleagues on board. the special circumstances of ireland are referenced, and this sends out a powerful message to the citizens of ireland and of europe that when one country, no matter how small, is adversely affected, disproportionately threatened, the european union will stand in solidarity behind them. and boy are we threatened, both economically and politically. but with this solidarity we can be confident that the terms of the good friday agreement will be observed to the letter, that there will not be, cannot be and must not be a return to a hard border and that the prosperity of ireland, especially our exporting sector, must not and cannot and will not be sacrificed on the high altar of expediency or pride. common sense not nonsense, pragmatism not pride must prevail. this is the best way to leave your lover.
mr president, we welcome the position of the european parliament ahead of the brexit negotiations, that it is unambiguous in relation to ireland. it recognises that the people in the north voted to remain and it commits that the good friday agreement must be preserved in all its parts. crucially, the parliament position calls on negotiators to do everything to avoid any hardening of the border. written as it was by groups with whom we have fundamental disagreements regarding the current and future direction of the eu, we in sinn féin consider this report to be a successful vindication of the dialogue with which we and other irish meps have been engaged in since last summer. parliament’s position is even more positive when compared to the draft of the council. despite assurances from the fine gael government, the council draft is weak, non-specific, and simply not up to the standards that the irish people, north and south, require. my appeal to this house, and to the other european institutions, today is: please do not allow the people of ireland to suffer the consequence of our own government’s incompetence.
mr president, it is happening. the united kingdom are packing their bags and they are leaving the european union. when david cameron attempted to get what he called a better deal for britain, he was told that the four freedoms were sacrosanct: they could not be changed. and predictably, when he went back to the people of the united kingdom he ended up losing, and he ended up losing because he went back with nothing because he was told that the four freedoms were sacrosanct. yet, at the moment, we are now embarking on another process. a white paper where we look at the future of europe, where two options could potentially have satisfied the united kingdom’s grievances. option two is nothing but the single market, so we could potentially have a situation next december where we have decided to restrict freedom of movement whilst still negotiating with great britain on the basis that market access cannot happen without freedom of movement of people. someone please explain this contradiction.
a uachtaráin, was a debate we had in the morning on an mbreatimeacht agus den chuid is more than was fair, féaráilte agus ciallmhar. it was therefore with great pleasure that i informed you of the decision taken by the irish government to grant the agreement to the chéasta and its successors. now, after the debate, the decision was taken by the parliament, and the next day the laws were taken by the council: 516 votes in favour and 133 against. it's not like i'm not gonna be able to do it. the european parliament is therefore united, and we can now move forward with the negotiations between the united kingdom and the union and reach a common understanding on the future working of the united kingdom and the union.
mr president, this morning was important with a really strong resolution and a good debate. for me and for the people i represent, which is a border constituency in ireland with northern ireland, paragraph 20 is important. it talks about the unique position and special circumstances on the island of ireland and says it must be addressed in a withdrawal agreement. it very specifically says that we must do everything possible to avoid a hardening of the border. i drive through northern ireland to visit my constituents in donegal. i see no difference in our territories except that there are kilometres where i am from and there are miles in northern ireland. i want that difference to be the only one that exists after brexit, but – let us be frank and honest – there is a lot of work to do to live up to the words that we have voted through and there is a political responsibility on the british prime minister and her government to deliver more on this commitment. we did not vote for brexit, but we have to live with the consequences of it.
mr president, i have worked on this dossier for almost five years with other colleagues, so it is a good day that we have approved tougher and better legislation on medical devices because public health is our primary concern here and that is vital. but so, too, is the medical devices industry: it is a vital part of our economy and it produces products that sustain lives, quality of life improves and our lives are extended by it. so good work has been done across the house. the next step is implementation, and here the commission and member states and we ourselves must keep a watch so that what is in the legislation is put into effect. there are two core issues, but i will deal with one in particular and that is post-market surveillance of products. many of the problems with faulty devices were made worse because there was not adequate post-market surveillance. in other words, there was no reporting system and the problems were not identified. this legislation changes that and let’s make sure it is fully implemented.
mr president, i welcome this proposal, which is the final piece of legislation required to ensure that mobile roaming charges will be removed by this coming june – something we have promised for a long time and something that the eu has delivered for its citizens. as an mep who campaigned with others for the abolition of ... (the president interrupted the speaker because of a fire alarm)
mr president, i did not realise that my kerry accent was so magnetic that i would set the alarm bells ringing in parliament, but i do hope that you enjoyed your roaming free of charge around the parliament. so now to this topic. i welcome the proposals, which are the final piece of legislation required to ensure that mobile roaming charges will be removed from this coming june. it is something we have promised for a long time and something the eu has delivered for its citizens. as an mep who has campaigned with many others for the abolition of roaming charges for the last seven years, i am delighted that we are now nearly there. it is already eighteen months since, in 2015, it was proudly announced here in the european parliament that, after a long process, ‘roam-like-at-home’ was to be introduced by june 2017. it was a very high-profile and important announcement. while tomorrow’s vote might not have the same fanfare, its importance cannot be overstated. the introduction of this wholesale roaming cap is an absolutely essential piece of legislation, as it allows for ‘roam-like-at-home’ to happen in a cost-effective manner this june. the caps that we arrived at in the end: eur 0.032 for a voice call, a gradually-decreasing cap from eur 7.75 in 2017 to eur 2.50 in 2022 per gigabyte of data and eur 0.01 for text messages represents a fantastic result for the european parliament, particularly given that the majority of council favoured higher caps. wholesale data prices are declining by around 40% annually across the eu. the overly-cautious council position just did not reflect reality. i feel the final result could have even been better, but such is the nature of compromise. in my own country we are very pleased with the outcome, because it means that the higher caps, which would have put artificially-high costs on to irish producers – this will not happen now. it is a good day for the european parliament, especially when we speak about brexit – again an indication that the united kingdom citizens will not benefit from this. it is no wonder roger helmer and his colleagues were so agitated.
madam president, i welcome the opportunity, unlike my italian colleague across the floor, to mark international roma day and to recognise the culture and tradition of europe’s largest ethnic minority community. eight million roma live within the european union, and while the eu has developed a framework, we all know that the situation continues to be awful for the roma community. for years the roma community have been victims of forced assimilation. their time-honoured culture and traditions were eroded and the cohesiveness of their communities were shattered. we also must never forget that half a million roma were killed by the nazis during the holocaust. we all must work together if we want to realise the aims of the framework and to break down the prejudices that do exist towards their community. we must work to build trust among the community for the institutions within the various member states. is it any wonder that children do not go to school when they are faced with attitudes like those we have heard today, on a day-to-day basis? in ireland, two children were taken from their parents by the police. why? because they were blond and they could not possibly belong to the roma family. so is it any wonder that there is no trust within the roma community for the institutions? it is not okay that in 2017, members of the largest minority in the eu are still more likely to die early, to be illiterate and to live in squalor than the rest of the population.
mr president, protecting human rights activists from reprisal is a priority for the eu and indeed my own country, ireland. it is imperative that the belarusian authorities release and drop all judicial charges against peaceful protesters, journalists, human rights defenders, civil society activists and opposition members who have been detained in connection with the current wave of demonstrations. i welcome the call for this in the resolution. we should not allow ourselves to be mollified by piecemeal concessions when gross human rights violations remain. the political will for liberalisation shown by the belarusian government is incompatible with their use of capital punishment and renders them undeserving of eu rapprochement. i welcome this resolution by the parliament and hope the belarusian government will act immediately to address the concerns that have been outlined in this resolution, particularly the call for electoral reform, and for belarus to join the moratorium on the death penalty.
a uachtaráin, is rud uafásach, mhífhéaráilte, sean-nósach is an english word for "after the children". today, it is spread around the world, and is measured by an international movement called girls in bridges, which is attended by 71% of girls under the age of eight. i'm not going to be fair. it's a bangladeshi head of state. it's against the law. why do you have a law that says that you can't get a real job unless you're in a special situation? what is special about ann? every case could be a special case. therefore, as we have to deal with the authorities in bangladesh in the face of this change, we should also help them to educate themselves in the face of this change in culture and to link them to us and to stop their abuse.
mr. president, i am very pleased that now we are finally there in our seven-year battle to introduce ‘roam like at home’ for our citizens, and i would like to thank all meps who voted in favour today: 547 in favour, 27 against, 50 abstaining. indeed, i would take issue with what my good friend mr hannan said from the united kingdom. the european parliament did play a huge part. if the markets had their way, the prices would be much higher because they would collaborate with one another. when the commission made its proposals, the wholesale prices were much higher, and it was only the good work of those of us who were actually involved – and if mr hannan and his colleagues had got more involved they would know what was going on – that reduced, first of all, the roaming charges over a period of years, and now finally this piece in the jigsaw: the wholesale charges and we can have ‘roam like at home’. otherwise, the prices would be sky high, as mr hannan would like us to have.
mr president, along with other members of my group i voted against the committee’s report on the adequacy of protection afforded by the eu/us privacy shield in favour of supporting the alternative text tabled by the epp and the ecr. the committee report contains very critical statements that i believe could potentially harm businesses that rely on the privacy shield to transfer data across the atlantic securely and efficiently. this criticism comes before the upcoming comprehensive annual review which is envisaged in the privacy shield framework, which ensures that the european commission and data protection authorities can monitor the functioning of the system and keep it up to date, and so the claims in the report are therefore premature. the epp/ecr text better acknowledges this upcoming inclusive review and is more balanced in its critique of the safe harbour system which has not changed in the time since the epp resolution of may 2016, which welcomed the substantial improvements in the privacy shield compared with safe harbour. this allows the comprehensive review to take place and assess the findings afterwards.
mr president, in the 1600s, when naples was experiencing its golden age, it was known as the most fertile plain in the world. in the past 20 years, however, naples and the campania district have had new nicknames: ‘land of poison’, ‘triangle of death’, ‘land of fires’. the latter, of course, refers to the region of campania where toxic wastes have been illegally burned and buried in a systematic fashion since the late 1980s. this is environmental sabotage on a grand scale. from 1994 to 2008 the region of campania in south-west italy was under a formal state of emergency declared due to the saturation of regional waste treatment facilities. there is growing evidence, including from the world health organisation, that the accumulation of waste, illegal and legal, urban and industrial, has contaminated soil, water and the air with a range of toxic pollutants, including dioxins. it has even emerged that the united states navy, whose european command is based in naples, conducted a usd 30 million study from 2008-2011 into local air, soil and water. they found unacceptable health risks and advised their personnel accordingly. throughout all the research, a high correlation between incidence of cancer, respiratory illnesses and genetic malformations and the presence of industrial and toxic waste landfills has been found. reported cases include women getting breast cancer unusually early, men developing lung cancer despite never having smoked, and children born with down’s syndrome to comparatively young mothers. all this is very, very worrying. many people say that the catalyst for this catastrophe is illegal trade and that hazardous waste is a by—product of tax dodging in a country with one of the highest levels of evasion in western europe. businesses massaging their income had to mask the scale of their activities and that meant hiding huge amounts of hazardous waste. yet some people’s solution to this is to blame the european union and, above all, the commission. there is a phrase, ‘where there is a will, there is a way’, but you could also say, ‘where there is no political will, there is undue delay’. commissioner vella has pointed out the efforts they have made to help. the european court of justice fined italy eur 40 million, which they paid in 2015, and again another eur 40 million in late 2015, again eur 20 million, and, as has been mentioned, eur 120 000 daily. but all the fines in the world will not solve the problem unless there is a real, genuine effort and the political will to do so. the commission is prepared to give eur 172 million, but it can only act within the treaties and the powers given to it. so i think there is need for fresh thinking and here and for cooperation so that the land of fires can once again become the most fertile plain in the world and a great place to live.
mr president, i want to thank the commission for coming forward with this proposal on work-life balance for parents and carers. from a personal perspective, i am especially pleased to see the proposal for paid carers’ leave. back in 2005 i co-founded the european parliament interest group on carers with former colleague kathy sinnott, and since then i have either chaired or co-chaired that group with some of the colleagues, many of whom having spoken in today’s debate. on very many different occasions the carers interest group has called for a carers’ leave directive and indeed that call has been repeatedly supported by parliament, and today we have a proposal on the table. also, commissioner thyssen, your proposal on flexible working arrangements should help family carers to find the work-life balance that will allow them to continue to care. today, we are taking a step towards social europe and while we still have a long way to go, i for one am pleased that we have made a start and i look forward to working on these proposals in parliament.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, since 2007 the european court of auditors has been issuing two opinions on the general budget: an audit of the accounts and an audit of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the only one of those two opinions that matters is the second. so why two sets of audits? it’s a smokescreen. this is a gloss, a flagrant attempt to disguise the fact that, in the audit that matters, year after year the eu’s general budget accounts fail to meet minimum accounting standards. to quote mr zeller’s statement, we deeply regret that, for the 22nd year in a row, payments are materially affected by error because of the fact that the supervisory and control systems are only partially effective. this means that we have ended up with a 3.8% error rate, with thousands of millions of euros not properly accounted for – not just this year, but year after year. i propose that we vote against granting this discharge. it is time we took a stand and forced the commission to get its house in order. i am actually bemused as to why everyone is so happy about this.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i tabled a number of amendments to this report on the basis that it was allowed, to then be informed by the services that it was not allowed, to then be informed again that it was allowed, to then being finally informed yet again that no, it would not be allowed, the nature of the beast here now, under the rules. my concerns are based in a number of areas. first, there was a crossover of investment into the defence area. i am totally against this; ireland is a neutral country, and we intend to stay so. i was also worried that in the area of new investments, and especially in pps and in securitisation, the european investment bank (eib) is not guarding against the added risks of socialising losses while privatising profits. i wanted cast-iron guarantees against conflicts of interest, especially in the area of disbarment policy, where the eib falls well short of the standards set by the world bank. on transparency also, the eib falls well short of what i would like to see. because of these and other concerns, i cannot recommend the discharge.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report, given its essential evaluation of the european union’s policy objectives in this area. in particular, i welcome the report’s recognition of the principles of economic recovery, the promotion of youth employment, the fostering of innovation and smes in the sphere of entrepreneurship, and environmental sustainability and climate action. notably, i also welcome the report’s recommendation for the monitoring of efsi’s added value and additionality, thus fostering the geographical spread of the programme as we move forward. there can be no doubt that the sum total of these efforts may result in greater economic and social cohesion across member states, and i am very pleased that tomorrow in my own constituency, in the city of limerick, i am hosting an information day for businesses, local authorities, agencies etc. on efsi and the eib, which recently opened an office in my own country in dublin.
the president voted in favour of the report and therefore considered it important to ensure that the cultural heritage was protected and i welcome the proposal for a law to be introduced next year as part of the european year of cultural heritage. we should be able to give them the attention they need to give us the right to, in particular, a share in their culture and their wealth in our lives and in our society and in our future in europe. freisin, we would like to not forget the story of the sea part of the oidhrecht sin. we don't talk about stories that people make up, but stories that tell us about our own lives, especially our christian lives, that are rich in europe and that are born together. and when you're in school, don't forget to take your sports to give your culture a chance.
mr president, i left home at 5.30 this morning and arrived in here at 7.30 this evening, and this is the story for many meps. that is not very resource efficient, and that is something we need to tackle in the broader sense. at least we are trying to tackle the food waste, which is similar. the figures, which have been mentioned, actually are staggering: 88 million tonnes of food are wasted each year at a cost of eur 143 billion; the food that is produced globally but not eaten uses a volume water equivalent to the annual flow of the volga river in russia and adds 3.3 billion tonnes of greenhouse gases to the planet’s atmosphere. at time we are talking about meeting the two degree target, this is something we really have to tackle and thankfully we are beginning to do so. also, of course, we have signed up to the un sustainable development goals, and that is about halving the per capita food waste at the retail and consumer level. i was glad to hear the commissioner mention the necessity for a reliable method to measure food waste, and this is something i welcome the report. also the ‘best before’ and ‘use by’ dates. i am beginning to wonder: is there a need for a best before date? maybe the simple thing would be to abolish it. food is either safe or it is not, the ‘use by’ date would be proper and that would help to end the confusion. this is a major topic and i look forward for further development in the future.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on making relocation happen (2017/2685(rsp)). before i give the floor to commission avramopoulos, and good morning to you, commissioner, i just want to announce that the council has excused itself from this morning’s debate.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission for this paper, but it is not before time. often, the debate on globalisation is polarised. on one side we have the gung-ho supporters of free trade, regardless, and on the other we have the protectionists, for whom no trade deal is ever right. for me, this is the challenge of our generation: to manage globalisation so that free trade is fair trade. as you said, commissioner, this must ensure that the benefits of trade are distributed fairly among our citizens. but in the last decade this has not happened in the eu. while our economy has grown overall, real incomes of middle-class households have largely stagnated. commissioner, some of the messages to be sent to our citizens are contradictory. we, for example, have extra-judicial courts to enforce investors’ rights but no binding mechanism to enforce environmental standards, health and safety standards and decent work conditions. however, i do welcome this paper and the work done by commissioner vestager in trying to ensure that large corporations pay their fair share of tax, a crucial element for fair globalisation. at eu level, investment in universal broadband access allied to lifelong learning will be essential if eu citizens are to benefit from globalisation. finally, as rapporteur for the globalisation fund, i believe it has a role to play in providing a safety net, but it must be adequately resourced and sufficiently flexible so that it is available to workers in the sme sector. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is a global issue and probably can only be solved at a global level, and the oecd is doing some excellent work there with their beps project. commissioner vestager is pushing out the boat at european level and that needs to be done. a number of governments in the eu need to look at this issue to ensure that the mismatches between tax systems cannot be exploited by large corporations. i think all governments have a responsibility, but some more than others. i am not going to mention names.
a uachtaráin, voted them in the report on the sea to rinne 553 fheisire the 676; agus giving naturalmente is fadhb i seo a bhí ann riamh agus, faraor, beidh sé linn go deo. but we have no right to be afraid of their laws; we must always be on our guard, especially when it comes to spending money. it is therefore desirable to avoid misuse and to make use of the amount instead of the minimum on the annual financial expenditure. it is therefore important that we have more power to give olaf and perhaps europol more power to give them the power to enforce the laws and regulations that govern it.
the president, once again, voted in favour of the report and made 623 of the 676 recommendations; this shows that he understands how important this issue is and how important it is that we do something about it. but of course, it's in the figuri den bhia to chatter ach gach uile bliadhna scanrúil. actually, that's a great idea. look at the figures: 88 million tonnes of water are used every year in the eu at a cost of €143 billion using the amount of water flowing through the volga river in russia and adding 3.3 billion tonnes of co2 to the atmosphere. is everybody going to agree to end this?
mr president, the extremely complex conflict in syria has created the worst humanitarian crisis since world war ii. daesh and other jihadist groups have been party to cruel and brutal atrocities, and serious violations of human rights and humanitarian law have been committed by assad and western—funded rebel forces. no one side should be exempt from prosecution for war crimes. the use of chemical weapons must be investigated by a properly-resourced un mechanism, regardless of who the perpetrator is. such war crimes cannot go unpunished. i welcome the fact that further peace talks are starting today. we should support the un rapporteur on these peace talks because there is no military solution to syria, and all the sides involved must engage in the peace process in a meaningful manner. the kurdish forces and people deserve their own stand—alone seat in those negotiations through the pyd, and any establishment of zones must serve the innocent civilians of syria and not geopolitical interests.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 18 may 2017. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
there is a request for a blue card, but i am not taking blue cards because of our time constraints, and that was already announced by the previous chair.
madam president, it is very good that we are having this debate, firstly because for too long we have seen destruction and execution, the destroying of the christian heritage and people in the middle east, and we are really the only ones they can turn to. it is especially important that we send out a message to our fellow christian brothers and sisters that the european union is going to stand behind them. i was very encouraged by words of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, ms mogherini, which are important to these people not only psychologically but also in a practical sense. the fact that four out of five people killed because of their religion are christian tells its own tale, and we have a powerful role to play, especially in terms of humanitarian aid, development aid, etcetera. it should be a condition of aid that religious tolerance will be practised in these areas, and especially that there will be due regard for christians. many of us in europe are christian: are we are going to stand up for christians in the middle east?
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the dadaab refugee camp (2017/2687(rsp)).
mr president, i want to congratulate mr karim for his report. i think how we address the question of subsidiarity and proportionality is a really important issue. this commission has done an awful lot more than previous commissions in addressing the question of better regulation. i think the inclusion of impact assessments is absolutely essential. i would like to see more impact assessments done on a member state by member state level and that requires, of course, the commission to work with the authorities in those member states to produce the evidence. i think we would have a much greater involvement of national parliaments if we saw a specific impact assessment member state by member state, rather than a generic impact assessment across the 28 member states of the european union. i also think the idea of a green card is a good idea. i think it sends a very positive signal towards the institutions to do much more, and i would agree with other colleagues that we, in this parliament, should adopt that procedure. we cannot criticise other member state parliaments when we ourselves encroach on their space, and i think we regularly do that in reports and initiatives which have nothing to do with eu law and everything to do with national law.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as the epp shadow rapporteur for this file, i want to congratulate the rapporteur for the excellent work done. the rapporteur has involved people in this process from the start. i also want to say that this is one of the most important debates this parliament will have, because this is the first time, when this report is adopted tomorrow, that any institution of the european union has actually got a report on the table. i am aware that the commission is in a consultative phase right now in terms of the future regulatory environment, and i would ask them to study carefully, as the commissioner said, what we have produced in this report. we see this as an opportunity, not just for businesses here within the european union but – much more importantly – for customers. this is about getting the best deal possible for customers. it is about moving into new space, and also about transforming how we deliver financial services. a key issue for our group, the european people’s party, was the question of financial stability. we want to make sure that as we go forward we do not lose the very important steps that have been taken in the last decade or so in terms of financial stability. that is an important issue. europe is lagging behind. the great majority of the large fintech businesses have been established in the united states, in china and israel – not in europe. we are behind other parts of the world, notwithstanding the fact that in places like my own constituency of dublin, in the netherlands, in france and in germany and elsewhere, and london especially, we have seen fantastic hubs being developed. we need the right regulatory environment, and that is about the regulators working with innovators to make sure that we can do that. sand boxing was an idea that we have produced in our report. we think that there is further merit in that. we have said many things when it comes to data security. we believe that those issues need to be resolved. we also believe it is important for the digital market economy – the digital single economy – that we make sure this transformation occurs right the way across all of the institutions here in the european union. this is about a new opportunity for europe, seizing the opportunity that is there for the digital single market and making sure that our businesses in the european union, big and small, can flourish and grow within this transformative space.
mr president, the fintech revolution is one that is having, and will continue to have, significant positive effects on our economies. it will make finance safer and better for consumers and will help us to find cost efficiencies and improve the quality of our financial services. this is an area that i have particular interest in, as it is one that i see has huge potential for innovative solutions across the entire economy in terms of making payments, financing investments and managing data. the innovations we are seeing today are already allowing us to manage our personal finances easily, transfer money across borders and buy and sell shares – all on our phones. these represent enormous technological developments compared to just a few short years ago. financing businesses, and smes in particular, has proven difficult in recent times, particularly in the years since the economic downturn. fintech innovations such as peer—to—peer lending can bring significant, new options to startups. peer—to—peer lending can provide much—needed capital investments to our smes at competitive lending rates. there are obviously regulatory questions that come up in this discussion, however, and so i think that the support is timely. it is important this sector is regulated properly, but we should be careful not to over-regulate and stifle the innovation we are seeing today. the question of cybersecurity also comes into focus, especially after the last weekend, and i welcome the proposal by microsoft for a global gathering on cybersecurity. overall, this is a very positive development.
blue-card question. – we are often warned that maybe the interpreters have got it incorrect, but i don’t know if they got it correct when you used the word ‘troops’. if you did, i do not think it is an appropriate word, when you talk as a german mep talking about negotiation with britain about their freedom and sovereignty, to use the word ‘troops’ given the damage troops and wars have caused to this continent. were the interpreters correct? if they were, please withdraw the word ‘troops’. we have had enough troops and enough war on this continent.
madam president, mr weber said that the winds of change are blowing through europe. i do not disagree with him – change is on the way. mr fitto from the ecr mentioned change; mr verhofstadt mentioned change; and apparently there is a process underway to decide what that change will be called the white paper on the future of europe. however, to know what the winds of change are and what direction they are going in, you must consult with the people. we were told last march that we would be consulted with. we were told that there would be a series of future of europe debates to harvest and harness the opinions of the desired way forward. last week, i met commissioner hogan, and he knew nothing about this process. yesterday, i asked jean-claude juncker at the gue/ngl meeting where this process is. nobody can tell me. if the winds of change are coming, surely we should talk to the people. perhaps donald tusk can tell me where these meetings will take place and when the consultation will take place, because, if you are serious about it, you have got to talk to us. have you any news, because no one can tell me?
madam president, i welcome the more conciliatory approach i have detected here this morning. if you continue with that, i think we can have mature and sensible negotiations and a proper conclusion. i would also like to thank mr barnier for coming to the epp bureau meeting in wicklow last week and for taking time out to speak to the dáil (the irish parliament), and indeed visit the north. in relation to the north, if the european union, ireland and the united kingdom do not want a hard border, then why should we have a hard border? i just want to correct one thing: it has been incorrectly stated that tony blair said we needed to renegotiate the good friday agreement. what he said was that the good friday agreement came into being on the assumption that both ireland and the uk would be in the european union, and that we needed to reword it when the uk leaves. he did emphasise that he was not talking about changing the substance of the agreement.
following on from what my friend mr eickhout said, i think climate change is going to be a hugely important issue here at the g7 summit, and especially the role of the larger—than—life character president donald trump. the paris agreement is a global agreement, and if the united states were to pull out of it this would undermine it completely. and this is a man, donald trump, who claimed that climate change was created by the chinese to attack us manufacturing competitiveness, who claimed that global warming is an expensive hoax, and who claimed that wind farms are bad for people’s health. but i think that, as a businessman, he is person who is subject to change, and i think the g7 is a great opportunity to convince him that what he has said in the past is not actually true. and in the interests of us citizens and world citizens, we need to adopt the climate change agreement in paris and implement it, and the united states has to do so above all else.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the fact that today’s debate on the ecb is happening on the same day that the governing council of the ecb is meeting does not say a lot for parliament’s scheduling ability, especially as i understand the ecb was not even invited to today’s debate. the role of the ecb within the new post-crisis supervision and architecture is absolutely crucial: crucial to prevent financial shocks in the future; crucial to secure the confidence of citizens. the decisions taken by the ecb, from quantitative easing to the various programmes of support are working. growth has returned. three million jobs have been created in the eurozone in the last year. inflation is slowly moving towards the ecb target of 2%, and despite all of the armageddon predictions, the euro remains and has not been fragmented. the crisis came from light touch supervision. we are not going back to that. that is why we need a strong independent ecb, but that independence must also deliver accountability and transparency, and it is at that level that the ecb has much to do. i want the president of the ecb to appear before all parliaments of the 19 member states of the eurozone; not just the big member states. president draghi has appeared before parliaments in france, spain, italy and germany. it is time that engagement took place at all levels across eurozone countries. we cannot have an inside or outside track. all member states must be treated fairly. appearing before some parliaments and not others sends out the wrong impression. the euro is our currency. we must defend it. the ecb is our central bank. it must treat all member states with respect, and that is where the change needs to happen.
mr president, in 2015, mario draghi claimed in a letter to me that the ecb didn’t prevent the burning of our senior bondholders in irish banks, but then the irish parliamentary banking inquiry found last year that the ecb had indeed blocked burden share. we’ve learned that mr draghi’s predecessor, in correspondence to the irish government, stated in black—and—white terms that the ecb threatened to cut emergency assistance to ireland if the government didn’t request a bailout, and then demanded a series of austerity measures and a fire sale of public assets, against the opinion of even the imf. where exactly in its mandate does it say that the ecb has the power to do this? its so—called independence is pure fiction. in reality, we all know that mr draghi is completely reliant on the governing council and the eurogroup, an organ that doesn’t even exist in the treaties. so now we hear that new initiatives are being dreamt up by the commission about introducing democratic oversight of the euro. they are meaningless unless they are about democratically and dramatically reforming the ecb, and a key part of that has to ensure that the ecb is accountable to national parliaments, as well as to this house.
mr president, the transport sector is responsible for around a quarter of europe’s greenhouse emissions, and is a particularly problematic sector for ireland. achieving 80% decarbonisation across the eu by 2050, which is the goal, would likely require the decarbonisation of the road transport sector by around 95% by 2050. as epp rapporteur on the renewable energy directive, this is an area in which i have a keen interest and an area where i believe there are huge opportunities to make great emission savings with innovative solutions. electromobility is an important way forward if we are to have any hope of achieving this target. the electrification of transport would displace imported carbon-intensive fossil fuels and eliminate harmful air pollutant emissions in our cities and towns. there is great potential in this. the ev market share in norway, for example, increased from 1.4% in 2011 to 17.1% in 2015, due to favourable policies. this is a blueprint for us. however, the foundations need to be laid for this and i welcome the commission’s ideas, in the energy performance of buildings directive, to increase the amount of charging points in our buildings. we need to ensure the right infrastructure is in place if this is to be successful. in addition to this, sustainably produced biofuels will continue to play an important role, not only as a means to decarbonise our transport sector, but also for economic growth in rural areas. yes, there is a sustainability question about some feed stocks, palm oil for example, but i think our challenge in the work on the renewable energy directive will bring certainty for producers of sustainable biofuels. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i didn’t refer to that in my speech, but obviously we do not support social dumping. the proposals here, by the commission and by parliament, will address these issues in an equitable manner. i support equality, i support fairness, and definitely there are huge opportunities here for us to get a good and better transport system in europe.
mr president, we look forward to the commissioner’s proposals in the road package at the end of this month. i would urge her to look at the area of serious road injuries and road deaths, and i know she has already committed to doing so. there were 35 000 serious injuries on europe’s roads in 2015 and 26 000 fatalities. it is an area where technology can play a really, really important role in reducing such figures. be these vehicle to vehicle or vehicle to infrastructure instruments, europe has been to the fore in leading road safety and ensuring that cars and infrastructure are equipped with the relevant technology that can indeed save lives, and we can do still more. who among us can remember a time when we did not have seat belts in our cars? now they are a requirement for all cars for sale in europe and on european roads. so europe has indeed been a leader in this area. i would like also to mention the whole area of drivers and road vehicles. there has been much discussion around this, and here again we need a european solution. i would like to quote from a letter that the commissioner has had from a number of road haulier associations across europe, including the irish road hauliers group, asking for flexibility in rest periods, considering that those coming from outermost regions, and particularly islands, do have a difficulty in getting back to their home base at weekends.
mr president, the case of dr merera gudina offers a worrisome insight into the state of freedom of expression, association, and assembly in ethiopia. i therefore strongly support calls on the ethiopian authorities to prevent ethnic, religious or political discrimination and to encourage and act in favour of a peaceful and constructive dialogue between all communities. i also wish to remind the ethiopian government of their obligations to guarantee fundamental rights, including access to justice and the right to a fair trial, as provided for in the african charter. there can be no denying that the political, economic and democratic stability of ethiopia is crucial to the development of the countries of the horn of africa. we must therefore remain dedicated to the fostering of a healthy working relationship between the eu and the ethiopian government in order to advance democratic values in this state. we have got to keep working and we intend to do so.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. uachtaráin, is dóigh liom gurb is seo an tríú nó an ceathrú huair go bhfuilimid ag déanamh díospóireachta anseo faoin tsúdáin theas or bunaíodh an tír thall ansin. the uachtaráin, is dóigh liom gurb is seo an tríú nó an ceathrú huair go bhfuilimid ag déanamh díospóireachta anseo faoin tsúdáin theas or bunaíodh an tír thall ansin. but instead of things being better, they are worse because of the evil that is in them. the cathar people have written books about themselves and the writings they have made about the south. the people are still suffering from the resulting famine; 2 million people have been killed by the floods, 1.6 million people have been left behind in the streets and 7.5 million people are in need of food. it is estimated that at least eur 1.4 billion will be needed to support the laws in the eu and to create a stronger eu, we are providing eur 381 million. but in the end, there is only one answer: end to the laws of the church.
madam president, while there are a number of very positive suggestions in this resolution on the eu-korea free-trade deal, i still abstained because of the proposals on setting up the special investor courts to replace the old ones. the new system would involve the setting up of special courts, outside the jurisdiction of national courts or the european court of justice, where investors could sue governments if they believe that the actions taken or the legislation adopted by those governments would put their investments at risk. examples of this are where tobacco companies have successfully sued the uruguay government over public health legislation or where american waste companies successfully sued the canadian government when it tried to ban the export of toxic poly-chlorinated biphenyl (pcb) waste. i strongly argue that we do not need special courts to protect investors. we do not have special courts to protect citizens’ rights, to protect the environment, or to protect human rights or workers’ rights. this week, the commission launched a communication on harnessing globalisation and making it work for citizens. giving the same level of protection to citizens, to workers and to investors would be a great start.
as we approach the fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the free-trade agreement (fta) between the european union and the republic of korea, i find it most timely that we should review its implementation. i therefore welcome this report’s assessment of an agreement that went so much further than previous ftas in lifting trade barriers with our asian partners. notably, the agreement has led to a 47% increase in eu exports to korea, transforming a eur 7.6 billion deficit into a eur 2.5 billion european union trade surplus and creating 200 000 jobs. looking to the future, we should therefore aim to strengthen this trading relationship further, a relationship that we may harness to encourage further economic growth and development for the mutual benefit of the eu and korean citizens: a ‘win win’!
mr president, commissioner, first of all, both of you have been very busy this week, compliments to you. i listened carefully to the commissioner’s statements and i think they are logical. obviously we have to create awareness, and this debate will help to do that. secondly, getting more evidence; and thirdly, she said enforcement authorities need to cooperate more, and maybe in due course legislation here at european level. there is no doubt about it. i think mr peterle put it very well; he said we do not want a two-quality europe, and definitely this is emerging regarding some food products. if food products have the same packaging throughout the european union, the same brand name and are marketed as being the same, then we must ensure that the ingredients are the same. we have been given examples of biscuits and fish where this is not the case – fish fingers and probably many more. this has to stop; we have to have equality across europe – that is what the single market is about, that is what eu citizenship is about. so this is a good debate.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioners for coming to speak today on their new package. i very much welcome it. clean, competitive and connected. i certainly share those ambitions, as we all do here in the parliament, particularly in the committee on transport and tourism. i am very much looking forward to getting involved and dealing with the various pieces of legislation and reports that will come through the committees. on competitiveness and supporting workers on the working conditions which they experience, that is extremely important. in particular, we hear so much about the difficulty that road haulage companies have in attracting employees and ensuring that they stay with the job. it is an ageing profession and a profession that does not have enough women, so i very much welcome the fact that you are addressing that. regarding connected cars, europe needs to be more ambitious, provide the necessary infrastructure and facilities to develop this whole area, and not let the rest of the world run away with it. it is very important that europe is at the forefront in this whole area, while recognising that we also need a clean environment for all our citizens. it is a big challenge and they are big ambitions, but we have the capacity to do it. i am very much looking forward to getting stuck in and working in this area.
mr president, the eu needs faster and higher quality connectivity for all europeans. this is essential if we are to establish a digital single market. ensuring access to broadband across all the member states and implementing new-generation networks are two of the most important issues for the success of the digital agenda. the creation of a european society where all citizens have access to fast and high quality internet connection is essential in opening up the digital single market, not just for urban areas but everywhere. in my own country, the digitalisation of rural ireland is akin to the electrification of ireland over half a century ago. the influence of the digital economy will be the driving force in balancing the rural economic environment. leading the way, as a demonstration of what is possible if rural communities are given access to high-speed broadband, is the ludgate hub in my own constituency in skibbereen in county cork – a little town, by the way, that produced five european rowing champions last weekend. the objective of the ludgate hub is to facilitate 75 digitally working entrepreneurs, thus creating a wealth of new jobs in the west cork area. already the effects of the initiative are producing clear results, with a number of start-ups and young entrepreneurs relocating to the area – an area that has seen a huge decline in population in recent times, as young professionals were forced to move away to larger towns and cities in search of employment opportunities. we need many more skibbereens. we need the digital single market. we need these proposals.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the risk of political abuse of media in the czech republic (2017/2696(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by sylvia-yvonne kaufmann, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on a uniform format for visas (com(2015)0313 – c8—0164/2015 – 2015/0134(cod)) (a8-0028/2016).
madam president, i have always advocated strongly for initiatives that support the growth and spread of high-speed connectivity throughout all of europe. in recent years i’ve observed its true potential being realised by irish and european citizens alike. the implementation of faster and higher-quality connectivity for all europeans can act as a vital vehicle of improvement in the areas of economic growth and employment for all areas of european society. this report will pay a key role in the advancement of europe’s digital agenda and will allow us to maintain our position at the forefront of global innovation and investment by becoming a 5g and gigabit society. dá bhrí sin, mar fhocal scoir, ba mhaith liom mo chomhghleacaí michał boni a mholadh as ucht an togha oibre agus na huaireanta go léir a thug sé chun na moltaí seo a chur os ár gcomhair. tiocfaidh maitheas as a chuid oibre amach anseo do chuile dhuine san aontas.
the uachtaráin, has many people flooding the ag muintir in ukraine, first when they were under direct smacht in russia and more recently when the russians took over crimea and are trying to influence more people to be in their country. but i said to a lot of people in ukraine in 2013 that i think it's better to watch tv in the evening, so i think it's better to decide what to do, and then we'll go to the cinema and we'll decide what to do, and then we'll go to the cinema. i therefore think that the report should be brought to the attention of the european parliament and i also think that it should be recommended to the president of malta to come to the floor to discuss the many issues that have been raised in this report, particularly as regards the negotiating process. i hope that they will be able to go to ukraine in the future and that they will be able to join the union there someday.
madam president, i voted in favour of this proposal which calls for the boosting of europe’s digital innovation capacities through partnerships in digital technologies, value chains, digital innovation hubs in all regions and prioritising standards. this is absolutely vital if we are to become more competitive in europe and at the international level, and greater digitisation of industries throughout europe, including in my own country, ireland, is a priority. one area i just want to mention is the area of shortage of skills. there’s an organisation in ireland called coderdojo which helps young people to develop the skills necessary. i hope that all countries in europe could found coderdojo clubs and i am looking for meps to become an ambassador in their own country for this, because this is needed to get the coding skills that are necessary to fill the jobs that are lying vacant at the moment, and the many thousands of jobs that will be created into the future. so, meps: coderdojo, become an ambassador.
madam president, i am the last speaker in this debate and i have to say that there is really little to be said that other colleagues have not said. it is deplorable, at this time in the 21st century european union, that many of our citizens live in fear of discrimination, abuse and hate crimes simply because of their religion. as vice—president responsible for parliament’s dialogue with religions, i have been meeting religious leaders from across the european union including, of course, jewish leaders. we are hearing stories that send shivers down our spine of children being afraid to go to school and families contemplating leaving europe because of the fears that they have. i was therefore happy this week to contribute to the launch of the osce’s practical guide to combating anti-semitism. this work should help public authorities to take the necessary steps to ensure the safety and security of our religious communities. this is absolutely vital and i fully support this resolution.
mr president, while the topic here is about the fishing sector in the mediterranean, fishing of course affects all areas and is important to everybody. i come from ireland and fishing is a very important part of our economy. for that reason, i was pleased to hear commissioner moedas refer to the need to engage with stakeholders, and also the need to have up-to-date scientific evidence when we are making allocations, etc. that is a very important point. i think also it was good to hear commissioner moedas refer to third countries, because we cannot do this on our own, even if we were perfect within the european union in fish management, stocks, etc., we could not achieve much, and, especially in relation to climate change, the environment and the sea are very important. the amount of plastic in the sea is an absolute scandal and that is something we really have to work on, both from the point of fishing stocks but also from the point of view of climate change.
i would like to speak tonight to a group of european religious leaders in brussels to celebrate 25 years since the law was adopted. is conradh is ata chun cosaint a thabhairt of the chainteoirí teangacha neamhfhorleathana. is buncheist bheo i teanga san eoraip mar atá sí sa bhaile; agus cheana cheana tá an iomarca modhanna leithcheala at ndéanamh agus níl aon amhras ach go bhfuil cearta teanga daoine at sárú i gcás gach teanga réigiúnach dúchasach nó mionlach san eoraip. there is a lot of talk about the fact that the language is not the same as the one used in the netherlands, but it is the same as the one used in the netherlands. i don't speak my language, it's my first language and i want to go to school. it is important that we are strongly committed to our language rights and human rights, and we want to encourage you to do everything you can to work here tonight under the ecrml, even when you have no access to the information you need to scan. our language is important, not only to give it a identity but also to give it a meaning, to give it a n-iceology, to give it a more modern culture. a chair, as i have already said, when it comes to going to our right tongue no one else is entitled to go, there is no stopping it, they will be in our place, but certainly going to our right tongue, without laws, going to our right tongue.
mr president, first of all i welcome the proposals here today and again compliment commissioner cañete and his team for the good work they are doing in helping us to meet the paris climate targets. this is one area where a lot can be done in a very easy fashion. firstly, i am becoming more and more convinced that consumers in general want to reduce their carbon emissions, and all they need is help to do so. this is one area where consumers will embrace what we are trying to do. simplifying the labelling is absolutely crucial. how could anybody come up with a scheme of a, a+, a++? if you are going to buy an appliance and you see it marked ‘a’, well, you cannot get better than ‘a’ so it does not really make a whole lot of difference whether it is a+ or a++. but there is a big difference, psychologically, between a and c, and a and g, and also the seven different colours will help consumers. this is the way the european union needs to move in everything. make it easier for consumers to understand what it is about and they will comply. one area i have a slight difficulty in understanding is the reference this morning to erroneous labelling. erroneous labelling would not be possible if there were proper surveillance and proper penalties, because those who would engage in it would actually be put out of business. so i think that that is very important and i think the product database will help to ensure that that does not happen because it will mean proper compatibility of products, proper market surveillance, and will mean that suppliers will try and outbid one another to become more efficient and smarter in the appliances. so this is actually a great opportunity for us to do something simple, straightforward, that will help us to meet the climate-change targets in paris. well done!
mr president, i would like to take ten seconds to thank the visitors to parliament for wishing me a happy birthday – and no, i am not going to tell you what age i am, but it is all transparent and it is available – and thank you, mr president. now to the subject of this debate, because mr liese and mr huitema introduced the topic on my agenda: ireland and agriculture. i know, commissioner, that you are fully familiar with our problems in ireland, because we have a strong and large agricultural sector. we are doing a lot of work on climate—smart agriculture, but there is only so far we can go. i am all for ambition, and, mr eickhout, i hope you appreciate that. however, ambition with targets that are unachievable can be distracting, and our 2020 target was unachievable. we know that we have to do more, but what i would ask colleagues to understand is the situation where we do not have heavy industry, we have a large agricultural sector and we need much more flexibility on this issue, because farmers are concerned that the cost of this at the moment – if we look at the calculations – would be over eur 1.7 billion in terms of purchasing carbon. i do not want an opt-out here, because we all have duties and responsibilities, but i want an understanding that we are major producers of food – we export it to europe and beyond – and we need an acknowledgment of that fact in the work, and i hope that in the negotiations it will be acknowledged.
mr president, i am sceptical in many ways towards the european union, but on this, i think it is a challenge that we should meet. unlike the drive for a single currency or the current drive for a european army, this project is in our interests. but, if we want it to be in our interests, we have to bring the people along with us. mairead mcguinness, mep and vice-president for parliament, talked about the challenges to irish farming. there can be benefits if we meet this challenge; there can be benefits in producing our proteins locally, rather than bringing them thousands of kilometres across an ocean; there can be benefits in recycling the animal manure and reusing the energy and the fertiliser, saving on heavy use of energy in chemical fertilisers. there can be use in reusing water. in many cases in ireland, we are using treated water. this can all bring benefits to the farming community, and we need to sell it to people by showing that there will be financial benefits locally, because if we produce locally, people can stay locally and everyone is happy and the planet benefits.
mr president, i am totally in favour of the paris climate accord. i am totally in favour of the european union approach and especially the 2030 targets and many of the proposals here make sense. they are, however, somewhat discriminatory against agricultural producing countries, including my own. mr grzyb mentioned the starting date of 2018 instead of 2020, and the target is also not appropriate. for instance, we now have to start at the target rather than the actual emissions. it is estimated that this will cost us a billion, and the commission’s proposals took into account the mistakes that were made when the targets were set originally and if we had stuck with the commission proposals we would have no difficulty. parliament is now going beyond this and it means that agricultures like ireland will be hugely burdened. we will have to purchase compliance because we will be starting in a non-compliant area and this is something that will actually totally discriminate against us in view of the economic crisis, in view of brexit coming down the track, and now this! it is unnecessary and it should stop and i am tabling a split vote on it.
mr president, i supported this report because we need people to understand how europe works for them, unlike the comments of mr hannan. we have already had a very interesting presentation of the erasmus programme, which has been in existence for 30 years. many students who are on erasmus now do not realise that it is a european union programme. so i say well done to the rapporteurs on this report. it is time that europe started speaking out about its successes. we are damned by those who will point to our problems, but there are enough successes to far outweigh the difficulties that europe faces. i welcome this report and i think it is the start of a fight-back for the european union. i am proud that the flag of europe is on projects. i am also proud when there is an irish flag on those same projects and i see no conflict. i see a strength in that, not a problem.
mr president, i want to put on the record my support for this report because there are citizens in the gallery here who, i hope, do not understand because they have not experienced what it means to be in this category of statelessness. but, as we heard from previous contributions, it means that you do not have rights, and you do not have what other citizens have. there is a real problem in south and south east asia on this issue. this report highlights this, calls for more information and wants action to address the issue. mention was made of the situation in myanmar and of the 1.2 million rohingyas. this is a very big issue, and i am proud and happy that parliament has supported this report. but we need to follow up with constant attention and vigilance to the issue, and we need to put pressure on regions and governments to do something about it.
the president, who voted against the report, said that it was interesting to hear the views of the uasal tamburrano when he was speaking. the fact that women are likely to be able to influence women's understanding of the many issues within their practice is a good thing. at first when we were in the market, we had a, a+, and a++, and it was a mix of customers. i saw in the women, especially in the women of heaven, it is without aught that i change now. there is a much more significant scheme in place, which allows the agog to collect different data and also to collect them, to apply laws to customers to help them make their own, to reduce their prices and save money for themselves and others in the community. therefore, the practical scheme is that each person should be a part of it.
madam president, in typical commission fashion, a european unemployment insurance scheme is dangled like a carrot to gain public support, while the trade-off is the harmonisation of labour relations and anti-worker reforms. as for the proposed investment scheme, it is contradictory nonsense to create a scheme to protect investment during downturns while insisting on keeping the fiscal compact strait-jacket in place. these measures will not solve the eurozone structural problems, and they demand a trade-off in rights, democracy and popular sovereignty. i do not oppose transfers to correct imbalances but i will oppose them if they are conditional. social rights cannot be dependent on economic performance or a state’s adherence to fiscal rules. rights are rights. we will not fall for the trap of surrendering more ground on democratic rights in exchange for crumbs off the table. what we ultimately need is a real public investment plan to stimulate growth. we need effective sanctions against current-account surpluses, investment to be excluded from the fiscal rules, and rejection of the fiscal compact being enshrined in the treaties at the end of this year.
madam president, i heard earlier that, apparently, the symbol had become a symbol of prosperity. you can try and dream that up and say it is true, but it is not true. it is a symbol of incompetence; it is a symbol of bad planning. in fairness, you have admitted that there was bad planning, that you did not have the right architecture in place, and it was not very well organised. imagine you went out in the morning and bought a car, but when you went out to drive it you discovered when the dark came that there were no lights, and when you tried to put your foot on the brakes, it would not stop and crashed into the ditch. you have admitted that you caused the problem, but when that happens – when you go for something, when you promise something – if it goes wrong, you get compensation for what happened. in ireland, we got hit the tune of eur 60 billion because you had no brakes or no lights on this vehicle. we are currently picking the glass out of our face. eur 6 billion in the last two years we have borrowed and burned. symbol of prosperity? cop on, get real!
madam president, the title of this discussion is a reflection paper on the deepening of emu by 2025, and i would like to compliment commissioner moscovici and vice-president dombrovskis for coming here and making their presentations and taking the views of parliament on board. i am quite sure they will reflect on what has been said and eventually come up with good, practical proposals. one of the nicest headlines i have seen in the last couple of weeks was one which said: ‘eurozone economy grows more than expected’ – 1.9%, in fact – and i was here in the last mandate when everybody was forecasting the demise of the euro and the european union. now that measures have been taken to get things on a proper footing and things are beginning to grow again, it is only right that we should reflect and see how we can keep this growing without impinging on national sovereignty. i think this is a good discussion and we can get good progress in due course.
blue-card question. – first off, congratulations on labour’s great result. i would like to ask you this question: do you regret britain not joining economic and monetary union? if it had joined, jeremy corbyn would not have been able to make the wonderful promises that he did to put money into the economy and borrow forward into the future. you would not have been allowed to do that. you would not have had a choice in the election if you had joined emu. are you sorry you did not join it, or are you glad?
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his very detailed opening to this debate. i think we owe it to you, commissioner, to read the detail and study it because there was quite a lot of information in this. i think it is also important to point out, because there seems to be some confusion about what glyphosate is, that it is a weed killer, not a pesticide and i think that is an important point. secondly, to those who say we can do without it – hands up those in this chamber who will go out and weed the fields. because there are very few of you who will do it. i used to do it as a child, and that is long, long time ago. i think we need to be mindful of the possibilities or the options for farmers who need it. i am looking in the gallery here and when i go into a garden centre anywhere in europe, i see wall-to-wall glyphosate products because gardeners across europe use this product. this is a debate that is worth having. monsanto, i think, is on trial here and i am happy for monsanto to be on trial, as is gm technology, but i do think we need to be careful about the other issues and agencies that are on trial here: the food safety agency and the chemicals agency. we do have to have trust in these agencies. i would be deeply troubled if this chamber became the authorisation place for any product, but i do believe that this chamber should be where we debate these issues. and that is why i welcome the debate but i am concerned about some of the comments that have been made. this is an important part of the technology, as has been said, that farmers use. if i believed that there was a problem, i would call for a ban as well. however, the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) is out of step with all of the other agencies that have looked at this product and we need to acknowledge that. so perhaps commissioner, when we analyse the information you have given us and follow up, as many of us will, with some questions, there will be greater clarity on this issue. however, i think many of us come to this debate with closed minds; mine is slightly open, to science.
mr president, i have listened to this debate. i heard miriam dalli outline the case against glyphosate and i listened to the commissioner very carefully when he answered. i think that on balance the commissioner is correct. because if one reputable agency said glyphosate was safe, then you would be inclined to say: this is an independent agency saying it is safe, so you should go along with it. but when two agencies say it is safe, then i think to actually go against them, and especially to ask for a ban, does not make much sense to me. i have spoken to many farmers, horticulturists, etc. about this, and they are deeply concerned. before you talk about any ban, you should have an impact assessment on what the effects are going to be. are we going to allow the weeds to destroy the village farmers’ crops? the same for the horticulturists, the same for our gardens when glyphosate has been used for many decades and, to all intents and purposes, seems to be safe. we have, of course, to take public concerns into consideration. we have to allay people’s fears. but we can do so in a practical and logical manner. as the commissioner pointed out, it is not just european agencies, agencies around the world have said similarly. so i think that this is an overreaction. we certainly have to be careful, we certainly have to be prudent and we have to allay, as i said, people’s fears. but in relation to monsanto, they do not own the rights any more. they produce it, there is a company in ireland that produces it and sells it, and they have been doing it for many years. are we going to suddenly say: ‘sorry folks, fold up the tent, your business is gone’? that is not the way to go ahead.
mr president, at next week’s council there will be a new irish face around the table – and a new face of ireland, perhaps. today, the taoiseach enda kenny hands over that office to leo varadkar, and i take this opportunity to wish our new taoiseach, our new party leader, well in his work ahead, and also to acknowledge the great work of enda kenny as leader of our country in very difficult times. yesterday there were tributes paid to him, and the most remarkable comments were the simplest and nicest ones – about his sunny disposition, his optimism in dark times, and how that is so needed in politics today. that disposition was undented by six years in office, as i say, in very difficult times. he spoke about the honour that he had of leading our country, and i hope that our new leader will carry that same optimistic disposition and work for a united europe. his last call was to theresa may to warn her about a brexit that would damage the good friday agreement. we should honour his words, his commitment to peace and his commitment to europe. i salute his work, and i wish our new leader every success.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, what we are talking about is the contribution that agriculture, transport and construction have to make to climate change. the issue is how much of a contribution can be made, particularly by agriculture, because the council conclusions of 2014 recognise the low mitigation potential of the sector and, indeed, the paris agreement talks about the food security issue and the vulnerability of agriculture to the adverse impacts of climate change. i was concerned about the targets that ireland, in particular, would have to reach under this agreement, but i supported the report because of the overall thrust of its direction: that all sectors have to contribute. i count on the negotiations to take out the most difficult aspects of this from an irish point of view, so that we can keep forging ahead with a sustainable food supply chain, supplying our eu customers and global customers.
mr president, it is important that we meet the paris objectives, particularly in light of the statements recently by president trump, and i do not think anybody disputes our commitment under the paris agreement to binding annual greenhouse gas emissions and how we are going to reduce those. as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, i was involved on behalf of the ppe in preparing our input into today’s important vote. but i think we should take note of the different positions that member states have, the different structures of their economies and their varying capacity to meet those targets. i therefore supported amendments, that unfortunately were not accepted, seeking to ensure we have a more flexible and less punitive approach towards the greenhouse gas emissions reductions, and i acknowledge the many difficulties that many countries face after the financial crisis. the agricultural sector is particularly sensitive for ireland and we have raised this objection today, but overall i support the report and its implementation as we aim to meet our paris climate change objectives.
mr president, like my colleagues, i am totally in favour of the paris agreement and eu targets for 2030. however, we have a huge difficulty with the 2020 target setting, which was implemented here in parliament. for that reason, i tabled a split vote on that. it means that rather than starting on actual emissions, we had to start with a target which was not reachable, was not practical and which will now probably cost the irish taxpayer eur 1 billion to purchase compliance. we are starting a non-compliance method. this is not fair to us, and we have to make a stand on it and ensure that this is rectified in due course. it was only in the last minute, i think, that somehow the rapporteurs etc. got this point where ireland and other countries are concerned. starting in a non-compliant way, like we are, is like starting a 100 metres race where one person has to start 20 metres behind. it makes no sense, it is not fair, and it has to be amended. that is our biggest issue; we want that message to get across; we are totally in favour of reaching the 2020 targets otherwise.
mr president, it was a very difficult decision for me to abstain on this report and not to support it, because it contains many good proposals on the reduction of greenhouse gases. however, what has happened here is that we have let the best become the enemy of the good, in particular by setting a starting date of 2018 and not 2020, as proposed by the european commission. the starting point is critical, and pushing it back to 2018 could, as my colleague seán kelly has said, ensure an additional liability of eur 1 billion for ireland, and i simply could not support that proposal, because it is a bad proposal. i think what we have done here is to run counter to the paris agreement and the october 2014 agreement, which recognised the low mitigation potential of agriculture and that food production and food security are important elements in any proposal on climate change. i hope that in the negotiations the start date will be moved back to 2020 and we can get a good overall outcome.
mr president, i supported the report on the need for an eu—wide strategy to end and prevent a gender pension gap against the background that we have of an ageing population and the gap that already exists in the labour market and wages between men and women. women do need more financial security, particularly in their later years. as we know, there is a wage gap of about 15% – or 14%, depending on the country – which manifests itself in terms of pension payments of 34%. so it needs to be addressed, and i am encouraged that the report manages to respect that there is a subsidiarity issue here but outlines a number of recommendations that need to be acted on. we need to look at statistical tools to clearly determine the reasons for the gap, focus on inequalities and the ability to make pension contributions and, of course, look at opportunities to create labour market conditions that are favourable for women to participate at work, also encouraging the member states to look at repercussions and the way in which their pension systems are organised. all in all, i think it is a balanced report, putting forward the need to ensure that we do have an eu strategy to address the gender pay gap.
mr president, i, too, was happy to support this report on the gender pension gap. in particular, i support the call for the commission to include pension reforms in the country-specific recommendations, and these reforms should include measures that relate to women’s participation in the workforce: work—life balance and the care of children and dependants, because that will help to reduce the gender pension gap. the commission’s own proposals on work-life balance, which include a directive on carers’ leave, on parental leave, and also on flexibility in the workplace, will help to ensure work-life balance, and that in turn will help to narrow the gender pay gap and the gender pension gap, which stand at approximately 14% and 34% respectively in ireland. crucially, i also support the need for measures to ensure that women’s pay and entitlements, including pensions, are in line with the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value for men and women. that taken with the work-life balance, i think will help to make significant inroads into the gender pension gap.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mme president, today in ireland a new irish taoiseach was elected, leo varadka, and i want to wish him every success. one of the key issues he has highlighted for ireland is this investment gap, which is so evident across many member states but especially in member states that have gone through a financial crisis – a gap of about 20% in ireland. i want to agree with commissioner moscovici when he said very clearly that efsi must be a success for every member state in every part of our european union, and we must do much more to promote the opportunities that efsi can advance in economies right the way across the european union. in ireland, because of this investment gap, we need to do much more in drawing down funds and lending opportunities from efsi. last year about eur 800 million was lent by the eib to ireland, but only a small percentage of that was in efsi. i believe the irish government should set a very clear target of being able to get lending opportunities of over eur 5 billion over the course of the efsi plan for new lending opportunities in ireland, and i also think we should look again at how we use the pillar banks to obtain lending opportunities to small businesses, especially in ireland. the key aspect of efsi, its genius, is the idea that we can underscore and underwrite the risk factor that frequently does not allow investment to go into new business and to new lending opportunities. that is what makes efsis so useful, and that’s what we need to continue to support for jobs, investment and growth.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president, who welcomes investment to create jobs, is keen to have a ball and will be efsi 2 so locking in the first place. now that we've gotten a pledge of about 10 billion more as a budget, what's the most important benefit of that? certes, the focus is on the right use of the n-usáid: investments in more countries go with a geárchéim económica acu, a plan to be trade-oriented, focused on social aspects. what's the matter? where is the social value? we had to make a difference, but you still made a difference. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. we would rather face the challenge of housing, social equity, and the challenges of the environment than the challenge of the world, which is the only way to do it. we cannot focus on just one thing, the budget will be reduced to nothing after brexit and the ball will be in our court. the first efsi was promised to be invested in social partnerships; this was the aim of the first efsi. i don't know what you're talking about. no one is likely to have any money in the bank. brabus does not marry more than a society that sells gold. when will social europe be created? it is an unfortunate situation that the regime is going to be solved and now we are going to have to accept the fact that we are not going to have social relations again.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the uachtaráin, as a result of the act, is clearly going to have a period of uncertainty as to the laws that will be enacted in each member state by the council. it is our duty to ensure that the laws are enforced, especially in the medium term. even if we were not happy with our partnership, economic measures would still have to be taken, so it is important to have a fairly thorough examination of each investment. the aim of these achievements should be to realise the benefits to the public sector and to ensure that such strategies are put into practice. the commission has developed a strategy to enable information and education levels to be developed in the member states. they must be brought under control in the member states through the strategic sector currently in place to ensure that technological development, especially in our economies, is more effective and, as a result, more efficient than ever before.
madam president, the european union is all about peace and prosperity, and we have thankfully had peace on the continent for 60 years now. prosperity has come in fits and starts: the recession obviously meant that an awful lot of people went below the poverty threshold. it is very sad for that to happen, especially in relation to young people. as has been pointed out, the consequences of child poverty is that a child does not get the opportunity to reach their potential. all of us here have had the opportunity to reach our potential; many, many children in europe, and indeed across the world, do not have that opportunity. so it is incumbent on us – and it is good that we are debating this tonight – to ensure that we can do whatever we can to give them that opportunity. maybe, in 30 years’ time, when we have another display out here on erasmus, many of the children who are in poverty now might be lifted out of it and benefit from the erasmus programme as well.
madam president, on the day when we see the end of roaming, it is good to be discussing the digital economy and the next steps forward to make europe the world leader into the future in this whole area. having been involved as a rapporteur for the data protection regulation, i am slightly worried that we might go too far and not get the balance right. i am just looking at some of the proposals in the privacy directive, and i think they are gold—plating some of the balanced proposals we had in the general data protection regulation (gdpr). the same goes for platforms: we have got to get this right so that the economy can grow and so that consumers are protected, and all the other things mentioned by colleagues, like paying tax, b2b, etc., all have to be done properly, because the digital single market is our way forward in europe. if we can get it right, maybe the united kingdom might want to stay, or at least come back in again.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 15 june 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the taxation of ports (2017/2704(rsp)).
madam president, i come from the island of ireland, and we have many great ports in my own constituency. we have ports like rosslare, waterford, cork and shannon foynes, which is one of the most naturally deep-water ports in the world. our ports have a huge role to play as our economy develops into the future, and also indeed in even tackling climate change, where you should utilise them more to carry cargo and get it off the roads. i think the commissioner has some worries about taxation and some ports across europe. i was pleased to hear him say that the information he has gathered so far is confidential – that is the way it should be. it is very important that this will be broadened, that there will be discussion with the member states involved and that all ports across europe may be looked at so that we establish a level playing field and that one does not feel discriminated against the other – that is a very important issue. gathering all the information across europe and then making it available would be the best way to progress.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on statute and funding of european political parties and foundations (2017/2733(rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 15 june 2017. written statements (rule 162)
madam president, i listened to mr reul’s answer to the question by mr bütikofer and i think it made sense, because there is a tendency – especially in this mandate – for parliament, whenever the commission makes a proposal, to have to change it, be it good or bad. we have to go either above or below what the commission says. sometimes this does not make sense, and i think we have to look at it, especially if we want to grow industry in europe, to do what is practical, and not to be overburdening them with all sorts of regulations, etc., that are unnecessary. the second point i would make is that talent is vital as well. recently, borgwarner in the town where i live, close to tralee in ireland, expanded. they said that the reason they did so was that the local institute of technology (it) was producing the talent they needed. we have to support the its in particular, in order to bring the talent that is needed for the industries of the future.
madam president, the disregard for the fundamental right of freedom of expression demonstrated by the azerbaijani government, as evidenced in the case of afgan mukhtarli, is an issue of great concern to both my colleagues and me in the european parliament, as is evidenced by this resolution and the speeches made by colleagues here this morning. afgan mukhtarli’s abduction and imprisonment is a clear violation of international law, and it is crucial that the azerbaijani government be held accountable. the alleged involvement of georgian officials in this case must also be scrutinised in terms of respect for fundamental rights and the integrity of government, especially as he fled there and finished up in baku. that was some safe haven in tbilisi. looking forward, the safeguarding of freedom of the press and freedom of expression should be prioritised as a central facet to the future of eu—azerbaijani relations. dá bhrí sin, a uachtaráin, caithfimid gach iarracht a dhéanamh chun an sprioc sin a bhaint amach agus brú níos mó a chur ar rialtas na hasarbaiseáine chun mukhtarli a ligean saor láithreach bonn agus más féidir sin a dhéanamh, beidh jab maith déanta againn.
mr gollnisch has raised a point of order, and then i will give you the floor, bear with me.
please, colleagues, may i have order? mr gollnisch, i will close your microphone now and i will respond. mr gollnisch, please listen to the chair. mr gollnisch is referring to our first vote, which we will get to presently. i will reply to your concerns. mr ehler, you have a point as well. please raise it now.
thank you, mr ehler. we all support your kind and important remarks. i refer now to the question about immunity and i will read the rules. rule 9(6) provides that the member concerned is given the opportunity to be heard by the committee responsible and the member concerned – and we will vote shortly – was invited twice to appear before the committee, but did not accept either of those invitations.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the proposal is to postpone the vote. would anyone like to speak against the proposal?
i am asking whether there is anyone in the chamber who wishes to speak against. you have the floor.
that concludes the vote.
i voted in favour of this report in the light of the hard work that the rapporteurs, ms virkkunen and mr juvin, have done to evaluate the issues central to the consolidation of online platforms and a digital single market in the european union. i welcome the report’s thorough appraisal of innovative opportunities and regulatory challenges in this sphere. essentially, the report also evaluates the digital transformation of europe in terms of the collaborative economy and the transparent processing of data across digital platforms. by identifying the means of responding to these challenges we can bolster the digital single market and the competitiveness of our markets for the future. i wish to note the vital contributions of my colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy towards the finalisation of this report. i am pleased to voice my support, and i am expecting smes and citizens to benefit as we create a digital single market.
i think it is a matter for the citizens of europe to decide whether or not to take part in the fight against hiv, tb and hcv in europe. but from what we've heard, we don't know what they're saying. rud is an-soiléir ná go dtéann sé hand le hand le bochtannas. he is a very good player. as the european union prepares to celebrate thanksgiving, we should all try to find strategies to help people cope with their problems and help them to cope with their illnesses; they should be able to get air and medicine at reasonable costs. is everybody going to back off on drugs in a big way?
mr president, i am interested in all the talk about ‘small’ because i come from a small country. we have held the presidency a number of times in our involvement in the european union since 1973, and i think our last presidency was deemed very successful. it does prove that small countries can have very successful presidencies if they take it seriously, put in the resources and utilise the back-up that is available. i think malta did that very effectively and they are to be complimented on their dedication and on their practicality. one thing that happened during their presidency – they cannot claim full credit for it but it will always be recorded as happening during their presidency – was the end of roaming charges. they got it over the line, made sure it happened, and it is for the benefit of all europeans. it just shows that, whether a country is small or big, once we put our resources together and work together we can be successful for all europeans. malta is a perfect example and well done to them.
the next item is the report by hugues bayet and evelyn regner, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2013/34/eu as regards disclosure of income tax information by certain undertakings and branches (com(2016)0198 – c8—0146/2016 – 2016/0107(cod)) (a8—0227/2017).
madam president, everyone wants the corporates to pay more tax and be more transparent in their activities. in ireland’s case the total take from corporation tax has doubled in the past three years, now representing 15% of the total tax take, as against the oecd average of 10%. the international tax agenda under the oecd’s base erosion and profit shifting (beps) process is working, and actions taken by the eu have reduced the opportunities for aggressive tax planning by large corporates. ireland supports country-by-country tax reporting by multinationals. since 2015 there is an objective for companies to report to irish revenue their tax profit and turnover figures on a country-by-country basis, although this information is not out in the public. i believe the public have a right to know: a right to know what business activity a company is involved with, its number of employees, its turnover, and its profits before and after tax. it is good that this information is to be publicly disclosed, but it needs to be done in a sensible way. we must not give other regions of the world an advantage over the european union. this is a globalised economy that does not play by the same rules. our response must not be to make our businesses – businesses that employ millions and millions of europeans – more disadvantaged. that is not transparency. there is much agreement across this parliament on the measures to be taken. there is still some disagreement on the question of the safety clause. i believe that the outcome from the committee on economic and monetary affairs in agreeing to a safety clause that requires national and commission agreement and oversight is a better starting point, and i would encourage all members of this house to support and back that.
madam president, public country—by—country reporting is the single most important action that we can take to lift the veil on profit shifting by multinationals which results, as we know, in eur 500 billion in tax being lost each year. so we need to get it right. limiting the proposal to companies with a turnover of more than eur 750 million excludes 85% of multinationals; it should apply to those making more than eur 40 million. we need to demand that companies report the full breakdown of their figures in each country – not only in eu states and countries on a future eu tax blacklist, which we know will be a very limited list. it is appalling, i have to say, that conservative groups in this house have introduced a so—called ‘safeguard clause’ on this global breakdown. this is a loophole you could drive a truck through. and make no mistake, its purpose is to continue to allow profit shifting to tax havens to go unhindered. the only people with anything to fear from tax transparency are tax cheats and their cheerleaders, so why – the question needs to be asked – are you helping them?
madam president, the principle that everybody should pay their fair share of tax is undeniable and applies to individuals as well as big corporations. but we have seen in the past that big corporations will use every loophole to avoid paying tax so it is up to us, as legislators, to close those loopholes and that has been done at oecd level and within the european union. this is a global problem and, speaking as a member of the pana committee, we can see that it needs a global response. one area we have to be careful about is having legislation that would disadvantage companies with headquarters within the european union as opposed to those outside the european union. i think that is something we have to be careful about. country—by—country reporting is important – as mr karas and others have said – but i think that we have to look at the bigger picture as well. the only way to tackle this is a bit like with climate change: a global agreement with the same rules applying across the globe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
madam president, the fishing community is one that has faced growing pressures from a multitude of factors in recent years, including pollution, climate change and overfishing, which make it increasingly difficult for fishermen to earn a reliable income. due to the diversification of the fishing industry to include other activities, such as fisheries—related tourism, communities that rely on their fishing industry will hopefully be revitalised and incomes will be stabilised. coming from a country like ireland, where fisheries have always played a vital role in coastal communities – and indeed the wider economy – i am pleased to support this proposal, which will re-energise the fishing industry at a europe-wide level and, hopefully, create jobs. in view of the decision at the weekend by the united kingdom government to withdraw from the london fisheries convention and, inter alia, the common fisheries policy, the fishing industry certainly needs new markets and new measures.
madam president, i voted in favour of this proposal, which will support consumer rights through the improvement of product lifespan and by increasing the reparability of products through guarantees and increasing the accessibility of spare parts. consumers must be protected from the growing trend of planned obsolescence, something that has become particularly prevalent in the software industry, and they should be assured of a reasonable product lifespan. by establishing minimum resistance criteria, this proposal will lead to longer-lasting products and will benefit both consumers and companies. in voting for this proposal, we are protecting the rights of the consumer and supporting the development of a functioning economy. our message is: repair rather than replace, old is often better than new, and save rather than lose. well done to you on your chairing of today’s session, and have a good time in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his paper and to convey my apologies, as i listened to part of your contribution, commissioner, because another meeting, on brexit and the budget, beckoned. so we were linked, but not in the same room. i have studied this paper and i am happy that you have set out scenarios that are not all pessimistic, because i was concerned – certainly as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development i was concerned – that the narrative in this debate was about taking money from the common agricultural policy and giving it to new areas or to other policy areas. i think that the idea of robbing peter to pay paul is unhelpful. it is very unhelpful to say to the rural parts of europe that they must lose funds to other policy areas. there are some interesting ideas in this paper, and some challenging ideas too around possible reforms of the common agricultural policy, including the distribution of payments, and some food for thought around how we will design a policy that meets the challenges of climate change and biodiversity and delivery. but let us not forget the income challenge in agriculture and in rural areas. it is frankly enormous, so this paper is really important. we also need to hear from the commission, and i think commissioner hogan will be delivering on the commitment on sustainable food supply chains, and on action to tackle unfair trading practices. so i think we are making progress – and thank you, commissioner. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – if i understand the question, i suppose my answer would be that i agree with you. i think that, in a world where we have more demands and more policy areas that need support and we are concerned about existing areas including rural communities, then we do need more resources. but i also think we have to answer as to how money is spent. the commissioner makes the point very strongly in this paper that we have to demonstrate added value, so it is incumbent on us here in the house to show that our policies, which we defend, do add value.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the uachtaráin, is iad tosaíochtaí lárnacha of the bhuiséad 2018 ná cruthú fás eacnamaíochta inbhuanaithe; poist mhaithe, chobhsaí agus dardchaighdeán; comhtháthú socheacnamaíochta; an imirce agus ár ndualgais dhaonnúla; mar aon le aghaidh to thabhairt ar climatic change. the president of the republic, in his capacity as president of the council, shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget and shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget. is ceart bunúsach is an imeascadh sóisialta i gcomthéacs an chruacháis ina bhfuil go leor inimirceach agus ní mór aghaidh a thabhairt orthu agus acmhainní mar ba chuí a chur ar fáil i mbuiséad 2018? is ceart bunúsach an imeascadh sóisialta i gcomthéacs an chruacháis ina bhfuil go leor inimirceach agus ní mór aghaidh a thabhairt orthu agus acmhainní mar ba chuí a chur ar fáil i mbuiséad 2018? is ceart bunúsach an imeascadh sóisialta i gcomthéacs an chruacháis ina bhfuil go leor inimirceach agus ní mór aghaidh a thabhairt orthu agus acmhainní mar ba chuí a chur ar fáil i mbuiséad 2018? is ceart bunúsach an imeascadh sóisialta i gcomthéacs an chruacháis ina bhfuil go leor inimirceach agus ní mór aghaidh a thabhairt orthu agus agus acmhainní mar ba chuí a chur ar fáil i mbuiséad 2018? without any laws, there are specific measures to be taken by the laws in the regions, especially in ireland, which have been granted the right to vote in the uk by the european union. the eib and the efsi are jointly invested in the european investment bank. a public investment plan should be put in place to help the eu achieve its strategic and structural objectives, and to provide a high level of value for money, the public sector, the environment and society in general. the commission, as a member of sinn féin, has strongly opposed any effort to use its resources to support the eu military in the search for a head of state. in the eu and nato, we will be strongly opposed to any leaning towards a common european identity. should go dtabharfadh buiséad 2018 air do dhaoine atá faoi bhrú in ionad féiríní a thabhairt do chuideachtaí ollmhóra no arm ollmhór a chruthú ar mhaithe le lucht an rachmais. (they should go to the air of the people who are under the government instead of the big companies who have no big arms to create the big companies.) caithfimid to be real because air is so and face to face to give air in people go that are geargha with laws.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the election of saudi arabia as a member of the un commission on the status of women is akin to something that you would read in a parody publication. at least three, possibly five, eu countries voted in favour of this shameful position – voted for a country where women are effectively legal minors their entire lives, where they require a male guardian’s approval to travel, to attend education, to access some health care. shame on those member states! a freedom of information request from me to the irish department of foreign affairs was refused, but it did show a flurry of email activity on the matter. ireland is like the others who chose to hide behind the excuse of the secret ballots. but then, in ireland, women’s rights and dirty secrets are nothing new. but what possible justification could there be for eu member states to endorse the world’s leading oppressor of women now as a promoter of gender equality? in one word: trade!
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the presentation of the programme of activities of the estonian presidency (2017/2659(rsp)). i give a very warm welcome to the prime minister of estonia, mr ratas, who is now president-in-office of the council.
president ratas, thank you for a very comprehensive and ambitious programme that we in parliament certainly look forward to working on with you, and if i may say, the fine choice of poet that you quoted. and i remember – if i may be indulged – he also said, ‘there is no such thing as innocent bystanding’, and perhaps we might remember that.
i'm talking to martina anderson today, a colleague who can't be with us tomorrow. it is an easton, like ireland, which has suffered as a result of activities to deal with the sea. we need to look at the history of the military and how they lived their lives. in ireland, we are now facing the same situation as our fellow countrymen who voted to leave the eu in february. glacadh an vóta gained no attention to thabhairt don the processóchána in éirinn nor gained no attention to an eiginnteacht shóisialta agus eacnamaíochta which is ag ag cnagadh ar dhoras mhuintir in éirinn. there has been a great change in europe in our lifetime, and now again, there is a great change in our direction. in 1991, the eu was able to support small countries, like ours, which were suffering from problems in their trade. the eu must now support more laws in the difficulty of getting to know each other better. the eu must take the first step in providing support to most of the people in the north who want to remain in the european union and the eu must support the stages of integration.
mr szanyi, i know you wish to ask a question but i am going to make a ruling that we will not have blue cards because of our time constraints, so thank you for your understanding.
madam president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to the chamber. as prime minister of a small country – a country similar in size to ireland – i wish you luck. as a young prime minister who hopefully has a long life ahead of him, you will be looking at a long life ahead in the eu no doubt. within that context, i have a question to ask you about the white paper on the future of europe. we were told on 1 march by jean—claude juncker that we would have a series of ‘future of europe’ debates in cities and regions around europe. i have asked donald tusk about these debates. he didn’t answer me. i asked commissioner hogan about these debates. he told me that maybe he could organise them himself. i have asked jean-claude juncker about them. if i stood on a cat’s tail, i would have got a more logical answer. can you tell me, prime minister, when and where these debates are going to take place or is it the case at this stage – as is said around ireland – that it isn’t the white paper on the future of europe, it is the invisible paper on the future of europe.
thank you, prime minister ratas, and you have our good wishes and support. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the european union is a global player in the field of education. the president, in his report on the choice of culture and ideas, wants to see this report incorporated into sdg 4, education and citizenship. there is always a need for sustainable development in our cities, so it is important that we take care of our neighbours as well. i have no reason to believe that public transport is any different from other forms of transport. the aim is to make education accessible to those who do not have the means to access it and to develop their education and culture. there is a lot of money to be made available to them, especially in the creative sector. civil rights are concerned with matters of education and culture and are open to all. failure to do so will require monitoring of the air and sea to be carried out as soon as possible. we must be more aware of sustainable development in practice, as we want to ensure that all citizens are informed about the development ahead.
mr president, very briefly, i want to ask you: what is your policy on blue cards for this debate? are you going to allow one or two blue cards after every speaker, and how much time have you allocated to the debate?
mr president, it is obvious that having two seats for the european parliament is both illogical and unsustainable. could you imagine if every school in europe met in one location for three weeks of the month and then went off a couple of hundred miles away for one week every month? people do not understand this, and it needs to change. i would ask my good french colleagues to look at the situation and, if they are sincere about a single seat, let us decide on a single seat first and then decide whether that seat is brussels or strasbourg. i would also appeal to the french, who played such an honourable and central part in the cop 21 climate summit in paris. how can they be so proud of that and, at the same time, condone and wish to continue a situation where 19 000 tons of co2 are emitted every year unnecessarily? it is time for change.
madam president, this is a tragedy of enormous proportions, which i think drew the sympathy of all europeans and, indeed, people worldwide. it is only when you know somebody involved that it really comes home to you. the day before the tragedy in portugal i met people on the european union interreg programme in my home town of killarney, and the following day i heard that the entire family of one of the ladies on that programme had been wiped out. so obviously it is rather chilling to be aware of that, and it is so important as well that the european union should show solidarity with these people, and indeed those who suffer from all types of tragedies, especially when caused by climate change. that is something we are trying to deal with. mr van nistelrooij’s point about the solidarity fund both to help in the immediate aftermath and also to help with prevention in the future, especially in relation to forest fires, is very important.
madam president, it’s a funny old world, isn’t it? on the one hand, we have people who pay little or no tax and, on the other hand, we are talking tonight about people who are subject to double taxation. thankfully, both the committee on economic and monetary affairs – and colleagues here like mr theurer – and the commission are beginning to come to grips with it. that is the way it should be. we passed legislation yesterday on tax avoidance and country—by—country reporting, which will help to close the loopholes allowing big multinationals to escape paying most of the tax they should have paid – and that is good. but, equally importantly, people should not be paying more tax than they are due to pay. it is rather extreme that there is eur 10.5 billion in dispute at the moment and 900 cases, but i think we are beginning to move in the right direction on this. the commission has come forward with a proposal which everybody accepts is good. that should be promoted because it shows that the european union is trying to be fair to everybody, and rightly so. so well done, commissioner.
madam president, as a member of the asean delegation and rapporteur for the epp on the singapore agreement, i obviously have a keen interest in this topic. i must say, like other speakers, i was a bit disappointed a few years ago when this was referred to the ecj because i thought it was a bit unfair on the people of singapore, but thankfully it has worked out quite well, and indeed great credit is due to the singaporean authorities for their patience in this regard. two weeks ago i had the pleasure of meeting their trade minister here, also their ambassador to the european union, and last weekend in dublin i met the ambassador to ireland. they are very enthusiastic about this, they are very understanding of the european union’s position, but now we look forward to the implementation of the agreement. that is the first thing the commission will have to do, to try and get this implemented as soon as possible. they have got their clarity now regarding isds. indeed the commission is working on a new framework for that and i agree completely with the last speaker, ms hautala, that if the member states are to be involved in future, they are involved at the early stages, as soon as possible, and not to be allowed to hold up agreements as we have seen in the past, especially in relation to ceta. so this is actually a good result, provided the commission has the courage to take the result in their hands and do what they are being given the competence to do and make trade work for european citizens.
the uachtaráin, is an eiritré an tír is measured in the world in terms of human rights and is said to be measured more than in the year. all things are possible, especially women and children, and those who are not able to go to school. 400,000 people have left the country. freisin, regarding the dawit isaak, gabhadh is in 2001. have you been drinking? we don't know, but we know that there are real people out there who are afraid of the cold. freisin was betrayed by patriarch antonios. he's been in prison since 2007 instead of being told he has no legal recourse. so i think we should give him some money to give to eiritré. we are giving them €200 million and i think we should wait until we have answers to these questions.
madam president, the issue of human-rights violations in eritrea is a serious issue, but it is no more serious than the situation in a whole host of countries in africa that we continue to support. i think it is very important that, in this motion, we once again send a clear message to the eritrean government in relation to those human-rights violations. unlike other colleagues, i still believe that engagement with eritrea is important. it is a country caught in a time warp. it is a country that needs to understand the obligations under international law that we, as eu citizens, demand. that is why i went to eritrea last year. i suspect that i am the only member of this assembly speaking here today who has actually been to eritrea in the past 12 months. i would ask other colleagues to do the same because it is only through engagement that we can actually change policy in eritrea. it is only through reaching out that we can change policy in eritrea. i want to put on the record that the eu funds that have come through the development budget have made a big difference to the lives of ordinary people – ordinary eritreans – in terms of solar power, electricity connectivity, building capacity within the judicial system and in other systems of government. it is important that we remain committed to funding eritrea and that we have a more balanced approach in this whole debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i must say that i am deeply concerned to learn of the growing conflict in burundi following the unconstitutional re—election of president pierre nkurunziza in 2015 and his intention to be re-elected again in 2020 and probably ad infinitum. the deplorable human-rights situation and the authorities’ continued violation of fundamental rights are totally unacceptable. i therefore strongly support calls for the burundian authorities to address these violations and to conduct an independent inquiry so that the perpetrators can be held accountable. furthermore, burundi must revoke its move to withdraw from the international criminal court and must extend full support to the office of the un high commissioner for human rights so as to ensure fundamental rights for all its citizens, because the abuses of fundamental rights – the murder, rape, abduction, etcetera – in burundi are absolutely chronic and must be stopped.
mr president, the un sustainable development goals (sdgs) influence virtually every aspect of the eu’s work. the global 2030 agenda represents a commitment to achieving sustainable development by 2030 worldwide – a commitment that must be shared by all countries. the aims of this agenda are to work towards human dignity, stability, a healthy planet, fair and resilient societies and prosperous economies. the eu shares these goals and therefore i voted in favour of this motion. by embedding the targets of the sdgs in the framework of eu policies, the eu will ensure that adherence to the aims of the sdgs is a key part of future policy initiatives. in doing so, we are ensuring that the eu will successfully deliver on the 2030 agenda. finally, mr president, may i compliment you on the efficient and calm manner in which you chaired today’s session, contrary to what was said by one or two speakers. they were a tiny minority. the round of applause said it all.
mr president, with regard to the brazilian beef scandal i listened very carefully to the commissioner and i would summarise my reaction in two words: sincere, but naive. sincerely he wants to ensure there are guarantees from the brazilian authorities, but naively so because those beef barons, as mr eck pointed out, are never going to change, we have seen that. and we should be doing the same as the us and china: banning brazilian beef and other products from coming into europe instead of going along and looking for guarantees which we will never be able to ensure are there. secondly, it amazes me that at this time we are also going ahead with a mercosur deal and we know that the main reason for the mercosur deal for these countries is to send meat into europe at a time when the cap budget is under enormous pressure. there will be an 11 billion deficit because of the united kingdom withdrawing. there will be a glut of products in europe as a result, and yet we are talking about doing a mercosur trade deal. if we do so, we should leave meat products out of it.
madam president, i think the paris agreement has had the effect of creating more awareness amongst member states, businesses, individuals, of the part they need to play in meeting our commitments. i think the agricultural sector is a case in point. a couple of weeks ago i attended an open day in my own country, in gurteen college, called ‘energy in agriculture’, where the amount of innovation that is taking place in relation to trying to reduce emissions and create renewable energies in agriculture was breathtaking. forestry is a case in point. i think the important aspect is that, while we all know it is a carbon sink and the forests can be used for various products – especially for renewable energy – once we have a policy of increasing (not decreasing) the amount of land under forestry, we can work everything out from there.
madam president, i listened very carefully to what the rapporteur had to say and i think, by and large, it was a very balanced and sensible contribution. as a member of the inta committee, i take a huge interest in trade, and trade is very important, because if you produce a good, you must sell it, and obviously, if you are the european union, being able to make trade deals around the world has had a huge positive impact overall on the economy in all our member states. the korean agreement is probably the best, being hugely successful, growing exports by almost 50 per cent in the space of four years. but where there are problems, as the rapporteur pointed out, they must be looked at and dealt with in package with all the other issues. so i think the solution is to go ahead and have our trade agreements, but look at the downside and consult with the stakeholders to ensure that any negative aspects are minimised.
madam president, i think my colleague mr zver, the rapporteur, ticked all the boxes in relation to this very important topic. indeed, i remember when i came here first as an mep in 2009, i was struck by the emphasis, in the committee on culture and education in particular, on lifelong learning. it is a concept that is well established now and recognised by almost everybody: you just have to keep on learning to keep up to speed. you could be an expert today, but should you not keep up to speed on what is happening in your chosen area, you could be out of date tomorrow. i think that distance learning and technological improvements, etc., are a major challenge, not just to individuals, but also to third-level institutions, to be able to provide the expertise that is needed to keep up with what is happening in the world. i also think it is very important that emphasis is put on people with disabilities and people from the lower socio-economic areas. everybody is entitled to education, and everybody is entitled to have lifelong learning.
madam president, i read with great interest the recent position papers on brexit that were released by the united kingdom government and, indeed, i followed the latest round of negotiations closely. allow me to state the obvious, which is that something is evidently missing: solutions. one area in particular, in which solutions are needed quickly, is the ireland-northern ireland border. the referendum was 15 months ago but i have yet to read anything really concrete on the border issue. what is the holdup? does the united kingdom take its citizens in northern ireland seriously? the time for buzzwords is over. i have lost count of how many times i have read in the position papers buzzwords like ‘streamlined’, ‘innovative’, and ‘imaginative solutions’ for the borders of the united kingdom, but without any details of what these solutions would look like. this is bureaucratic speak for ‘we haven’t a clue’. the onus is on the united kingdom to come up with something substantive and workable, that does not put a hard border back on the island of ireland. the united kingdom made a decision to leave; now it must solve the problem it has caused for ireland.
the next item is the report by mr carlos zorrinho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the promotion of internet connectivity in local communities (com(2016)0589 – c8-0378/2016 – 2016/0287(cod)) (a8-0181/2017).
madam president, let me start by saying that this is a genuinely excellent initiative and is yet another example of the value of the eu. i congratulate colleagues zorrinho and sander for the work they have put into bringing this forward. internet access for all citizens is crucially important and this means that nobody should be excluded, particularly because they happen to live in rural areas. rural growth is dependent on increased connectivity, and wifi4eu will help in this regard and perhaps be a blueprint for similar bigger initiatives. with this initiative, we take one of the needed steps to reduce the digital divide by putting wifi terminals in public spaces. this simple and fast financing mechanism can deliver high-quality internet quite quickly and i welcome its potential to revitalise rural communities. as a representative of the ireland south constituency, this is particularly relevant to me. parts of my constituency still see some of the lowest broadband speeds in ireland, with our average speeds being around half of those found in dublin. examples can be seen in places like murroe in limerick, dromahane in cork, clonmore in carlow and cahir in tipperary, all of which have to put up with internet speeds that are way below what is acceptable. while the wifi4eu is not the ultimate solution for such areas, it would at least be a help. i hereby invite irish communities with poor connectivity to get their applications in for this great new initiative and reap the benefits of this excellent eu initiative, and thus make their areas more attractive to live in, more attractive for investors, and stem the tide of rural decline.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on measures to safeguard the security of gas supply (com(2016)0052 – c8-0035/2016 – 2016/0030(cod)) (a8-0310/2016).
mr president, i welcome this very important piece of legislation which we are voting on today. without a doubt, energy security is vital for europe, for industrial competitiveness, and for investment. i think that as a result of this legislation we will see greater cooperation between member states, which is part and parcel of what the european union is all about. i also welcome the regional approach taken here, but i am concerned about my own country, ireland, because by the mid-2020s – when the united kingdom is out of the eu – we will be dependent on them for 95% of our gas. this will mean we will be geographically cut off from the eu system and exposed to united kingdom price shocks. however, there are projects in the pipeline such as shannon lng, which i am very familiar with. others are mentioned as well, but shannon lng has the potential to help us have energy security. it has been a number of years in the pipeline, it has pca (pipeline construction authorisation) status, and by giving funding to it i think we can help it progress and ensure that post-brexit ireland will have security of supply.
i'd like to talk about this with my group this morning. it is important to have online access to all citizens of the union, with the exception of those who are not citizens of the union. for example, there are many places outside the country where you can go online for two hours a day, such as the main chat room - baile átha cliath. i don't know what that is like; therefore, i don't invest in it, i don't know what it is, but i'm not going to let you die on your own. is it possible to change the cabinet without a new scheme? i'm sorry, but i'm sorry that everyone who was involved in this scheme has been brought before us and i hope that the authorities in ireland will take part in this scheme.
president, i would first like to congratulate my friend, president jerzy buzek on his efforts to make this report known; and i would also like to encourage him to write laws on this matter. however, it is important that gas is available in all eu countries and that there are different ways of bringing it into all countries. therefore, in many cases, this will help to avoid a situation where there is no cooperation between the eu countries. it's going to be un-important. as for my own father, i doubt he'll be able to get back to the uk when he leaves the eu; i doubt he'll be able to get back to the uk when he's healthy. therefore, it is our chance to be lng to bring in gas in august, and pci is without don land and i hope that we can build it soon.
mr president, as a member of the committee on international trade, i fully understand that the global value chain is at the centre of the international economy, trade and investment policy, and i voted in favour of this report. the resulting innumerable networks involved in international production bring with them opportunities for development and employment, but also exposure to violations of human rights and regulations. the ‘trade for all’ communication prioritises effectiveness and transparency in trade policy and brings to the forefront the need to promote sustainable development, human rights and good governance in international trade. i welcome the eu’s many country—specific initiatives, which aim to secure human rights protection and transparency in the context of international trade, and i hope we can continue in this vein.
thank you, mr weber. we will look into that matter.
in writing. – i believe there is more to juncker’s vision for europe’s future than markets and fiscal rules, and that did shine through his speech. however, he has remained too beholden to the mess he inherited from the barroso era, when markets and finance ruled our continent, and their champions were put in charge of a mess of their own making. we were told we would face a lost decade if we did not put our taxpayers on the line to save the financial sector. yet a lost decade we had, but with a haemorrhage of public money and of our youth. the glimpses of optimism that shone through juncker’s speech, his last one with a full political year ahead of him at the commission’s helm, are overcast with dark clouds from far right populist quarters. we may have got some reprieve from the recent electoral cycle, but they are still lurking, ready to exploit the deterioration of basic social conditions for many, and to stoke fear and hatred against easy, vulnerable targets. what is more is that big business keeps on dodging tax, and the fiscal constraints imposed on very different economies, keep on tearing our social fabric and the sense of common purpose among the peoples of the eu.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as a member of the disability intergroup for the last 12 years, i and many colleagues in this house warmly welcome the publication of the accessibility act. i want to take this opportunity to thank our rapporteur, morten løkkegaard, for his commitment reaching a balanced text and ask colleagues to support alde amendments tomorrow. where we state that, first of all, member states should be obliged to include the built environment under the scope of the directive; where we include people with functional limitations when assessing the burden on businesses; and where we propose to delete amendment 78 to ensure the accessibility act will apply to other union acts such as public procurement and eu funds; we also wish to include smes within the scope of the act. is this proposal perfect? no it is not. but we have addressed the significant majority of the concerns of the disability forum. we also know that there will be resistance in council to these proposals, so we need to give parliament the strongest possible mandate tomorrow when they enter into negotiations.
mr president, i very much welcome the publication of the accessibility act. we have been hearing from many speakers today about the 80 million citizens that are not able or have limited abilities, and of course 120 million ageing people, and who knows which of us will not be able tomorrow, or may be disabled and requiring the very services and accessibility that we are discussing today. so now is the time to put in place a society that is accessible. we need to be bold and we need to be ambitious and recognise that citizens do need products and services and public spaces that are accessible to them, and that if we want to have an inclusive society, this is what we need to put in place. i am of the opinion that we need to send a strong message to the council and to the commission of what we want. we represent the citizens of europe here and the cost of accessibility should not be looked upon as a burden but rather, in my view, as an investment; an investment towards an inclusive and caring society.
the uachtaráin, won by one person, is the seat of the cláir erasmus. it shows you things that are happening in europe. many scholars have benefited from the influence of the church on society. the same should be the case for all students, and the work that is currently being done will be the subject of an erasmus+ programme aimed at those who are already studying. we have to face the enormous challenge we have in europe with regard to housing, especially in the cities. many young people have gained their faith, their faith and their resources by choosing to study with erasmus. the dual approach to the erasmus+ programme is to provide young people with the opportunity to learn about their own ideas. we'd rather give them a better life than create a future for them, so we'd better invest in providing it. clare erasmus must be available to all, north and south in ireland; and i am talking about the great mother in her field, as well as the great mother who is full of such human affairs.
mr president, can you please explain to this house under what provision in our rules is it permitted for an outside institution to intervene in a debate in the course of votes taking place? (applause)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the most important thing is that we have a debate. it is quite clear that there are members of this parliament who have something to be fearful of. let us just remind ourselves about what we saw yesterday: it was not clashes between police and protesters. what we saw was an eu member state using armed police to physically prevent people from exercising their right to vote. we need to ensure that the voice of this parliament is strong and robust and that we defend the rights of the people of catalonia and in turn defend the rights of democrats right across the european union.
the president, i want to speak tonight on the subject of human rights, so that i may be free. it is clear from the amount that was seen in the gur gur gur interpretation cumhachtach, daonlathach, so much was reifreann sa chatalóin. we are now the only parliament in catalonia. we can't forget the dramatic and scandalous events that were seen on the streets and in schools in catalonia in the past. and the laws of the european union cannot be used to make a strong message to the people of their own country. we cannot be afraid of the police in spain, of attacks on polling stations, of attacks on citizens when they are voting, of the scaling of the voting laws in the streets. is this a process of giving people the right to vote? i'm ashamed of you. we're going to have to go to spain to be able to do that. i'm sure you'd be surprised, but i'm sure it's hard to believe. the european union must fully support the efforts of the catalan authorities to achieve their independence.
madam president, this evening in the committee on agriculture and rural development there were votes on a mandate for trade with new zealand and australia, putting forward the concerns of the agriculture committee. while we do want europe to conclude trade agreements, we want it to be sensitive to the impact they can have on farmers in the european union. in that context there is deep concern, certainly among beef farmers in ireland, about the potential offer that the european union will make to the mercosur countries, and the figure being quoted is of 70 000 tons of tariff-rate quota for beef. this will have consequences not just for ireland but for livestock farmers across europe. what i would say to our trade commissioner, and indeed to all of the commissioners, is that they must look very carefully and calculate the combined impact of all these trade agreements on the agriculture sector. we have a common agricultural policy, we have a model of agriculture, and we need to defend it.
mr president, this resolution merely states the obvious, that insufficient progress has been made on the three key issues before us. but i want to accentuate the positive, and i think michel barnier, mr verhofstadt and others have said that there are welcome developments in the british prime minister’s speech. let me be very clear: on citizens’ rights, we can make progress because we have to. we cannot let people down. some of the banter in this debate will frighten citizens who are listening to it. so on that issue, let us make progress. on the issue of the financial settlement, there is a solution and that the uk will meet and honour its commitments. they are an honourable nation and i believe they will do that. but let me be very frank. i am the first member of the european parliament from the republic of ireland to speak. i listened with great respect to my colleagues from northern ireland who spoke here. nobody owns the peace process, but let us salute those who lost their lives for the peace process, those politicians and civil society actors on all sides who won peace so that my children do not see the violence of the past. nobody, including this parliament, wants to see that. but i would like to make this observation: we want things to remain the same as they are today on the island of ireland after brexit. that is why i say that we do need the united kingdom to stay in the single market and the customs union. if that is not to be, then please tell me what will replace that. i want a solution. i am afraid i hear nothing from the uk side that will leave things as they are today, but we will welcome a proposal with open arms. michel barnier wants that too. in the negotiations, we will have to make progress on this issue. i cannot go back home to my constituents in donegal, in cavan, in monaghan, in louth, in meath, in all of that constituency, and say that we are going to return to the borders of the past. i will not let that happen.
mr president, research has shown that in the event of a hard brexit, the uk would lose half a million jobs whilst the eu would lose 1.2 million. crucially, they say that these losses will not be evenly distributed, with ireland being worst hit, suffering a relatively greater loss in both jobs and gdp than even the uk itself. this must be factored into any final outcome of the negotiations. largely, today’s debate was positive, and just like the negotiations it must be about establishing a cooperative future – not about settling old scores, or, heaven forbid, opening new wounds. today’s resolution offers hope in the context of northern ireland, where it speaks of northern ireland staying in some form in the internal market and customs union. i believe the majority of people in northern ireland who voted to remain would support today’s proposal, and it would fit in with theresa may’s proposal to exclude any physical infrastructure at the border. those who represent northern ireland must be clear: do they want a hardening of the border, will they accept a harder border, or do they support a unique solution for northern ireland that will avoid a hardening of the border, maintain the travel area and uphold the good friday agreement?
madam president, ireland needs these negotiations to work out more than any other country. diplomacy is a bit like dating. if you want it to succeed, you need to be careful what you say. one thing you don’t say to your future partner if you want your relationship to work is that they would be a dwarf without you. that is what you said, mr verhofstadt, if you could come off your phone for a second. another thing you don’t do is run down their family, no matter how bad their brother or sister might be, even if they have a lower of opinion of them, you don’t run them down! today, manfred weber did just that by demanding that boris johnson resign. i agree. i don’t like him, but it is the british people’s choice. you have made it harder today, manfred! another thing you don’t do with your date is tell them you are in a hurry. jean-claude juncker, you said you would not have much time to spend on this. another thing you don’t do is make public what happens in the bedroom! you brought out what happened in private discussions. we need this to work! we have been bitten by europe on lisbon and nice and on bank debt. it is time to put your egos away, time to make this work, and time to stop insulting people that you ultimately want to work with you.
madam president, i too would like to thank mr verhofstadt and his team for his good work and for the resolution before us today, and also to thank him for coming to ireland two weeks ago, where he was well received as was mr barnier when he came to the ppe bureau meeting in may and went to the north to see the position of the border. thankfully – and i appreciate this very much – there is a determination to maintain the provisions of the good friday agreement, the special circumstances of northern ireland, and a seamless border. some progress has been made was in relation to a transition period. this has now been recognised, and i appreciate that. however, one thing i would say is that a transition period needs to be open-ended, with a target minimum length of maybe two years, without setting a maximum, because it is during that transition period that people will realise what mr barnier has said today and what has not been realised up till now: that the consequences, like the extraordinary complexity of the issue, have been underestimated. given enough time, people will realise that, and then come to an arrangement that would be in the best interests of the eu and the best interests of the united kingdom and of ireland. the other point i would like to make is that an awful lot of speeches, even here today, have to be taken with a pinch of salt, because they are aimed at constituents back home. this is grandstanding. we need less of the public speeches and more engagement where it matters most – around the negotiating table. i think that, over a period of time, around the negotiating table, trust can be built and we can come to conclusions that are satisfactory to everybody. (applause)
madam president, may i just thank you for your service to parliament and wish you well as you go to fresher pastures. briefly on brexit: 557 members supported this resolution. i think what it says very clearly is that this parliament wants to see progress. i hope that the vote and the strength of the resolution will urge the uk side, in particular, to come forward with a much stronger and clear negotiating position, because every day there are new nuances to the brexit story. there are problems and concerns about child protection laws around the border, about the supply of medicines to citizens, about health care and about all sectors of society. therefore, we need progress on the withdrawal agreement before we can move forward to the next phase and i hope today’s vote will nudge those at the negotiating table to make that progress.
the president, was at the meeting or took the laws an recommendation on today, 557 in fhábhar, 92 in choinne agus 29 ag staonadh. i would like to thank guy verhofstadt, michel barnier and everyone who has helped us in this matter, especially those who have asked for a lot of help in the arrangements to take the situation to a new level. if there is no such thing, it is clear that there is a problem, and it is clear that the michel barnier air: an bille imeachta: iarraim ar authorities in the united kingdom teacht le moladh cinnte chun an bille seo the solution. the most successful is without the solution, there is no need in any case to wait for the deadline to reach and the negotiations to finish in am.
madam president, the european parliament has recognised that theresa may’s brexit has the potential to be devastating for the island of ireland. the prospect that is envisaged by the tories, and unfortunately endorsed by unionist representatives in this house today, of a small island of 6.5 million people operating with one part inside the eu and another part outside would be catastrophic for the irish economy north and south, for irish agriculture north and south and, of course, for the irish peace process. i welcome the fact that parliament understands that all of ireland needs to remain in the single market and the customs union. of course, the easiest way for this to happen is for britain to do so also, but if they do not do this they need to know that they have no mandate to drag the north of ireland into economic, political and social upheaval. the irish government must now seize upon this report and lead the demand for special status for the north of ireland in the eu in order to protect our entire island.
madam president, timing is everything. i wanted to make a very brief comment on this report. i think in this house we talk a great deal about the invisibility of women on boards or in politics and how we want to empower young women as they go through the education process to become more visible, but i think very often we forget that there are a great deal of women in very invisible positions in low—paid work. i think we do not spend enough time talking about their empowerment and looking after their rights because they are invisible to many of us. so i think there is a challenge to women, when we are addressing this issue, to talk about all women across all sectors and not just the more visible parts of our society and our economy. that is why i think this is an important report. i supported it, but i think we need to widen the debate and be more inclusive.
madam president, i supported this report, which promotes the crucial protection of women’s rights in the private and public sectors. economic empowerment of women is not only important in a human rights context, but also for the eu’s prosperity at large and for its fair and economic growth. when discriminatory practices have a negative impact on women due to their gender, they are hindered from reaching their full potential and from engaging with society in a meaningful way. important tools for empowering women in the workplace include ensuring the work-life balance, wage mapping, gender quotas, gender equality plans, equal pay for equal work of equal value, collective agreements and social partners. eurostat findings show that the proportions of working women compared to working men in the eu in full—time work amounts to a full-time employment rate gap of 25.5%. irish society has much to thank the eu for in terms of gender equality legislation, but there are still many improvements to be made in ireland and across the eu.
madam president, in my role as vice-president, i look after dialogue with religious communities and non-confessional organisations and we talk a great deal about freedom of religion and belief. in the developing world, a vibrant civil society is very important in terms of protecting that freedom. it is something that we work on with the un and we need to deepen the involvement of civil society in the developing world on this issue because it is a matter of life or death in many developing countries. the problem – and it has been addressed by this report – is that we are seeing, in some developing countries, a shrinking space, with little room for civil society to have its place. therefore, as part of our development policy, we need to help these countries to respect the full range of human rights. we need to empower communities and individuals and we need to make this a priority.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report, which outlines the challenges and the legal gaps related to the threats posed by cybercrime. cybercrime is one of the most pressing issues we face today. across the eu it is increasing in intensity and is causing ever greater economic and social damage. europol’s assessment of the threat posed by cybercrime is that it has affected the fundamental rights of individuals and that 80% of companies in europe have experienced at least one cybersecurity incident. children who are using the internet at an early age are particularly vulnerable to cybercrime. the proposals outlined by this report aim to address these challenges. they include improved responsibility and liability of service providers, and enhanced cooperation among police and judicial authorities, etcetera. to combat child exploitation online, an action plan has been proposed for the protection of children’s rights online and offline in cyberspace. i agree with this. to conclude, madam president, may i wish you all the best for the future. i have always found you to be a very fine, honest and pleasant mep.
mr president, in march of this year the us national aeronautics and space administration (nasa) observed that sea ice had reached a record low wintertime maximum extent in the arctic. at the end of the summer, in the southern hemisphere, the ice around antarctica hit its lowest extent ever recorded by satellites. while there is year-on-year variability, up to last year the trend has been towards more melting of the ice caps. additionally in 2016, the great barrier reef lost 29% of its coral due to rising ocean temperatures. in port douglas, queensland, up to 70% was lost. rising sea levels, along with an increase in the frequency and magnitude of storm events, will bring increased rates of coastal erosion around the world. my own country, ireland, and especially the south coast, is particularly exposed. waterford and cork are highly exposed to the problem of erosion and the local authorities are doing excellent work in developing coastal management strategies at cork harbour and tramore strand. tramore is particularly subject to coastal erosion. however, we must act at european and global level to ensure that this work and the millions of similar examples around the world are not in vain. countering these effects is the challenge of our time. having represented parliament at cop21 and cop22, i am lucky enough to have witnessed at first hand the coming into force of the agreement that will see us meet the two-degrees target. that target must be met, and i compliment commissioner cañete for his role in that matter. in the eu we must ensure that we reduce emissions by at least 40% by 2030 by deploying more renewable energy, pricing carbon and moving to lower carbon and a more sustainable society. i look forward, as shadow rapporteur on the renewable energy directive, to playing my part.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the clarification and for her action in this area in contacting ryanair. on 18 september last, ryanair suddenly announced flight cancellations and it was only last friday, 29 september, 11 days later, that we seem to have come to a point where we had full clarification on the issue, and – in relation to passenger rights – for the passengers’ entitlements to be communicated directly to them. that followed meetings with the commission for aviation regulation in ireland and the uk and in spain, as you have mentioned, so it took that time to ensure that passengers’ rights were outlined clearly and communicated to them directly. regulation (ec) no 261/2004 has been in place since 2004 and we are all well aware of it, and i am sure a european airline that is benefiting from the liberalisation of european airspace should have been aware of the issue. they have said that they take the matter seriously and have put in place strong communication now with their customers. all this came from what has been described as a rostering management failure. it is not a safety issue, as some people would like to think or would like to link it to, and we should be clear on that. flight time regulations were established by these institutions: the amount of time a pilot can fly, and indeed the time that cabin crew can be in the air, in one calendar year was established. in an effort to ensure that they remained compliant and continued to remain compliant, ryanair had a rostering issue and they had to cancel flights and ensure that they could remain compliant. they are compliant, they continue to be compliant, but there is a serious question mark over their management, certainly in the compliance area, when it comes to eu rules and regulations.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr. president, ryanair deliberately misled customers concerning their rights as passengers under eu regulations. it refused to disclose correct information on compensation rights until its hand was forced, but we shouldn't be surprised by ryanair’s disrespectful behaviour towards its passengers. for years, its ceo has prided himself on the company's disrespectful treatment towards its workers. ryanair refuses to negotiate with trade unions, it forbids its workers on many bases from organising, and remember this debacle of cancelled flights is the direct result of pilots and other workers fleeing ryanair. the episode demonstrates that promoting so-called competitiveness to the detriment of workers’ rights cannot and will not succeed. therefore we across the eu institutions have to stop pushing ahead with our aggressive competition agenda in the transport sector and acknowledge first and foremost that flights cannot run and planes cannot fly if we do not have pilots and workers to service them. (applause)
mr president, i believe i am the last passenger for tonight’s debate. i just want to say that i am sure michael o’leary, chief executive of ryanair, is listening to this debate and his ears are burning, and that may be no harm. i hope he has heard the emotion of many colleagues in the chamber, who have expressed the upset caused to passengers and the fact that we need to take this on board. ryanair is a very large airline. the statistics, if you bear with me, are these: 131 million customers this year; operating in 33 countries; an unblemished safety record of 32 years. but the cancellations were of such a scale that people did begin to question whether there was more behind this than simply a rostering error. so ryanair has work to do. on connecting with passengers, they have work to do, as all airlines have. when there is a problem, we need to talk to a human being, and perhaps that is something we could stitch into a regulation. two further points. firstly, could the commission study the follow-up to this crisis? how many people actually claimed their rights? this would be an exercise that would be useful to us, to see if the legislation is working effectively. and lastly, commissioner, do you think there is a need to tighten up the rules, or do you think everything is fine as we have it today?
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner. endocrine disruptors are a problem but i think the problem with this issue is the time it has taken to get to this stage. others have mentioned the eight-year gap in addressing the issue, which does not help in terms of confidence. i think all of us want to protect public health. the question i face, somewhere in between the extremes in this debate, is whether we are better to go with what the commission has tabled, so that we make progress – it is better than the status quo, as i understand it, and i listened carefully to the commissioner’s statement – or whether we should go with the objectors and say that we reject the commission proposal and start from scratch. my fear with that proposal is that we would then wait another eight years to achieve any progress at all. perhaps i am exaggerating the case but it does seem to me that that is the likely outcome. i am looking towards an election in the european parliament, a change of members of parliament, a change of commission, and all the reasons why things get delayed along the way. i am not sure what is wrong with the world health organisation definition, which we are accepting here, and i think that is something to follow, and wisely so. but if we accept the commission proposal, which is my inclination at this stage, and reject your objections, colleagues, then i would like us to keep a close eye on the monitoring in relation to your idea of the definition, so that we can intervene earlier than is suggested. these are my thoughts at this stage. but we are talking about the health and well-being of consumers and of farmers, and we have to put that as our priority.
mr president, this is without doubt an important package of legislation, which aims to clarify the current eu passenger ship safety regulatory framework and to allow for a simple and clear application of that framework. this will ultimately contribute to a higher standard of safety for passengers, which we all welcome. this proposed revision will simplify rules and minimise administrative costs, as well as making sea travel safer. it is important that we maintain eu rules where necessary and proportionate and ensure that those rules are applied correctly and transparently. this text achieves the right balance in this regard. additionally, the proposal looks to prevent any clash of duties and inconsistencies between various related pieces of legislation, which is positive, and i welcome it. it is important that passenger ships are subject to frequent systematic inspections. this revision makes a much—needed update to eu passenger safety legislation and brings our laws in line with the evolving demands and limitations of modern safety standards. the proposal prioritises efficiency and frequency of inspections conducted by national administrations without unnecessarily restricting ships’ commercial operations. with 23 coast member states and four island member states, passenger ships play an important role in eu citizens’ mobility. this makes safety regulations in this area all the more important.
mr president, i see that the council intends to discuss the eu’s external relations at its next meeting. you guys have some nerve! you plan to lecture others on human rights while you sit on your hands while witnessing a vicious assault on peaceful eu citizens in catalonia because they had the audacity to vote. the truth is that european leaders have disgracefully ignored thuggish human rights abuses that are happening within the eu. while this inaction on catalonia continues, you have lost the right to lecture others. let’s be clear, nobody, not a non-elected king, not a non-elected commission, not even a minority government in madrid, has the right to declare illegal the democratic exercise on self-determination by a people. we are told that the eu stands for peace, democracy and human rights. where were those values on sunday? if you dare to use the council meeting to talk about peace or democracy without standing clearly for those values in catalonia, then the people of europe, the people of the world, will rightly consider you to be nothing more than a shower of utter hypocrites.
before we move to the vote, i give the floor to ms berès.
ms berès, to show solidarity with vice-president wieland, i have never found him discourteous, but i take note of your comment. i will perhaps bring it to the bureau and we could look at this issue because i also get criticism when i am very strict with time. my one observation is that yesterday i did not use the gavel during one debate, as an experiment, and it actually worked very well. but we take note of your comment.
mr tarand, your humility is noted and recorded. as you know, the conference of presidents sets the agenda. with respect to their prerogative in this area, we will vote when they set a deadline for submission of nominations for the position and put it on our agenda. but we take note of your comments. i have one announcement before the vote. the president has received from the s&d group a nomination for membership of a delegation. this nomination will be noted in the minutes of the sitting. if no observations have been submitted by the time the minutes are adopted, the nomination will be deemed to have been accepted.
just to inform the house: those of us who were here at the start of business reached an agreement across the house as to how this debate would be handled. we are all extremely aware of the sensitivities of this issue. i think that, as a responsible parliament, we look forward to this debate and hope that we can assist in a very delicate situation.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr melo, just be warned. keep a close eye on the light on your vote should it move or change without your intervention.
that concludes the vote.
madam president, it is important that the parliament today supported this resolution on the issue of child marriage. it affects both boys and girls, but in fact girls are more at risk. eighty-two percent of married children are girls. it is not just a problem for third countries. it is also a problem that affects europe. the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence asks that the act of intentionally forcing a child to enter into marriage be criminalised. so, if we are serious about gender equality, we need to act in this area as well and end the practice. it promotes the empowering of women through education, and it improves social and economic development for women. there have been important recommendations in the resolution that we work with law enforcement authorities on the need for special training and assistance in this area and on education and prevention programmes, and that special procedures would be applied to refugee and asylum seekers reception centres. these are important recommendations, and it is essential that we welcome the fact that parliament has today put this item on the political agenda. we need more political commitment to working in this area, in particular, internationally.
madam president, this text is important for parliament. it clarifies and defines its position in view of the cop 23 climate change conference. the text is important and i would emphasise – and have done – the contribution of all sectors, specifically those of international aviation and the maritime sector. efforts are ongoing in the area of the international civil aviation organisation and the international maritime organisation. so it is very important that we reiterate that global agreements are the best place in which to deal with emissions and with the effect on climate change in these areas. we have done so previously in other resolutions, and it is important that it is reiterated today. i also think that the ambitious targets that have been set down in the paris agreement, whilst they are very welcome, do not guarantee that significant climate impacts will be avoided. the resolution has called for global greenhouse gas emissions to reach their peak, and to do it as soon as possible.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
mr president, it is simply astounding to me that so many in this house want to permanently impose an austerity straitjacket on the entire eu by inserting the fiscal compact into the treaty. the evidence is stark. the fiscal compact has prolonged the downturn, stifled growth and ensured that stagnation is the new normal. it has tied the hands of governments in the diverse countries now entirely reliant on the european central bank’s one-size-fits-all monetary policies, which are running out of steam. where are the strict rules to reduce current account surpluses that will inevitably cause a new debt crisis? a single member state could veto this move to enshrine this failed model into the treaties, but will any government in the eu have the courage to say that the german model does not work for us? the failed austerity model has caused the rise of the far right in europe. it has led to a crisis of legitimacy for the eu institutions. we have the opportunity to shake off the straitjacket. if we do not do so, the eu’s political and economic crisis will become a political and economic catastrophe.
mr president, i want to welcome the report, the president of the eca, and indeed the comments made by commissioner oettinger here today. this is a very important part of our procedure where we discharge on an annualised basis the expenditure under the eu budget. it is important not just because of the role of parliament, but also the role of the council in making sure that eu taxpayers know that their funds are being used properly in key areas of public expenditure. but we should never forget that we are talking about a very small fraction of total public expenditure in the european union. that means that we should use that expenditure to the very best of our abilities and for the objectives of the programmes that we set out. this particular report this year is welcomed, not least because of the qualified opinion that the court has been able to make – that is a very welcome development – but also because of a very significant improvement in the error rate. it is not fair for members of this house not to recognise the fact that, over the past three years, we have seen effectively a 25% reduction in the error rate, from about 4.4% to 3.1% over the past three years. that is a significant improvement and it is something to be recognised and something to be celebrated in this house and within the council. there are issues that we need to address. as other colleagues have said, the question of simplification of rules is crucial to reduce the error rate. one of the issues outlined in the report from the eca this year is this question of outstanding payments. substantial amounts of commitments are made into the future and the money is not spent. we have got to make sure we can get on with the task of spending those monies. but there will be enormous challenges, not least because of the question mark of the budget into the future on the question of brexit, but also because we have to review the mff. i think if we do this in a sensible and deliberative way, we can make sure that not only can we shine a light on what is bad about expenditure, but also shine a light on what is good and learn from that.
colleagues, i mentioned during the votes that i am going to try not to use the gavel. we are running slightly over time and i would ask you if you could cooperate with me and see whether, as an experiment, we can have a good debate without my having to use this. i think it is inappropriate.
thank you for your work. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the council and commission statements on interpol arrest warrants (red notices) (2017/2873(rsp)).
colleagues, just for information, this is not a debate on spain. mr aker, i really allowed you extra privilege to make your contribution.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, this debate on prison systems and conditions allows me to raise a very particular issue, and i am grateful to the catholic bishops of england and wales for coming to me and meeting me on this issue. in england and wales there are over 4 000 eu citizens in prisons, and while in the brexit negotiations there is a desire to include the treatment of these prisoners in the negotiations and have a settlement on it, it is not yet clear what that will mean. the catholic bishops tell me that they are very much involved in the pastoral care of these prisoners. the home secretary can deport eu citizens who commit offences but this is currently restricted by european law. post-brexit, eu citizens who have problems with the system in the uk after withdrawal are likely to fall under the provisions set out in the uk borders act of 2007, which contains far less restrictive grounds for deportation and requires deportation of foreign offenders sentenced to at least 12 months in prison. i think we need to understand that this is a very sensitive issue, and again i am grateful to the church leaders for raising it.
mr president, i, too, am deeply concerned and appalled by the situation of albino people in malawi, tanzania and other african countries. the ongoing stigmatisation, attacks, murder and selling of body parts, to which persons with albinism fall victim, are truly horrifying. persons with albinism are marginalised, isolated and subjected to extreme violence and violations of their fundamental human rights. i urgently call on the governments of the affected countries to bring the perpetrators to justice, and to end the impunity which they currently seem to enjoy. it is necessary that health care, education and employment opportunities are made more accessible to albino people and that victims are supported. the eu must stand strong and not allow these abuses of human rights to continue. lastly, i would like to congratulate my fellow meps for their work, and their speeches here today, to try and help bring these despicable practices to an end.
a uachtaráin, chuir se déistin orainn go léir nuair a dionsaigh na rúisigh an chrimé trí bliana ó shin; faraor, níl aon fhonn abhaile orthu. a uachtaráin, chuir se déistin orainn go léir nuair a dionsaigh na rúisigh an chrimé trí bliana ó shin; faraor, níl aon fhonn abhaile orthu. a uachtaráin, chuir se déistin orainn go léir nuair a dionsaigh na rúisigh an chrimé trí bliana ó shin; faraor, níl aon fhonn abhaile orthu. a uachtaráin, chuir is deistin orainn go léir nuair a dionsaigh na rúisigh an chrimé trí bliana ó shin; faraor, níl aon fhonn abhaile orthu. a uachtaráin, chuir is deistin orainn go léir nuair a dionsaigh na rúisigh an chrimé trí bliana ó shin; faraor, níl aon fhonn abhaile orthu. chuige sin, is they ag ag teacht anuas go trom ar mhuintir in crimea, especially in the daoine is ag ag ag caint amach inagainst. there are three examples of sin againn ar maidin: an bheirt cheannaire tatar agus an t-iriseoir semena. therefore, it is appropriate for us to continue to work in the field of education and to continue to work in the field of education and training. however, we should continue to follow the general human rights laws, especially as they apply to the smachtbhannaí i against russia and the human rights of the people of crimea and their families.
madam president, i agree completely with the social economy model and i am glad my government does the same, and indeed they have a plan to extend it based on four foundations. several irish social enterprises work with marginalised members of our society, including persons with disabilities, to provide them with employment they cannot find elsewhere. during the summer i was pleased to attend what is called a ‘social farming enterprise’ where farmers invite people with disabilities on to their farm to work on a regular basis. this was on a farm in my own area, a cousin of my own, george kelly from beaufort, co. kerry. this is a great example of integrating people. one area where this could also work, especially in ireland, is in the area of wind farms. there is opposition to wind farms now because many people feel that individuals are getting the profits but the whole of society has to carry the burden of noise, etc. which they associate with it; but if it was based on a social economy model then they would all benefit. i think that is something that we will really encourage and i am glad to say, as a rapporteur for renewable energy, that they were including local energy communities in the clean energy package. that certainly could be worthwhile. one area in which it was very successful in ireland is the dairy co-ops. this is where farmers actually own the co-op, so the co-op works for the producers, the profits can be shared, they can come together to buy equipment etc., and it works extremely well. i think this is something we should be encouraging more. thank you very much, and thanks to the commissioner for her good words at the beginning. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – it is actually part of the plan by the government to extend the social model, so there would be tax breaks etc., and benefits for them. and indeed in the social economy, especially the social farming that i mentioned, the minister has given it some financial help to encourage this and to expand it out further. the answer is yes, but there is probably need for more. and when people see the benefits i think it would be easier to convince governments and others to put further finance there.
mr president, the whole idea of the circular economy is just catching on, so it is appropriate that we try and implement it in the agriculture sector with fertilisers. frankly, for a lot a farmers, they try to operate a circular economy on their farm where they have animals and cropping, and it can work really well. it can also work at the local level – amongst farmers who trade in livestock manure, and i think that is something we should encourage and promote. in this case, what we are talking about is extending what can be used as a fertiliser ingredient. what we need from that is that it is effective – in other words, that it works at farm level and that it is safe and that we do not over-regulate. what is very important is that fertilisers in the past account for 60% of the registered yield increase in the last 50 years, so we absolutely need fertilisers to grow crops. i have listened carefully to the robust debate about cadmium, and i think we have to make sure that what we aspire to is achievable and does not have unintended consequences. i would say here that the cereal sector in europe is under huge pressure. we import a large volume of cereals that will be produced without our control on the cadmium levels used in the fertilisers in third countries, and we need to be very mindful of the consequences of that on our production here. it is one of the things that we do repeatedly in europe. i want us to be leaders in this field, but i do not want us to be so far ahead that we are behind. we do it in a whole range of products. if we can encourage the rest of the world to move with us, then i think we could all do that in a very coherent and supportive way. i fear, though, that in this case we will be so far ahead that we are behind and will cause problems on the single market for our farmers, and indeed for our consumers.
mr president, it is fairly obvious that, if there was no prohibition on the consumption of cannabis, the synthetic forms of cannabis would disappear from the market in the same way that the demand for melted—down boot polish plummeted after the repeal of prohibition of alcohol in the us. the choice we must make is that of allowing access to a relatively benign plant, which has had many, many studies carried out on it, or leave our young people to the mercy of a legal, untested cocktail of chemicals. in ireland alone, in the region of 100 000 people have a criminal record for possession of cannabis. it prevents them from travelling, from parenting and from access to decent employment. the law, rather than the drug, destroys their lives. this is the main reason why young people take these dangerous cocktails of drugs. the alternative is to face a life of ruin for taking a safer substance called cannabis. the war on drugs is a war on people. it must end. start it by legalising cannabis now.
mr president, it is time for an end to the lip service when we come to talking about whistle-blowers. everyone says they are wonderful; everyone says they are brave; everyone says they are exceptional. it’s only when we get to a situation where people don’t need to be brave to be whistle-blowers where it becomes normal to be a whistle-blower – then we can say that we have succeeded. at the moment, you have to be exceptional: if you become a whistle-blower in my country, you will be the one ending up digesting the whistle. you will end up unemployed; you will end up mentally destroyed. i have seen this on so many occasions. we have seen situations in my country where whistle-blowers in our police force have had false files and paedophilia charges put against them, since exposed. we have had members of our police force who have had rats hung on their door for exposing wrongdoing. we need to help these people. either that, or we need to tell them, ‘keep quiet, otherwise your life will be destroyed’. hopefully this will change it. a good start.
mr president, last week ireland was hit by storm ophelia. homes, farms, businesses roads, schools even sports stadiums fell victim to massive structural damage. unfortunately, lives were also lost. government politicians have been quick to call for applications to the european solidarity fund, although they are aware that the threshold has not been reached for this third consecutive catastrophic storm. one reason for this is that, in 2015, the threshold for ireland to apply for solidarity funds was eur 803 million. this year, however, the threshold is eur 1.2 billion. the story is the same for the regional thresholds based on gdp: irish regions have seen leaps of between eur 58 million and eur 333 million in the amount of damage they must incur to apply for funds between 2015 and 2017. this is a result of distorted gdp figures famously described as ‘leprechaun economics’, and we now need to cut out those figures. on the eu side, too, there is a need to review the solidarity fund, as it discriminates against rural and peripheral regions. it is harder for regions to meet the threshold if they have poorer infrastructure to begin with.
mr president, every year 1.4 million europeans develop some form of dementia, and the world health organisation estimates that 6.4 million people in the european union are currently living with dementia, either the most common cause of dementia or alzheimer’s disease. there is no cure to halt or treat the disease but there are treatments that delay progression or alleviate the symptoms. emphasis is now being placed on the standard of care, ensuring dignity for those who have dementia, ascribing to a rights-based approach. there is also a gender dimension to dementia, with alzheimer’s disease mainly affecting women, and women play an important role in caring. i think much more could, and should, be done at eu level to coordinate the research – into both care and prevention – that is being carried out at member state level. we can improve diagnosis and post-diagnostic services if we foster dementia-friendly communities. i would suggest establishing an eu coordinator to ensure that this issue is addressed at the highest level, because a lot of information is not being shared across member states.
mr president, father shay cullen is an irish priest working with vulnerable children in the philippines since the early 1970s. in his experience, sex offenders travel from the european union and beyond to the philippines to abuse children, and he has many, many horrific cases which he is dealing with. he has called on my country, ireland, and other countries in europe to stop convicted child sex offenders traveling abroad, by taking their passports from them or preventing them from getting a passport. there is a precedent in this – australia passed legislation in july to stop registered sex offenders from traveling by removing their passports. we should heed the words of this priest – he knows what he is talking about. as we protect, or try to protect, our children in our own countries, the least we could do is afford the same level of protection to children elsewhere. where we know a sex offender is convicted in our member state, we should stop them traveling to do their evil deeds elsewhere.
mr coburn wants to ask a blue-card question but he has already had a blue card. i am going to be a bit restrictive on this occasion, so one blue card only. i apologise but i have made my decision.
madam president, the good friday agreement recognises that there are unique circumstances that require special arrangements regarding the north of ireland. that accord essentially conferred a special status regarding the political and constitutional framework on which the six counties of the north operate. that agreement is the basis on which we have been building peace in ireland. anyone who now says that there must be no special provisions for the north of ireland in any brexit deal is not only ignoring the realities of the good friday agreement, but is in fact trying to undermine it. it is disappointing that the british government is cherry-picking the peace agreement, but it would be worse, it would be a travesty, if eu negotiators allowed them to do so by agreeing to the removal of european legal protections for the north of ireland. as someone from the border region, i tell parliament today, i tell the council and the commission that our community will not accept any return to the days of physical manifestations of the border in ireland, knowing as we do the economic, political and social catastrophe that that would be. all of ireland must remain in the customs union and the single market, and all of ireland must have the protections of eu law. the eu must stand firm on these positions.
the president, voting on the laws in 451 made the vote on the subject of a proposal on today's agenda an issue we are considering. of course, the scheme was introduced in the economic sphere when we were dealing with the new problems: the people working there especially in the old ones. they were, for example, my own father, my own mother, my own son, but they had no connection with them. then came the scheme that we, the people of the country, were going to go to the countries to improve things. we go with the young people who went to the school: they can come back, especially if they have to go with us. but at the same time, it's a good thing to end up with a scheme back in europe, and if you're called here, you're in the police station and you're not allowed to bring the kid in and you're allowed to get him.
i voted in favour of this report, but of course i have to report to my friend derek vaughan from the british government as to what he has done. an estimated 120 million people in the eu work and are excluded from social life because of economic reasons. i tell myself, i think that there are three million people in the world who are like that. therefore, we cannot be satisfied about the sin especially when the rud is going to have an economic collapse behind us now, we hope. caithimid tús aite to thabhairt don fhadhb seo agus cabhrú leis in páistí, mná, daoine le máchail, daoine dífhostaithe atá sa bhfadhb uafásach seo. caithimid tús aite to thabhairt don fhadhb seo agus cabhrú leis in páistí, mná, daoine le máchail, daoine dífhostaithe atá sa bhfadhb uafásach seo. caithimid tús aite to thabhairt don fhadhb seo agus cabhrú leis in páistí, mná, daoine le máchail, daoine dífhostaithe atá sa bhfadhb uafásach seo. caithimid tús aite to thabhairt don fhadhb seo agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus agus it's in the schemes that i'm making important in my own life and my party, fine gael, is really doing something to help people in this area and will do more in the future. but in the end, caithfimid bunioncam to give them agus, too, so act natural social to be with chomh maith.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission work programme for 2018 ((2017/2746(rsp)).
we can agree with that as regards the interpreters. our thanks to them.
mr president, i would like to thank vice president timmermans. the line that caught my ears, and indeed my eye, was about the food supply chain. a few of us, many years ago, started talking about unfair trading practices, and this chamber voted by 600 members for the commission to take action. so you did listen, and i am really looking forward to seeing the details of that proposal. i hope as many members support the initiative, which i believe has to be very strong and very tough. i also want to take the opportunity to say that we are doing things in this house which are having a negative impact on food production and conventional agriculture, like the votes on plant protection products and on other technologies around agriculture and our trade policy is also having an impact. so when we look at the food supply chain initiative, which i welcome, we are going to have to take a holistic look at what we want for food production in europe and how we intend to support that type of food production and be careful how we advance.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs reached political consensus on the opinion that lines should be maintained at the level that has been proposed by the commission and as has been said, 2018 will be a pivotal year for the union. as we approach the end of this mandate, we must ensure that we leave a good framework in place. that means funding must be maintained for important employment lines like the european social fund (esf), and the year-on-year increases that have been proposed in smart and inclusive growth and indeed in economic, social and territorial cohesion are welcomed. in particular, the committee wanted to ensure that youth employment initiatives were protected and that funding for the youth guarantee has been held and that funding increases for the youth employment initiative are agreed as a matter of urgency. the proposal for establishing the european solidarity corps was welcomed by the committee which made it clear that the funding should not come from established priority funds like the esf but should come from the global margin for commitments. we also welcomed the proposed increase to the maximum envelope of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). however, we would stress the need for flexibility in this area, in its applicability criteria, because unemployment numbers can affect smaller rather than larger member states to different degrees.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhaochas a ghabháil leis an uasal rubik chomh maith as an tacaíocht a léirigh se don teanga gaeilge san óráid a bhí ar bun aige. i would like to thank you for your support and for your support to the irish language. i would like to welcome the new budget for 2018, which is a very important step forward and which parliament and the commission have agreed to take at this stage, and i am convinced that the budget should be more regular. i'm worried about the 2018 election. there is a need for development in our area so that we can have a life that is sustainable. an fhadhb is more an question is more about laws an mbuiséad seo there are an so many more promises to the interpretation and dtaobh empleo a crear. what are the promises you made to our young people, what are the promises you made to support us, to help us? is baolach gur easpa fool that ann again agus arís eile. as a member of the committee, i would like to ask all members to support the vote on the 17th reading of the 2018 budget tomorrow and to support the strong message given by the people of ireland on the need to strengthen the laws and the processes in ireland and the agreement on the future, particularly in the context of brexit. go raibh míle maith agat. what are you doing?
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an entry/exit system (ees) to register entry and exit data and refusal of entry data of third country nationals crossing the external borders of the member states of the european union and determining the conditions for access to the ees for law enforcement purposes and amending regulation (ec) no 767/2008 and regulation (eu) no 1077/2011 (com(2016)0194 – c8—0135/2016 – 2016/0106(cod)) (a8—0057/2017), and– the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2016/399 as regards the use of the entry/exit system (com(2016)0196 – c8—0134/2016 – 2016/0105(cod)) (a8—0059/2017).
mr szanyi has a blue card but, mr szanyi, you are also on catch-the-eye, so do you wish to ask the question? mr becker, will you accept the question? so no, mr szanyi is not going to ask a question. there is a blue-card question from the greens group; do you accept this question, mr becker? yes.
please stop heckling. thank you. i am not sure that was a question about the issue we are debating, but perhaps mr becker would choose to answer?
mr albrecht, one moment. ms sippel, you have a point of order?
please, colleagues, we are now in a debate. we will now move on to our next speaker.
mr epitideios, your time of one minute is up, please stop speaking. i would ask you to respect the request of the chair to keep to your time. mr sógor, i am sure you will respect the one minute.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 25 october 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on combating sexual harassment and abuse in the eu (2017/2897(rsp)).
madam president, the weinstein case has given confidence to many to come out and to speak and to tell their story of how they have been treated. sexual harassment should not be tolerated in any form: it is an abuse of a powerful position. i would like to pay tribute to all those brave women who have come out and told their story; they have facilitated others in coming forward, and i think it has been a very important step. we should look at the role the media has played in this – both traditional media and, indeed, social media – in giving young women in general (and it mostly is young women) the confidence to come and tell their story. but we need to ask ourselves how the structures that are in place in this parliament have not facilitated those women to come forward. they do not have confidence; they do not feel comfortable; and, most importantly, they do not feel safe in coming forward to the structures that are in place. that is a question for all of us. the eu employment equality directive is designed to protect employees from sexual harassment, and that legislation must work for all employees in every workplace across europe. here in parliament, we need to provide a safe workplace free from harassment of any kind, and we need to provide the structures and the proper reporting mechanisms so that individuals can come forward in a situation where they feel safe. i think the onus is on all of us to ensure that, and to ask questions as to why that has not been happening to date.
madam president, yesterday the sentencing of a journalist, who was regarded as eminent and highly respected, for child sex abuse offences has been criticised for the leniency of the conviction and sentence. he received two and a half years, and the chief executive of the dublin rape crisis centre has led complaints about this. i suppose what that shows is that even when the law takes its course, society and families are not always satisfied by the outcome. that is something we need to be conscious of. i visited a women’s refuge recently in my constituency and sexual violence is all too prevalent, but i am glad to say that there is help and support available, and people should reach out for that support. i would ask colleagues in this house, staff and members, to put their faith in elisabeth morin-chartier, our colleague who takes on her shoulders an enormous responsibility and does it with great effect. please, if you have not approached her, do! she will listen. she will act.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to, and try and get your support for, this oral amendment. i know we have the support of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats (s&d) and the european free alliance group (verts/ale), and this was indeed accepted by the rapporteur. it is basically concerned with peace and stability, something i think this house should be supportive of. it is highly concerned with the rise of instability and uncertainty, both within and outside the union, and insists on the need for a renewed focus on the union’s approach to cohesion, integration, peace, sustainable development and human rights. it calls upon the commission and the member states to connect and boost efforts towards further sustaining peace and conflict prevention, and recalls the worldwide inspiration brought about by the good friday agreement, while acknowledging the unprecedented challenges and pressures in the aftermath of the united kingdom 2016 referendum. it calls upon the commission and member states to enhance their support for reconciliation to secure peace and stability and ireland. i would therefore urge you, colleagues, to please support this amendment.
mr president, as a direct result of an ecb diktat to bail out two non-systemic banks, ireland is forced to borrow and burn billions. we’re talking about policies of the eurozone: this is a policy of the ecb. in 2015, the irish central bank destroyed eur two billion; in 2016, eur three billion; in 2017 so far, eur 2.5 billion, and another eur four billion to come. that is eur 8.5 billion in the last three years. this is an ecb policy, a policy to pay back a debt that was never ireland’s. many here may say, ‘sure, can’t we afford it, isn’t our economy booming?’ yes, if you accept that one can eat gdp, but gdp growth in ireland’s case is totally unconnected to ordinary people’s wealth. it does not trickle down. we have record hospital waiting lists. we have record homelessness. we cannot afford the most basic climate change mitigation measures, yet it is the policy of the ecb that my country should continue to borrow and burn billions. and you know what? no one here gives a damn.
mr president, coming from ireland, which has very close links – both culturally and in other matters – with australia and new zealand, i can see the logic of doing a trade agreement with them. indeed, right now our president, mr higgins, is in australia, and he opened our first embassy in new zealand today. one-in-six new zealanders claim irish ancestry, so it is logical that we should – and particularly at the time of trump’s actions in the united states – try to expand free trade with places with will be beneficial to us and to them. unfortunately, the timing here isn’t the best, with mercosur and brexit, the agricultural community is very concerned, and their concerns must certainly be taken on board and they must be brought on board if this agreement is to go ahead. you cannot force something through if one sector doesn’t see it doing them any advantage, or worse, doing them a disadvantage. so, i would think that it is right we should negotiate, but we have to do so and ensure that we get a very balanced, acceptable deal at the end of the day with our good friends from the southern hemisphere.
madam president, i say to the commissioner: transparency in whatever market ultimately benefits consumers and increases market efficiency. it is very important – and has been a long-established goal of this parliament – to enhance knowledge of consumer rights, to strengthen the enforcement of those rights and to integrate consumers’ interests into key sectoral policies. we need to empower consumers through access to choice, information and awareness of their own rights. and the fair and open competition in the eu’s aviation sector has always been to the ultimate benefit of the consumer. parliament here has been one of the strong and key components of europe’s open and connected aviation market. regulation 80/2009 and the code of conduct for computerised reservation systems oblige all systems to be neutral and the owners not to discriminate. these rules have all helped to facilitate the transition from an aviation market that had minimum competition and high prices to a market today where many consumers can afford to fly thanks to more choice and to more transparency. and large airlines have a strong market position. they then have the power to charge higher prices, which is only compounded by a lack of transparency. and for the same reasons there is also a vested interest for these large airlines to limit price market transparency. so we need answers, i, like others, am frustrated at the time it is taking to come to a conclusion on this matter. but we need to know – yes or no – whether it is in contravention: whether or not it is giving consumers the entitlements to which they are obliged.
madam president, firstly, my sincere sympathy to my colleagues from the iberian peninsula on what they have suffered as a result of the forest fires in spain and portugal. i would also like to commend the commissioner for his genuine affinity and empathy with those who suffered, and for his desire to help. that is as it should be, and he is portraying a very human face for what is often seen as a bureaucratic commission. certainly not in his case. in my own country, we had some very serious flooding recently as a result of hurricane ophelia, the worst storm we have had in over 50 years – followed on last week by another storm, storm brian. five people were killed during that, and a huge amount of damage was done. having discussed it with him, i know the commissioner would like to help us, but there may be difficulties in terms of the high threshold that it takes to qualify and i think that is something we need to look at going forward. we should reduce the threshold and definitely increase the funding for the solidarity fund, because this is one way of really showing citizens that we care for them – especially in their hour of need.
mr president, free trade is the cornerstone of the eu. in light of brexit and the lack of clarity on the united kingdom—eu market, the eu, and ireland in particular, must seek to strengthen trading with other markets. in 2015, the eu was australia’s third-largest trading partner after china and japan. the trade in goods in 2015 amounted to eur 62.5 billion and exports from australia to the eu amounted to eur 10.6 billion. there is a long-standing, friendly relationship between australia and ireland, with one in three australians claiming irish heritage. an eu—australia trade agreement will strengthen our relationship even further and be mutually beneficial in opening access to markets and fostering competition. however, there have been real concerns expressed over the potential negative implications of such a trade agreement on agri—food exports such as beef and dairy. i take such concerns extremely seriously, as an irishman, as the farming industry and agri—food sectors play a central role in the irish economy. so it is important that due consideration is given to these sectors and, if there are quotas given to australia, that there will be a review clause after a number of years, so that could be re—addressed ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the coordinated efforts to increase vaccination cover in europe are of course welcome. however, i cannot accept some of the approaches which i have heard advocated. to suggest that legal requirements are not necessary for ensuring the highest possible immunisation rates is to disregard how crucial these immunisations are. we cannot take chances when it comes to the health and safety of our citizens and in particular, our children. we must take heed of the often life-saving health benefits of vaccinations for our children, as the commissioner has just pointed out. accurate and widespread information is essential to ensure citizens know how important vaccines are for their children. safety is, of course, always a primary concern; now decisions directly affect minors. unfortunately, it seems that public attention is often focused on vaccine safety and not on vaccine effectiveness. modern medicine has allowed an extremely high safety record in vaccinations. misplaced fears regarding the safety of vaccines have in the past caused a decrease in vaccination coverage. this of course caused outbreaks of diseases such as measles. for example, vaccination is not mandatory in great britain, and around 24 000 children a year in england are not immunised against measles, mumps and rubella. part of the hesitation of parents to allow their children to receive the combined vaccination for these three infectious diseases was caused by a discredited study which claimed to show a link between vaccination and autism. this study has since been disproved. vaccines are not only important to prevent disease in individuals; they are hugely important for communities at large and are proven to be effective in reducing child mortality. there is an obligation on governments to ensure that every citizen is given the opportunity to live a healthy life and therefore, vaccination should be mandatory across europe. dá bhrí sin tá súil agam gur féidir linn cabhrú lenár saoránaigh, go háirithe ár leanaí, saol sláintiúil a bheith acu trí instealladh a fháil i gcoinne na ngalar seo.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report and also to thank the commissioner because i think the two views seem to be aligned. we have much common ground on the issue of car safety: improving the safety of vehicles, reducing road deaths, and – as you have said yourself, commissioner, on numerous occasions – reducing the number of serious injuries on our roads, because, as we know from so many people, these can have a horrific effect on individuals and their families. many people live with such injuries for the balance of their lifetime. ninety-five per cent of accidents are related to human error, and technology can play a very important role in reducing those errors. we have seen much, to date, in terms of introducing technology to cars. seat-belt reminders were a small step that actually does save lives and reduces what could be the horrendous impact of injuries. i am delighted that some amendments i made in relation to heavy goods vehicles were adopted, ensuring that we have ambitious direct-vision standards included in truck design. commissioner, i am glad you included that point in your speech this evening. we need to address blind spots and protect pedestrians and cyclists. when you think about it, the right place for these large vehicles is not on our roads in urban areas, but we can do a lot in terms of vehicle design to address their safety and the threat that they pose to cyclists and pedestrians. i very much look forward to the third mobility package, in which many of these measures will be included, and we look forward to approving them.
mr president, this is a very important debate, and colleagues have outlined the extent of the persecution of christians in the world. frankly, when i talk to people about this, they don’t believe it. i think that there is a lack of awareness generally about how widespread this problem is and how serious it is. over 215 million christians are persecuted globally. i think the person we should give great support to in his work is ján figeľ, the eu special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion and belief. he does incredible work and he is tireless in pursuit of this ideal where we all have freedom of religion and belief, and i believe he needs more support, both within the commission and indeed from this house, because if we don’t tackle this type of abuse and persecution and if we allow it to increase, as is happening, then i’m really concerned about the future for christianity and for people of all faiths.
mr president, last week those negotiating the brexit agreement appeared to reach a stalemate and we now look to the summit next month and i hope that sufficient progress can be made there in order for the future arrangements between the uk and europe to be agreed. we should remind ourselves at this time that this parliament’s resolution recognises the unique situation and the special circumstances on the island of ireland, and that any solutions will have to be mindful of this, and that means protecting the good friday agreement in all its parts. the 1998 good friday agreement, voted by people across the island of ireland, was underpinned and was supported by the european union. now we have north-south cooperation on the island of ireland in many areas, in more than a hundred areas in health, education, and environment, and we need that to continue. northern ireland needs to stay within the eu regulatory regime if that is to continue, and that means within the customs union or within the single market. i think we need to bear that in mind when we are looking again at the negotiations that will occur next month.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the paradise papers (2017/2956(rsp)).
madam president, i fully support this parliament forming a new committee to examine revelations in the paradise papers. issues of corporate tax avoidance and evasion are now so prevalent that we need a permanent committee for investigations. it is also time for the un to convene a global summit in response to this latest leak in order to deal decisively and at a global level with financial secrecy. the paradise papers revealed that the world’s richest corporation, apple, went shopping for a new offshore jurisdiction after the role its irish subsidiaries were playing in tax avoidance was exposed. the apple leak shows that apple settled on jersey, but it also highlights the role that the irish government played in helping apple set up its new tax avoidance structure. in 2014, the irish government claimed it was abolishing the notorious ‘double irish’ but not only did they provide an absurdly long phase-out period, they also created a grace period that allowed new companies to be established which could then use the double irish until 2020. the paradise papers show apple took full advantage of this move to set up the ‘double irish’ structure in jersey. how many more billions in profit will this scheme allow apple to avoid paying in tax over this period? apple has repeatedly shown its contempt for ordinary taxpayers by using every trick in the book to avoid paying its fair share of tax, and yet this is the company that the irish government is desperately trying to avoid collecting unpaid taxes from. if we in ireland are to garner any credibility on these matters, then our government needs to stop wasting millions of our money on its appeal and act now to collect the taxes that the irish people are owed.
go raibh maith agat to the uachtaráin. i have a report to write to the commissioner on the situation in many of the countries where the citizens of europe are most concerned. mr president, the agreement reached at the trilogue will ensure the development of modern, efficient and effective consumer protection cooperation measures which will reduce consumer harm caused by cross-border infringements. it is vital that all member states reach similar outcomes on the same malpractices across the board in relation to consumer and marketing law. i think that this text will help to ensure this. there are a number of positive points in this text. i particularly welcome that the commission will be empowered to assist member states in coordinating common actions for example those of national enforcement to get commitments from traders to change their malpractices. additionally, i welcome the new surveillance mechanism to replace the current cpc system of alerts, widening the exchange of information. this agreement will enable enforcement authorities to cooperate more efficiently and act faster in the single market, especially the digital single market. it is vital that this cooperation is facilitated, as consumers must be protected to the same degree throughout the eu28. i look forward to the implementation of the regulation. job maith, i'm sorry about that.
mr president, there is no doubt about it, but demographic change is a significant strategic challenge for all of europe. the eurostat projection figures have revealed the decreasing labour force, which is expected to decline by 1.9 million people by 2020. throughout the period 2008-2030, population decline is anticipated in one-third of european regions. furthermore, it is predicted that the proportion of persons over the age of 65 will increase from 18.9 % in 2015 to 28.7 % in 2080. thankfully in my own country, while we will have an aging population, we do have a very young population as well. the highest proportion of young people in the total population is 21.9 %. this of course offers its own challenges, especially in creating employment. the demographic change will affect education systems, health and community services. i am pleased that this was addressed by our new leader leo varadkar at our national convention at the weekend and he will be speaking before parliament here in the new year.
madam president, daphne caruana galizia was a journalist apart, not just because of the quality of her writing, not just because of those whom she was exposing for their corruption decided to murder her, but because of her courage in an ocean of cowardice. traditional journalism was about fearlessly and objectively holding authority to account, about protection of the interests of the masses, about exposing wrongdoing, especially at the highest level. all of those would describe daphne to a tee. modern journalism is about fearfully and subjectively kowtowing to authority, about protection of the interests of the powerful few, about burying wrongdoing especially at the highest level. i can think of many so-called journalists whom that would describe. people who aren’t just writing and speaking to defend those named and shamed in the panama papers and the paradise papers but in some cases are actually on their payroll, owned and controlled. in the same way that we have political parties, who besmirch the word ‘people’ by incorporating it in their name, we have news outlets who besmirch the word ‘independent’. i hope daphne’s death was not in vain, but given how this place works i fear it will be.
blue-card question. – in 30 seconds i have many questions, and i accept your figures about the potential costs from a ‘no deal’. you and i share a boundary – it is called the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland – and i hope and expect that both you and i understand the dire consequences for our citizens if there is no deal and should things go wrong. i would ask you to reflect on your words about a divorce bill and, rather, frame it as a divorce settlement. for all divorces, if they are to be good ones, there is a cost, and i would ask the uk to meet its commitments so that we can move on.
mr president, the agenda for this ministerial conference is not overly ambitious and i am not so sure that our hopes are very high, but i think we will go there as the european union in good faith. what strikes me is that, in the absence of a structure like the world trade organization that functions, there is a yawning gap, a vacuum. the real worry – and others have mentioned this – is that one of the main global players, the usa, is not participating fully in the wto at the moment and is perhaps acting to weaken the structures that we all rely on. it is also important to mention that, every time trade is discussed, agriculture is very high on the agenda, and there is no agreement as to how to deal with agriculture, save to say that it is a sector different from others. it is about rural areas, about people, about food and food security, and i hope the sensitivities of agriculture will be fully taken on board at our meeting.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, it is clear from the fitness check that we need real improvement for the implementation of the eu nature directives. biodiversity is under threat across the continent, and this action plan points to where we are currently failing and aims to get us back on track for our 2020 goals. there are real concerns on the island of ireland about the impact of brexit on the over 135 000 hectares of natura 2000 sites that traverse along the border. we also welcome in the action the financial commitments to increasing biodiversity funding. however, as an ecologist, i reject the paragraphs that focus solely on the negative aspects of the reintroduction of predators. while certain preventive measures may be necessary, we cannot rule out the introduction of predators as they constitute an important part of the ecological balance of some habitats.
mr president, this is a very important discussion. at the outset, i must say that the european union deserves credit for what it has been trying to do in relation to refugees and asylum seekers. if you look at non-eu countries, they do not do half as much as the european union, and while we have deficiencies, that is the starting point. definitely, countries like italy – and especially greece – deserve great credit because, despite the economic travails that they have had over the last number of years, they are still taking in the refugees and trying to deal with them. we should be giving them every support possible to help the situation. if migrants are illegal, they should be sent back. if they are legal, they need to be given the best possible care – especially with the onset of winter. it would be tragic that anybody who comes here looking for freedom and is legal would die because of the lack of warmth, clothing and comfort that they deserve. i am with the commission: cooperate with greece.
that concludes the vote.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here today and for the package we are discussing because europe, as we have said, really is lagging behind when it comes to clean energy and its associated relationship with cars and with vehicles. i very much welcome the package because it sets targets and also provides encouragement and support, as well as financial grants in some areas, to ensure that we reduce our carbon emissions and improve air quality for all citizens. i particularly welcome the focus on public procurement. i think it is very important in encouraging public authorities to use and to purchase clean vehicles. i am thinking of buses. all our major cities have buses, in fact most cities in europe depend on buses for public transport rather than any other form of transport. it is very positive and whether it is for electric vehicles or for whatever type of renewable energy that may be used, i can see the real value in that and i can see it being very effective. also, the eur 800 000 for an action plan to ensure that we have charging points along our infrastructure is very positive and will encourage that. i also think that the battery initiative is good, because there is so much potential in that area where europe are not the leaders, but europe can lead in that area. i look forward to signing up for that package and to encouraging it, because these are the very practical measures that we need to ensure that we move in this area, because all around us we see the impact of climate change, and now is the time to act.
the president, in his capacity as european ombudsman, is normally the person who is most likely to be affected. but if we are to get social europe to work, we should have a european ombudsman to look after us. the administrative framework required by the european agencies reflects the need for easy communication, which is common to most european agencies and to the member states, and is common to most european agencies. the public and private bodies in ireland are still suffering from the lack of money due to the lack of local administration, for example leader. in 2011, irish citizens petitioned the ombudsman about access to medical cannabis in ireland. and when you are outside the scope of an ombudsman, there is a great deal of access to healthcare for citizens in europe, especially where citizens have different rights depending on the member state they are in. the young irish girl, ava twomey, is currently living in iceland, where she has no access to medical cannabis. it's a big deal to do that to a girl in a classroom. and again, it's the ordinary citizens of the town and the bodies that are being buried. i used an ombudsman to help solve the bhfadhbanna in the community.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, one of the biggest problems we have with implementing directives when it comes to the environment is the fact that governments do not actually take ownership of these directives, even though they themselves transpose them into law. on many occasions, the statement is made at home that ‘the eu made us do it’, a similar sort of excuse that bart simpson comes up with when he has obviously done something wrong: ‘someone else made them do it’. what chance is there of real committed implementation if the state itself is not really committed? the result in implementation tends to be shabby and imposed on people, rather than carried out through consultation and dialogue. a perfect example of this is the birds and habitats directive. as commissioner hogan knows himself, i would not be here if it were not for the mess that was made of that. the directive itself is excellent. however, how it was implemented when it came to turf cutters and farmers has left a bitter taste which will not be removed for a long time. no real consultation took place, and also implementation costs ordinary people money, whether that be septic-tank inspections or training in pesticide spraying. these costs should be borne by the state and not by the individual, because it’s really important that we do this. if it’s that important then let those who can afford it pay for it.
madam president, there is no doubt that eu environmental legislation has yielded results. we have better environments than if europe had not acted collectively. there are issues on implementation by member states, and that is why this review is very important, but there are also conflicts in our policy. i was struck last week, watching a television programme called ear to the ground, by a major report on japanese knotweed, an invasive alien species that we have tried to get rid of because it is causing havoc to buildings and roads and is spreading like wildfire. the product being used was glyphosate – roundup – to kill this invasive alien species. yet, in this house, there are many who would clamour for the removal of this product, and indeed the member states are refusing, or failing, to come forward with a proposal to re-license it. sometimes, on environmental policies, we need coherence at political level and at commission level, so that we can continue to use these products to improve the environment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 16 november 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the russian ban – eu fruit and vegetable sector, by czesław adam siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o—000082/2017 – b8—0610/2017) (2017/2950(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, now we are speaking about somalia which is a very tragic situation because in somalia, first of all, they have a famine as a result of four rainy seasons having failed, leading to 800 000 refugees and between one and a half to two million displaced persons. on top of that, it is unfortunately a very corrupt country, with transparency international rating it for the tenth year running as the most corrupt in the world, and of course the worst of all is al-shabaab, the terrorist organisation which caused major devastation in october. but there is great hope for somalia. number one, they have a newly elected president who seems to be a good man and, as pointed out by charles tannock, is trying to incorporate as many groups as possible in government. secondly, many females and young people have been elected to government. thirdly, the people had the courage to protest publicly against al-shabaab. the european union has done a lot of work here, giving eur 3.4 billion in aid between 2015 and 2020, 60% of what somalia has got from the world community. i think we need to work with the president and others: firstly, to establish their own security forces – as mr zeller said, the african union mission in somali (amisom) is not working – and secondly, to try and fight that terrible terrorist group al-shabaab and keep young people away from them and then we can make progress. there is a great opportunity here. let’s grasp it.
madam president, it is interesting that at my own party’s national convention last week in ireland prominence was given to the question of africa and it was mentioned that the european union as a whole, they felt, needed to engage more with africa. i pointed out the lot of engagement we have already in terms of development and humanitarian aid, etc., but at the same time, it is a point worth making. also worth making is the point made by my colleague behind me here, cristian dan preda, that the delegations that went there were well—received and beneficial, and i think we need more direct dialogue – with members of the european parliament, with commissioners, like commissioner hogan, etc. they can bring a lot of expertise and direction to countries like madagascar and also help us better understand their problems and help them deal with issues like human rights violations and illegal logging, etc., and to ensure that their elections are properly conducted and fair. i think direct dialogue is something we need to encourage a bit more.
madam president, i was very pleased to vote in favour of this report, and very much welcome the signing of the partnership agreement with new zealand. it is testament to the ongoing cooperation that the eu has fostered with new zealand. the agreement has reinforced cooperation on a wide variety of important areas, and also facilitates further progress in trade with the launching of negotiations for the free trade agreement between the eu and new zealand. speaking as an irish person, we have a long-standing, friendly relationship with new zealand. indeed, one in six new zealanders claim irish heritage, and the irish government was very pleased to witness the opening of the new zealand embassy in dublin earlier this year. there have always been strong personal and cultural links between the two countries. this is also the case for other member states, and certainly now for the european union at large. the parc agreement has built on political, economic and cultural ties that look forward to future developments between the eu and new zealand in these areas and of course, as the world gets smaller, new zealand comes nearer to us.
the president, the vice-president and the president of the commission shall be informed of the report and shall indicate the reasons why the balance of the budget is to be important for the union. the eu's efforts to combat poverty and equality should take the form of a variety of mechanisms support for employees, digitisation of the workplace, addressing the gender pay gap, reinforcing efforts to eliminate poverty and enhanced employment policies affecting young people. one of the european union's 2020 targets looks to reduce the number of people in or at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million. inequality resulting from the economic crisis had a particularly negative effect on women, causing increased exclusion from the labour market and worsening poverty among women. eurostat findings for 2014 showed an average eu gender pay gap of 16.7%, but ireland's pay gap was standing at 13.9%. i was very pleased that our new leader, leo varadkar, mentioned this as one of his priorities during his term as taoiseach. inequality affects people from all walks of life but equality, on the other hand, benefits our societies, our nations and our union. i'm going to have to face the consequences.
the president, is likely to go there to make a statement on the matter to be raised with the commission today. i said, 'well, i'm a commissioner, and i'm a member of the house, and maybe that's not ideal, but we should take the laws and talk about it in front of the whole of the european parliament, and it's not just the european union, it's the european union and the european cultural year.' so the commissioner's answer, i think, will suffice. we have an opportunity to promote culture, and i know i come from a country with a rich cultural heritage: our language, is often spoken in parliament here. our games, our music, our dance, our literature. i think the european year of culture will give us a great opportunity to promote that, as well as for other member states. the synergies involved will actually help us to grow both an appreciation of our culture and also the jobs etc. associated with it. but that doesn't mean we can't promote the year of eu-china tourism as well. china is the second-largest traveling group in the world in terms of tourism. they have a huge expenditure of 1.4 billion euros, and in my own country last year 60,000 chinese came to visit us. so of course we should have a promotion of eu-china tourism. also, while i completely agree that human rights is a major issue - we just spent two hours discussing human rights issues this morning - you can't say, on the one hand, because we're not happy with your human rights record we're not going to have any business with you; and, on the other hand, say: because donald trump pulled out of climate change and now you've taken leadership, we're delighted with you and we're going to cooperate with you. so these are all issues to be taken in tandem, but i definitely think that these two can work together, as the commissioner said, and i think it's going to be good for everybody.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 november 2017.
i would first like to welcome a delegation from the irish council of churches, a cross—border body representing different christian denominations on the island of ireland, north and south, who are in the distinguished visitors’ gallery. (applause) thank you for giving them a warm welcome. it is a coincidence that i am in the chair to make this announcement, but i am pleased about it. i would just add that our visitors are in brussels to have discussions with parliament and the commission. this dialogue is provided for in the treaties. i think it is also important to say that the churches on the island of ireland have played an important role in the peace process and this is something our parliament has strongly supported. only last week, we hosted a very positive exhibition showing the impact of eu peace funding in northern ireland and in the border region of ireland. so i would say to our visitors: you are very welcome, your visit is very timely, and please take back to your communities our message of continued support at this time. (applause)
before we come to the order of business, i have three colleagues asking for the floor. mr frunzulică, you have a point of order?
thank you for that important information.
thank you very much for that very important statement. as you know, president tajani is taking action and i think the word ‘respect’ is a word we should perhaps use more often.
if i may, colleagues, i am going to answer that question and it is ‘yes’.
this is a very serious issue. we have taken note and the plenary has given its support to those concerns, which we deeply share. i am now getting more requests for the floor. i really do not want a debate on this issue, but i will give the floor to mr krasnodębski.
thank you for that information.
i had mentioned that the final draft agenda was adopted by the conference of presidents on 15 november pursuant to rule 149 and has been distributed. having consulted the political groups, i propose a number of changes under rule 149a. today, the commission statement on the decision adopted on the fair taxation package ii (item 8 on the final draft agenda) is postponed. a commission statement on ‘deadly floods in attica and disaster relief aid’ is added as a third item. on thursday, the report by jens geier on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017 is included in voting time. the vote on sofia sakorafa’s report on the eu-lebanon agreement for scientific and technical cooperation: participation of lebanon in the partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean area (prima) is postponed. (parliament approved the changes.) in addition, for tomorrow, report no a8-0363/2017 by laura ferrara has been adopted in committee on legal affairs and has been included in voting time in accordance with rule 9(9). the order of business is thus established.
the next item is the report by siegfried mureşan and richard ashworth, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the budgetary conciliation committee, on the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2018 approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure (11815/201714587/2017 – c8-0131/2017 – 2017/2044(bud)) (a8-0359/2017).
i think, for clarification, the house would agree that the united kingdom is still a full member of the european union and remains so until the end of march 2019.
just an observation, mr coburn: in our history there were many horrors. i think colleagues would agree with that.
the president, the vice-president and the president of the commission have the opportunity to speak on this important subject in the 2018 budget, and the vice-president has also the opportunity to speak about an increase rather than a decrease. the council was elected, the parliament was elected and the parliament was elected. i'm not going to let you go. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new financial perspective to include the financial perspective for the period 2007-13 and the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. i think this is very important because it will cover initiatives proposed by parliament, especially on areas close to my heart horizon 2020, erasmus, cosme and interrail. these are largely new allocations, which i particularly welcome given the council's overarching focus on cuts and the only option in accordance with the political declaration signed in the context of the mff midterm review. however, horizon 2020 has brought significant technological progress, not least in clean energy technologies that will help us meet our targets and this is the best return of all the commitments we have. erasmus has massive uptake. my own country in particular has more and more students who gain experience that previous generations could not even have imagined by spending time in different member states. cosme is supporting a significant number of the smes that are the lifeblood of our economy. i also very much welcome the allocation for the youth employment initiative, increasing it to eur 350 million. i think this is a wonderful development and a potential increase is also mentioned in due course. finally i am very pleased parliament has dealt with important issues to me especially and my country: on young farmers, an increase of eur 34 million; climate, an increase of eur 95 million; and milk storage: an increase of eur 2 million. a great job! the rapporteurs deserve our praise and our gratitude.
mr president, i must say it is a pleasure to be here this evening in the company of so many meps who are working so hard to make the energy union a reality, as indeed are commissioners cañete and šefčovič and others. i am going to concentrate on renewable energy because i am honoured to be the rapporteur for the renewable energy directive for my group – the european people’s party (epp) – and i must say, in this regard, that europe is brimming with potential. i believe that the position the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) took on this directive yesterday can give the industry a needed boost and help us to fulfil president juncker’s ambition for the eu to be the world leader in renewable energy. it is now increasingly clear that the final energy targets for 2030 which we agree upon will see the ambition levels raised from those of the october 2014 council conclusions. on renewables there is a lot of debate to be held in the coming months, especially as we move to the trilogues. for me, it is important that we give the right signal to drive investments, but we must also consider the impact on energy prices that large increases in support for renewables will bring. in many instances, something absent from brussels’ discussions of renewable energy is the additional costs that a non-pragmatic approach can bring in terms of energy prices. therefore, maintaining eu competitiveness must go hand-in-hand with the transition to renewables. we must consider those who are seeking to heat their homes, and the energy-intensive factories that employ thousands upon thousands of europeans. if energy costs are made too high because of policy supports, and the blame is put on renewables, we will get nowhere. that is why i am pleased that we accepted a 35% ambition level in the committee on industry, research and energy yesterday. it is attainable and it was a bottom-line for the rapporteur, mr blanco lópez. we will be looking at issues like competitive systems of tendering, incentivising renewable self-consumption and developing renewable energy communities, as well as simplifying and shortening the approval processes for renewable energy projects. we are on our way!
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to firstly congratulate gunnar hökmark for this negotiation, which was brought about in the informal trilogue process but also as part of the banking package. i think it is important that the agreement that has been obtained across the house sends a strong message in terms of how we are going to deal with it, were a crisis to emerge again. it is absolutely clear, when one looks back on the financial crisis 2008-2009-2010 that we did not have the architecture, we did not have the rules, we did not have the instruments as a european union to respond to that particular crisis. coming from a country that went through an appalling banking crisis, where the irish taxpayers had to bail out the irish banking system to such a huge level, for us it is crucially important that we moved to a bail-in process. what i very much welcome about this particular instrument is that there is now clarity on the question on non-preferred debt but also on the categorisation of that debt and how that is to work. had we had that clarity at the time, as part of a bail-in regime, we would not have found the difficulties that were there for our economy – but other economies as well – going through that crisis. i think it is crucially important that this instrument is now in place, that there is agreement from the commission, the council and parliament on this matter. it is part of the banking package which now seeks to intensify further banking union, which has to be at the heart of all that we are trying to achieve as a modern economic bloc within the world and having these rules with such clarity allows us to do that. so my congratulations to my colleague, and to other colleagues who worked with mr hökmark and indeed the commission on this very important matter.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first i would like to thank helga stevens for her excellent and comprehensive report and her 100% cooperation. today we are discussing the implementation of the disability strategy in light of the ratification of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd). today parliament gives its perspective on progress to date so that the un crpd you can have real meaning for real persons with disabilities, in real time. by that i mean today, now. life is not a dress rehearsal for any of us and the same is true for persons with disabilities. when we speak about accessibility it must mean that services are accessible, that public spaces are accessible, that public transport is accessible, that technology is accessible, and so on. otherwise, we are saying to people with disabilities: we will improve accessibility in the future, we will improve accessibility when we have money, when we have time, when we have dealt with all the other urgent issues that need to be dealt with. but the truth is, accessibility is an urgent issue and it needs to be treated as such. this report contains many important recommendations, but because of time constraints i can only mention one or two. to me, the first and most important is that while we have the un crpd, the disability strategy, the marrakech treaty and, hopefully, soon the accessibility act, as the commissioner herself pointed out this morning, we have to ensure full implementation. other areas that i consider important include: reasonable accommodation; the mainstreaming of un crpd in all our legislation and then ensuring compliance with that legislation; and the guarantee that all eu funding programmes will be fully accessible. we need to eliminate the medical model of disability and promote a rights-based model. finally, we must ensure independent living for persons with disabilities. i am happy to say that next week, on 6 december, when this plenary will host a disability meeting, we can be pleased to discuss this report.
the president, having voted on the 2018 budget, has recommended that the president's budget be amended to include the following: i also feel that they are very good at creating jobs in the union, and especially that three hundred and fifty million jobs are now available for young people, and perhaps even more. it's very important to give air to the young people. freisin, it was clear that parliament had asked the council to take a decision and that we were not prepared to take any action on projects such as cosma, horizon 2020, or the sea. sin éacht maith agus ag deireadh na dála teaspann an jab seo go bhfuil cumhacht, i believe that you are going to be a member of parliament.
the uachtaráin, the commission's vote on the report is likely to be the largest in the union's history to come from the three countries. the instrument contributing to stability and peace was established in 2014 to support the european union's foreign policies. it contributes funding for crisis response, conflict prevention, peace-building and to address global threats. the instrument therefore plays an important role in eu foreign and development policy. the amending regulation introduces provisions to enhance the capacity-building of military aids in partner countries with eu funds in order to achieve peaceful and sustainable development of societies in concerned countries. i welcome the objectives of the proposal, which are to improve the capacity of partner countries to prevent and manage crises, to improve the effectiveness of eu development actions by working with all security actors, and to contribute to ensuring respect for the rule of law.
madam president, i strongly support this motion for resolution on the troubling situation in yemen. political negotiations are an important step towards stability in the region. while on the surface, instability in yemen may seem like a sectarian conflict, the reality is that conflict is deeply rooted in feelings of inequality and poverty, which have worsened the deep divides in yemeni society. the political environment is framed by the power struggle between the houthi movement religious group and the al-hadi government. the situation is having dire consequences on the yemeni people, and we must not ignore this. between a desperate security and economic situation, which includes widespread corruption and severe food and water shortages, the yemeni citizens are at breaking point. i believe that a mutually-acceptable political solution can resolve the current tensions, and we in the european parliament and the european union must do our utmost to resolve the issues quickly and effectively to avoid a civil war.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, generational renewal is the oft-used buzz phrase in the committee on agriculture, and i think that what we have done here does something to help generational renewal. young farmers now will be able to get five years of payment irrespective of when they apply, as long as it is within the first five years of their taking over the farm. although i say that they can get it, the council has unfortunately made a change concerning my country, the republic of ireland. as ‘shall’ has become ‘may’, we fear in our country that the generational renewal will end up getting nothing and ‘may’ will be never, but you’ve done your bit and congratulations on that. one thing, though, that young farmers don’t necessarily need is a crutch. what they need is to have the blocks taken off their back and to do that – and there is something done here – we need to strengthen farmers’ position in the food chain and their way to make money. whatever the profession, whether it’s hairdressing, carpentry, or anything else, you don’t ask why we can’t get people to go into it if there is no money: we know the answer. we need more money to come to farmers, and it worries me when i hear the commission say that it has misgivings about the whole idea of competition in this area, whereas there are no misgivings about supermarkets having a massive market share. there are very few misgivings about meat processors merging or the case in ireland that happened recently, when we were told, well it’s not european-wide. that needs to change if you want more young farmers. farmers are no different from anyone else. they want a fair price, and that’s how we get them interested.
mr president, jean—claude juncker likes to refer to pesco as the sleeping beauty of lisbon, but i am not sure exactly what the commission president finds beautiful about wasting billions of euros of public money on weaponry. i prefer it when he is more up front about his intentions, such as in 2015 when he called for an eu army. pesco and its references to structured cooperation belie what is really afoot: this is a war alliance – a war alliance dreamed up by imperialist nations like france who are still playing their imperialist games in africa. in 2008, the irish people recognised the threat posed by the lisbon treaty to their neutrality. they were forced to vote again on the basis that they would have constitutional protection that ireland would be excluded from any eu common defence programme. yet here we are in 2017, and the irish government has pandered to the eu and its arms industry by joining ireland up to the pesco war alliance and committing to increased military expenditure when we have people dying on our streets.
mr president, last week, with almost zero public debate, the fine gael—fianna fáil government signed ireland up to pesco. among the most ludicrous of arguments the proponents asserted was that we needed to sell off irish neutrality in order to show support for the eu and its values. since when did increasing national defence budgets, creating new military capabilities, fuelling the arms industry and compromising respect for human rights and democracy become core values of the european union? it is no coincidence that this military push is taking place, concurrently but entirely separately, to discussions on the future of europe. has democracy in the european union become such a farce that the response to growing disenchantment is to do exactly what was always intended, only quicker and with even less oversight than was originally envisaged? citizens want an eu that delivers for them, their families, their communities and their countries. there is no evidence that they want eu military expansion. (applause)
mr president, it is ironic but hardly surprising that, just as the panama papers inquiry is finished, we are now faced with an even bigger offshore leak: the paradise papers. we urgently need a new committee to examine those appleby revelations. let us remember that there is a human cost to this system that allows the ultra-rich to avoid contributing to society in any meaningful way and which deprives communities of the public services they need. in ireland, we have seen eight people die in the freezing cold on the streets in a period of 14 weeks as a result of a homelessness crisis largely caused by a lack of investment in social housing. our governments are not innocent bystanders in the corporate tax avoidance system. in many cases, they actively promote it. there is a political choice to be made by those in power. either shield the financial secrecy of the super rich, or promote the rights and wellbeing of communities. you cannot do both. this parliament has a role to play in setting the political agenda. we need to make the strongest possible statement calling for this rotten offshore system to be wiped out when we vote on this report.
the eu, while welcoming investment from governments, has not yet seen an efsi working on its behalf. the commission has not worked to create employment, it has not worked for the benefit of public services, it has not worked for the benefit of the financial sector and the environment, and it has not worked for the benefit of the investment made by the comharchumann sector, not for the social economy. we had to be strategic, we had to differentiate between the social and the legal aspects of the efsi and again, we made the decision to invest in private investors who were getting a bigger share of the profits. the efsi has been developed in the uk, and is now being deployed in the uk. over 8000 people in ireland have benefited from this funding, 3000 of them children, and it is a shame that there are no rialtas in ireland eligible for efsi funding. they're more than willing to give money to the poor in the world who have been fueled by their own hands. the total change in the investment culture of the region should be directed towards those who are in need. but i cannot support laws that are so simple and so effective.
mr president, i was pleased to vote in favour of this report. up until last year, obstacles were continually posed by third countries to european legislation being applicable to their airlines, and this was to the extent that aviation had never been applied to the emissions trading system (ets) in its original scope. eu provisions on flights between the eu and third countries have been suspended twice with a view to encouraging the international civil aviation organization process to agree on a global strategy to decrease aviation emissions. it is imperative that we take measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions, particularly from international aviation. this is essential to keep global warming below the two degrees above pre-industrial levels as agreed in the 2015 paris agreement on climate change, where i had the honour of representing this parliament. as the international aviation sector is a rapidly developing source of greenhouse gas emissions, this report marks a welcome step in parliament’s work on the eu ets, and i support the progress on the same.
mr president, once again i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to extend the duration of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which is indeed a very welcome development. i must thank also commissioner katainen for specifically mentioning me in relation to my promotion of efsi in my country. the fact it is being extended now is an indication of its success. if it wasn’t successful, we would not be extending it. sometimes i think people in this house are too slow to give credit where credit is due. this is a wonderful development. it has been used in my country and in many other countries and will continue to be used into the future, for which commissioner katainen and president juncker deserve great credit. one thing i would say, though, is that in extending it they should look at smaller projects, especially in smaller countries, because a small project in a small country can be relatively big in the overall context. this is a great development. i look forward to further promoting it in my country in the new year through public hearings.
madam president, i think the tone is wrong here. i have to say that this is a sad day as an irish citizen. this was meant to be a peace project and now it is to become a never-ending military project. and you’ve said it yourself, ms mogherini, missions can only grow into the future. will you be paying for them, or will it be the ordinary people of europe who can barely feed themselves who will be paying for it? it will be more cost, more resources, at a time in ireland where we have record homelessness figures, where we have record hospital waiting lists. we then have a so-called socialist, an s&d member, suggesting that this should become the most ambitious project of the union. what about food security? what about climate change? but no, the most important thing is military – weapons, guns and bombs. the language used by jean—claude juncker was no better. he used the word ‘beauty’. what’s beautiful about this? we should be spending the money on areas that need it, not on guns: on food, on housing and health. not on death. shame on you!
madam president, today’s debate is helping to provide some clarity. mr barnier, you were clear. you said there would be no going back and that last week’s agreement will be translated into a legal text. mr verhofstadt strengthened this by suggesting it should be done in the coming weeks, not months. with regard to the second strand, mr barnier, regarding northern ireland, again you were clear. you said we need a specific solution for a unique situation, and i agree. while the issue of no hardening of the irish border and the upholding of the good friday agreement are crucial, the agreement on citizens’ rights is of fundamental importance to all eu citizens, and to irish citizens living and/or working in the uk, those who have lived there, and to all cross—border workers. but we need trust to continue these negotiations in good faith. yes, we all recognise what political grandstanding is, but this process is way too important to be derailed by those who simply like the sound of their own voices.
i would like to start by thanking everyone in the irish republic for their support of the irish republic. the european council is the only institution in the world that has the power to make decisions on the basis of the treaty. as donald tusk said, there is no strength to go around and show that it is sin. the irish government, and indeed all of the irish people, are very happy with the practical and sensible agreement announced last friday, with the protection of the good friday agreement, in all its parts, the preservation of the common travel area and, above all, no hard border and full regulatory alignment to make that happen, which can be worked out in phase 2. also, something that has not been mentioned enough is the willingness of the european union to continue peace (programme for peace and reconciliation) and interreg funding into the future, post-brexit. and mentioning peace, we don't want a hard border because there has been too much blood spilled in ireland over the border, with a bloody civil war and 20 years of terror. no one wants to go back to that, and thanks to mr barnier, the irish government and, indeed, theresa may, that will not happen. finally, i would also like to say to theresa may that we appreciate her efforts in difficult circumstances to progress matters. hopefully, she will get the backing of all her colleagues because this is not a time for disunity. we in ireland are totally united, the european union is totally united, and those in the united kingdom have to stand behind theresa may. it's not helpful when people make statements that commitments are only statements of intent. a commitment is a commitment, a guarantee is a guarantee, and nothing else. finally, i would tell her that there is an old irish phrase also which says is binn béal ina thost: sweet is the mouth that is silent. she may, in her wisdom, teach some of her colleagues that old adage.
madam president, i shall try and set a good example. i want to say thank you to michel barnier, not from me, but from the people i represent, from those people who live in donegal, in louth, in cavan, in monaghan, in leitrim, the counties that border northern ireland, but also to the people of armagh, fermanagh, tyrone and derry, who link up with my constituents socially, from a business point of view, who see no invisible border, and want no visible border. through his patience and determination, mr barnier has secured for them a future of which they were very fearful. sometimes in this house those who grandstand, arrive and make great speeches, walk out and ignore the realities of what we are talking about here today. what happens will impact on people on the ground, and i hope that going into christmas we have given them more reassurances, not just around the ireland issue, but on citizens’ rights and financial commitments. it took your courage and determination, michel. have a good christmas. you did hard work.
madam president, there are undoubted positives that have come out of the phase 1 negotiations when it comes to ireland. commitments to no border, regulatory alignment and citizens’ rights are all positive. your statement, mr barnier, that there will be no going back is definitely a positive. but there is one thing that will drive this back, and that is triumphalism on either side. in particular, for people like manfred weber, i fear that his dislike of the uk is what drives him rather than his love for ireland. i think it is love for ireland that should drive it instead, because this is very important to us. when we talk about ties with great britain i don’t think people understand here how important it is. it isn’t about dependence, it is about co-dependence. i am a flanagan. my wife is a kelly. there were 20 members of my mother’s and my wife’s mother’s two families, and 19 out of the 20 went to work in london. three of my six siblings were born in london. we need each other. we depend on each other. we work together. manfred remember that with your triumphalism. it doesn’t help.
madam president, i rise to thank the 26 member states of the european union, michel barnier and his team and all of the institutions for their support for ireland over the course of this negotiation. this has been a successful negotiation where we have stayed clear and we have come together, and we are stronger together. on the behalf of my constituents in ireland we thank you for that solidarity and that support. the clear message from this debate, as demonstrated by mr barnier, is that there is no going back on the commitments that have been entered into by the eu and the united kingdom; no going back on the clear commitments for ireland; no going back on the clear two other priority issues for eu citizens’ rights and the question of finance. we have a duty now to reposition this debate, to go forward together. we need a new relationship with the united kingdom based on mutual respect, based on cooperation. just as europe has stayed loyal to ireland, so too will ireland stay loyal on the question of the integrity of the single market.
mr president, it is rather with more relief than pleasure that we can say sufficient progress has been made on the brexit negotiations. i fully supported this resolution, because it means we can move forward and in the new year we will face discussions on the transition phase and on a future partnership with the united kingdom. as has been said here in this house, we all want a good relationship going into the future with our uk neighbours and partners, but i will repeat my concerns around the ultimate solution to the irish border question. today, the united kingdom is part of the single market and customs union and the situation on the border is invisible, as we want it to continue. it would be the best solution to the conundrum if the united kingdom would remain in the single market and the customs union, although we know that if that is not the case they will still have to come forward with very unique solutions to solve this conundrum.
mr president, i supported the resolution today and i was happy to do so. i am pleased that we have reached a point where we can now say, as a parliament, that sufficient progress has been made in phase 1 and we can move on to phase 2. i want to thank michel barnier in particular and his team, and mr verhofstadt and his team here in the parliament, for their particular attention to the irish question, the good friday agreement, the need to ensure that no border would be put in place on the island of ireland. that was very important and the efforts that they made to understand that issue are to be commended and are well-recognised where i come from; we thank them for that. what has been stated now is that the status quo will remain on the island of ireland, that the freedom of the movement that is there between two communities will continue, that trade will continue unimpeded, and that this is very important and will remain for the future agreement, whatever that may be, between the united kingdom and the european union.
mr president, after six months of negotiations, the british have finally put their signature to something that recognises that different arrangements need to be put in place for the north of ireland – a form of special status, if you like – but they are already going back on it. i am pleased that this resolution calls them out on that, but we need to be very vigilant – that is the european parliament, the eu negotiators and the irish government. we all need to make sure that there is no going back on the commitments of last week’s communiqué. the north of our country cannot be pushed back or placed under the yoke of british self—interest once more. this resolution gives us the means to ensure that this does not happen. it gives us the means to protect the good friday agreement, including trade and open borders, as well as rights and equality. we are not there yet; we have not achieved the full outworkings of ensuring that all of ireland remains together within all the eu frameworks yet. the agreement provides the scope to achieve that. we must redouble our efforts if we are going to get to that essential position.
mr president, i think this is a very important element of european legislation and european policy, and it shows that europe is leading the way towards a modern social economy. we need a pillar of social rights for a social market economy to be successful and competitive, now and in the future as well, and that the living and working conditions in europe converge for the better for all. the world of work and our societies are changing fast with globalisation, digitalisation and changing work patterns, and also with communications. we have plenty of opportunities but we also have challenges, and we need to shape these developments and to make very good use of them. most of all, i think we need to make sure that economic and social developments go hand in hand and that europe continues to be a world-class place to live and to work. the proclamation of social rights by the social partners is very much welcome. i also think the social scoreboards are very welcome, because we know there is a wide divergence between member states when it comes to social rights, yet we must respect individual states to make decisions for themselves. i think it is very important that we set standards and lead by example and, indeed, set minimum rates. when we look at maternity leave, the highest amount is over 50 weeks, and yet in some countries paternity leave is not yet legislated for. i believe issues such as this, and the work-life balance, are extremely important, particularly from a female point of view. paternity leave, work-life balance: they encourage women to participate in the workplace, to participate in education, and all in all, increasing the social content and the social progress of our european states.
the president voted for my group's report. but without a doubt, i think the eu has a great responsibility to fight climate change and our emissions and pollution, and we have done a lot already. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the transport sector, including those in the public sector, in order to ensure that the conditions for equal treatment are met. the role of agencies in this issue is also likely to be reduced by at least six per cent by 2050. innovation will be an important part of the effective transport methods to be achieved. i'm not going to sing a song about a wedding, but i'll sing a song about a wedding, and i'll sing a song about a wedding. i may be the last speaker this year, but i hope i'm not the least.
