mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. i would first like to thank the gue/ngl group for having put me forward as a candidate for the presidency of the european parliament, a candidate who does not want to represent a group but wants to represent a hope that there can also be real discontinuity in the european parliament. i am a feminist, and a feminist can make a difference, not just to break the long line of jackets and ties that have sat on that screen, but can make a difference because full implementation, ratification of the istanbul convention, overcoming the gender pay gap, countering sexism and homophobia are and must be priorities in a european union where one in three women is subject to physical or psychological violence. putting self-determination for women, men and peoples back at the heart of the european project. i come from southern europe and austerity policies have turned the southern question into a continental question, they have marginalized entire peoples from the european project by means of debt blackmail. and yet, security policies have turned the mediterranean sea into a deadly frontier: five thousand people died in the mediterranean in 2016 alone. the european union is a disgrace and a guilt that cannot be erased. the first thing i would do as president of the european parliament? bring solidarity to the hdp mps in turkish prisons imprisoned by the erdogan repression, which the european union continues to fund in exchange for a blockade of migration flows. today all the presidential candidates are talking about the need for change, to end austerity policies. the great coalition is dead, we are told, in fact it is more or less orphaned, because none of the representatives of the three great groups which made it up, and even the outgoing president who guaranteed it, take responsibility for it. everyone asks us which candidate from the big groups we would support if i didn't make it to the final round. i ask you whether it is more likely that the people who were part of the grand coalition will be discontinued or those who have always criticised and opposed it, inside and outside the european parliament. i think that i can be the best guarantee of parliament's autonomy from the commission and the council, having never participated in any g5 - at most i have contested the g8 - of equal dignity for all members, of parliament's functioning not being blocked by agreement between the major groups, of parliament's real power of legislative initiative, of a revision of the treaties 60 years after those of rome, of the end of the waste of two seats for the european parliament. as president, i would give voice to all of this. but above all i would like to give voice to a generation, my generation, the generation that has known precariousness and unemployment, for which europe has never been the dream of altiero spinelli, but a nightmare, a nightmare of precariousness, of uncertainty and instability. i would like to be their voice, i would like to be the voice of that generation which marched through the streets of genoa, through the streets of prague, through the streets of thessaloniki, which went around europe saying that another europe is possible. the european parliament must not be a red zone, it must be a transparent house, it must be the home of those who believe that another europe is possible and as president of the european parliament i would like to work to build it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am running for president of the european parliament because i want a europe that is more courageous, a parliament that is stronger in the face of the great challenges of the world, a europe that is not afraid of diversity but encourages it. this parliament must be the forum for debate by and among all. that is why, whatever the outcome today, there will never again be a grand coalition, a privileged understanding between the great groups, because there is a need for clarity, because europe and our democracies need a clear and civil dialogue between different ideas and visions, which is different from instability and paralysis. if you elect me president, i will be the guarantor of this confrontation, i will put all the political groups and all of you, individually, in a position to express yourselves in the best possible way and to influence the decisions of this institution. i will work to make this parliament as inclusive as possible, i will be the president of everyone. i have a deep respect for diversity, i will support gender equality within this institution, i believe in transparency and i will do everything in my power to make this parliament a glass house. i believe in the community method, i believe in a loyal relationship of cooperation with the european commission, but i will ask that all the institutions fully respect the prerogatives of parliament. i will work for a parliament that engages citizens through large forums on the central issues of our lives, from the relationship between democracy and finance to sustainable development, climate change, culture. it will be a parliament projected to the world in these turbulent times to be a banner, a calm and powerful engine of peace, democracy, respect for human rights and hope, but it will also be a parliament capable of being with its members and its president wherever there is suffering and excellence, in schools and universities, in companies and among non-governmental organizations, in squares and in all democratic assemblies. i am more and more convinced that man, we, can solve even greater problems by sowing freedom and equality in the arid lands of disenchantment and disappointment and in those scorching despair. i am guided by the compass of faith in reason and science, in the intelligence of men and peoples, in the christian ethic of caring for people, community and the environment. ladies and gentlemen, i too come from a country in southern europe, from a small but dignified country, a village from which italy seemed far away and the life of the countryside was as hard as the coal that meets the stone and the hunger was such that over the years thousands of people were forced to emigrate, but always with their heads held high. this europe must change, and i know it, but the fact that i, who have come from so far, stand before you in this hemisphere with the high ambition of giving you a voice, of giving all of you a voice, despite everything, the dream that a more just and free europe is the hope of our peoples. i don't know what's going to happen today but know this, and i say this with all my heart, that if you elect me president, i will serve with head held high, with humility and with passion and gratitude, your hope.
mr president, i believe in europe, but we need to change. we need a strong parliament and we need a good president. we need a good speaker working for everybody. serve un presidente, non un primo ministro, un presidente che abbia esperienza, io metto a disposizione i miei 23 anni di lavoro in queste istituzioni, per difendere la volontà del parlamento di fronte al consiglio e di fronte alla commissione. quando sarò davanti al consiglio non esporrò le mie idee, esporrò le idee della maggioranza del parlamento, spiegando che c'è anche una minoranza che la pensa in maniera diversa e, prima di andare al consiglio, vi informerò su quello che intendo dire. i deputati avranno un ruolo importante da svolgere per avvicinare l'europa ai cittadini. abbiamo bisogno di un'europa più democratica, non possiamo rinchiuderci nel castello di bruxelles, dobbiamo andare verso i cittadini e avvierò una serie di iniziative per aprire le porte del parlamento ai cittadini, alle categorie, in modo che ci possa essere un confronto continuo tra deputati, tutti i deputati, e i cittadini europei. non ho un programma da presentare al parlamento, perché il presidente del parlamento non può avere un programma personale. il mio programma è il programma deciso dal parlamento, frutto dell'accordo interistituzionale con la commissione e il consiglio. si tratta di: lotta al terrorismo, soluzione dell'immigrazione, lotta contro il cambio climatico, l'agenda digitale, la politica energetica, il brexit naturalmente, dovremo essere molto equilibrati, difendere i diritti dell'europa, ma pensare che un domani la gran bretagna sarà un nostro importante interlocutore. e poi c'è la crescita e il lavoro, non possiamo dimenticare quanti disoccupati ci sono ancora nella nostra unione europea. non c'è libertà e non c'è dignità senza lavoro e anche noi dobbiamo dare un segno concreto. io ho cercato di farlo quando ho rinunciato alle indennità di mezzo milione di euro da commissario europeo, la mia indennità di buonuscita, perché mi sembrava ingiusto che di fronte a tanta gente che soffriva un commissario europeo incassasse una somma così importante. ma abbiamo fatto anche cose concrete... hemos trabajado mucho con los diputados españoles del principado de asturias para defender la industria de tenneco. cuando los americanos intentaban cerrar esta fábrica, nosotros hemos ganado: la fuerza de europa, la fuerza de todos los diputados. ahora hay más de doscientos trabajadores que trabajan en tenneco, en gijón. queste sono cose concrete che noi abbiamo fatto, dovremo andare avanti, ma anche il mio gabinetto, e concludo signor presidente, sarà immagine di ciò che voglio fare. ridurrò il numero dei membri del gabinetto del presidente, ci saranno lo stesso numero di donne e di uomini perché l'uguaglianza di genere è importante, ci sarà un membro dedicato ai rapporti con i deputati, ci sarà un membro dedicato ai rapporti con le terre più lontane, con le regioni più periferiche e con le minoranze linguistiche. e poi non possiamo dimenticare i valori. je pense qu’il faut conclure. je le ferai en langue française parce que je veux dire, de façon très claire, que je soutiendrai tous les députés et tous les groupes. je ne partage pas tout ce que m. voltaire a dit, mais il y a une phrase que je partage: «je ne suis pas d’accord avec ce que vous dites, mais je me battrai jusqu’à la fin pour que vous puissiez le dire». et cela vaut pour tous les députés et tous les groupes. pourquoi? parce que tel est le sel de la démocratie. il faut défendre la démocratie. j’y crois et sans démocratie, il n’y a pas de liberté pour nos concitoyens. la liberté, c’est la clé de l’union européenne, la clé de notre civilisation, la clé de notre histoire et la clé de l’avenir de l’union. (vifs applaudissements)
i would like to thank all of you, both those who voted for me and those who voted for my friend gianni pittella in this last part-session, and i also greet all those who voted for the other candidates of the various political groups. it was a democratic confrontation. i will be everyone's president, as i have said to you today, and i will respect all members and all groups. you can count on my total availability. i thank president martin schulz, i was his first vice-president and i believe i have always shown him great loyalty, as he has shown me, so i thank him for the work he has done. i would like to dedicate this result to the victims of the earthquake that struck my country, who are still experiencing great difficulties, it is very cold, not everyone has yet been able to solve their problem, so i think that a strong message of solidarity from this parliament should go to them, as it should go to all the victims of terrorism, without forgetting those who are suffering at this moment, whether they are homeless, the homeless, or those who are unemployed. i think that we must look at it and pay close attention and dedicate our work to all those who are in difficulty. i think that is a common feeling and the best message that strasbourg can send to our fellow citizens. thank you again for what you have done today by participating in a great democratic competition, tomorrow morning we will begin working together again for the good of our fellow citizens. i will of course keep all the promises i have made to you today, i will try to do my best and, of course, i will ask for the support of all the members who sit in this house.
the court is in session. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would like to thank the outgoing president, martin schulz, for his work and wish him all the best for his political career in germany.
the next item is the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. i have received the following applications: the commission has also received comments from the applicant, the applicant's representative in the european parliament, the european economic and social committee, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european parliament, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european parliament, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european parliament, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european parliament, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. the candidates have informed me that they accept their respective nominations. since there are more than 14 candidates, we'll proceed to the ballot box. the electors are the same people who voted for the president and i invite them to take their seats at the polls. they'll vote at the close of voting. i ask the services to check if there are any absentees from the electors chosen yesterday. i told you that the number of candidates is greater than the number of seats to be allocated. we must proceed, in accordance with rule 17 (1) of the rules of procedure, to a secret ballot. i would remind you of rule 17 (1) of our rules of procedure: 'the vice-presidents shall then be elected by a single ballot. the candidates who obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast shall be elected on the first ballot, up to a maximum of 14 members, in the order of the number of votes cast. if the number of candidates elected is less than the number of seats to be allocated, a second ballot shall be held in the same manner for the allocation of the remaining seats. if a third ballot is necessary, the election shall be by a relative majority for the seats remaining to be allocated; in the event of a tie, the oldest candidates shall be declared elected. "are all the electors present? that's great. i'll ask the ushers to distribute the envelopes and cards. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. since there are 14 vice-presidents, it is important that members have 14 votes at most. any ballot with more than 14 votes is void. i would remind you that under rule 15 (1) of the rules of procedure, in the case of a single ballot for the allocation of several seats, the ballot is valid only if more than half the votes available have been cast.
the ballot box is missing mr sánchez. is mr sánchez present in the chamber, madam president? otherwise i'd have to pull another name. the honourable member is on his way. i repeat, since there are 14 vice-presidential seats to be allocated, you must vote for at least eight candidates, otherwise the ballot will not be valid. if less than eight names are selected, the card, i repeat, will be considered null. if a member decides to rectify his vote, he may ask an usher for a new ballot, which will be given to him in exchange for the wrong ballot, which will be destroyed. the presence on the form of any type of writing or sign or the indication of more than 14 votes or less than 8 votes shall result in the cancellation of the votes. the ballot is open.
we're about to close the polls. are there any members who have yet to vote? did everyone vote? there is no delay. i therefore call the vote to order. i would ask the voters to go to room r1.1 to examine the cards. this court is adjourned. the bell will ring when the sitting resumes and an announcement will appear on the screens to inform members that the sitting is about to resume. (the sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed after the tables were turned for the announcement of the results.)
the court is in session. before announcing the outcome of the vote, in apologising for being late, i wanted to inform all of you, but particularly the italian members of parliament, that there has been a strong earthquake in central italy. early reports indicate no casualties; there are no specific rescue calls. i'm in contact with the italian authorities, but it seems that the strong earthquake, of magnitude 5.6, which was felt throughout central italy and also in rome, did not cause any casualties, so this is already good news. i would like to inform all members of what has happened and why i am a little late to your meeting. (the sitting was resumed at 11 a.m.)
i now announce the results of the ballot for the election of vice presidents: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. this is the result: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. mr gáll-pelcz, who received 310 votes; mr gebhardt, by 315 votes; mr guillaume, 335 votes; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr liberadzki, by 378 votes to one; mr lunacek 291 votes; the other two are against. mr mcguinness 466 votes; mr papadimoulis, by 274 votes to one; mr paşcu, by 282 votes; mr sassoli, by 377 votes; mr tarand, by 220 votes; mr telička, by 313 votes to one; mr valcárcel siso, by 323 votes to 32; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the results show that there are still seats to be allocated, but the absolute majority of the votes cast went to mr mcguinness, mr liberadzki, mr sassoli, mr wieland, mr guillaume, mr czarnecki, mr valcárcel siso, mr gebhardt, mr telička and mr gáll-pelcz. i congratulate all these colleagues on their election. four seats are still to be allocated. a second round is therefore necessary. if there are no comments, i consider the first round of applications to be accepted. are there any comments? well, then, the applications for the first round are maintained and i propose that we set the deadline for the submission of applications for the second round at 12.30. the second part will take place at 1.30 p.m., after the speech of the president-in-office, mr muscat.
the final draft agenda adopted by the conference of presidents on 12 january pursuant to rule 149 has been distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda: the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in brussels on 14 and 15 december. this item will be replaced by statements by the council and the commission on emergency aid for refugees and migrants facing adverse climatic conditions in european refugee camps and will be moved from thursday morning. are there any objections? the amendments are hereby approved. i also received the following request for wednesday, the greens/efa group has asked that the vote on the commission delegated regulation amending commission delegated regulation (eu) 2016/1675 supplementing directive (eu) 2015/849 by identifying high-risk third countries with strategic deficiencies be moved from thursday to wednesday. i give the floor to mr sargentini to present the request of the green group.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. so i thank you for your intervention. i now put to the vote the request by the green group to move the debate on the regulation from thursday to wednesday. so those who vote for it, vote for this debate to be moved from thursday to wednesday, those who vote against it, vote to keep the agenda as it is. who is in favour of the greens/efa proposal? who's against? it seems to be rejected, but if you want to check it out, we'll check it out. the vote is open. the vote is closed. the proposal was rejected, so the agenda is not changed.
there is no need to vote on this, so it is a request that does not change the agenda. so let us now turn to the numerical composition of the standing committees, and welcome president juncker.
the proposal was clearly rejected by, i think, 30 votes, so it was very clear on my monitor. i am sorry that it has not been checked, but i will have it checked immediately by the services so that, even if it is used for the next vote, all members will be able to read it on the screen, if the services can provide it. thank you for the report, mr. berès.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
we must vote on the number of members of the standing committees. the proposal for a decision submitted to the conference of presidents, paragraph 1, point 3 concerns the committee on international trade, there is amendment no 1. who's for it? who's against? who abstains? i'm with you. let's check this out. the vote is open. the vote is closed. it's approved the decision as a whole. who's for? who's against? who abstains? i'm with you. thank you, sir. the agenda is set as agreed.
absolutely, we're sending some service managers right away to check and possibly fix any technical problems that we have.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the maltese presidency's work programme (2016/2791 ((rsp)).
mr president, i thank you for your message. i also want to thank you for your commitment to my fellow citizens who were victims of the earthquake. thank you very much! i also thank the european union for its commitment to the reconstruction of the basilica of st benedict of norcia.
for your information, since we're behind schedule, i'm not granting the blue card. i hope, if everyone respects the deadline, that we can give more time to speak during the catch-the-eye, so that colleagues who wish to speak can do so by registering for the catch-the-eye, but we are far behind schedule.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i was initially impressed by your speech, prime minister, but then i ask you, did i hear you correctly? is the agreement with turkey a model for you? a clearly illegal agreement, as it lacks a legal basis, not voted on by this parliament, disguised as a mere press release or a quasi-treaty, depending on the circumstances, with a country which has a clear authoritarian streak and which crushes the rights of the opposition, which crushes civil society, shuts down the media, arrests parliamentarians and, in a certain sense, does nothing but blackmail and threaten us, given that certain countries have made their electoral interests prevail over the interests of all of us as the union as a whole? and who do we exhibit it with? perhaps with egypt still silent about the barbaric murder of giulio regeni a year later, or with libya in chaos? the real priority, mr prime minister, is that those countries which have violated the legality of the decisions and the morality of solidarity must be held to account and that we support those countries on the southern shore which are truly consistent with our values, as tunisia has done so far. malta may be a small country demographically, but it can achieve great things if it has the consistency, if it has the commitment and if it puts an end to the hypocrisy of recent years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, prime minister, thank you for your comments on the priorities for the next six months of the presidency. among these, the pressure of migration flows remains one of the most sensitive problems, especially for countries in southern europe, such as my own country, italy, greece or your own country. in this connection, the world day of migrants and refugees has focused on the high number of unaccompanied minors, who, as we know, are in greater need of attention and protection. the union must therefore take responsibility for migration and there must be effective and effective legislative instruments to deal effectively with the migration crisis. i am referring in particular to the modification of the dublin system. the current proposal, although it contains some positive elements, does not seem to be suitable for providing adequate support to countries of first arrival and is certainly not suitable for protecting unaccompanied minors. more ambitious reform is needed. i trust in your commitment and wish you a good job.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me first congratulate you on your election. prime minister, deputy prime minister, ambassador, i shall be very short. it is clear that your presidency has strong support from members of parliament. also, as our president juncker said, you have a strong ally in the european commission. we do appreciate, as president juncker said, your strong emphasis on the social agenda, especially when you want to review our previous proposals on various fields, such as the participation of women in the labour market, prioritise the pillar on social rights, the posting of workers, the coordination of social security systems, and also when you have decided to have a ministerial meeting on the subject of sexual minorities. so it is very important for the eu as a whole, and it is very important for our citizens, to see that the presidency is giving such high priority to the social agenda. another issue i would like to raise – and which was referred to here by many members – is the security agenda: security and migration issues. but i also want to thank you for our last visit to malta, to valletta, when we had a chance to discuss the defence agenda. i know that malta may have some constitutional issues with the defence policy as such, but i had a chance to discuss with the finance minister and the minister on the economy about defence investments, and that is something that everybody can share. there is a strong need for stronger european defence policies, but also a strong need for defence cooperation in defence investments in order to save money at the same time as making our continent more responsive, more secure, stronger and capable of addressing the challenges or threats coming from outside europe. i also want to thank you for prioritising internal market issues, single market—related issues, because those are european-level structural reforms which will reshape europe, and which will strengthen our capability to modernise our economy. the internal market is a way to create new jobs, but it also creates more competition and gives more opportunities to consumers and to our companies, so that is why we appreciate your strong support for the work of the commission in this field. i just want to mention that we have just disclosed our services and internal market package, and that is one part of the entire internal market agenda. you have also emphasised your willingness to work with the european parliament on the efsi 2 proposal. let’s hope that parliament can finalise the internal processes as soon as possible, and then the trilogues can start during your presidency, and it would even be possible to have a final conclusion approval of the legislation later on in your presidency. finally, i want to thank you for your support on ceta agreement trade policy even though there is growing opposition to trade, but it is the way to govern globalisation. free trade doesn’t mean trade without rules. actually, free trade means trade with rules, which enables trading partners to have an easier trading environment, and this is the way we can govern globalisation and make it more socially and environmentally responsible. so thank you very much for your excellent job, and this is a good start to your presidency.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i found today’s exchange to be as colourful as i remember this plenary to be. i will try to touch on most, if not all, of the issues that have been raised by my friends. first of all, i would like to thank the leaders of the different groups for their extremely positive welcome and the extremely positive words they had for this presidency. i will start with migration once again. i know this is an extremely thorny issue – not only at european level, but in each and every one of our member states. it is an extremely emotional issue, and perhaps stirs up all the wrong sentiments. this is where the battlegrounds for the next elections in our member states and elsewhere will be played for at least the next generation. so whatever we do today has a short-term impact on the composition of the different institutions and the different governments in our member states, and it cannot be underestimated. but if we wait for a total solution – for a perfect solution with no shortcomings to be found – we are condemned to go round in circles and stay in the same rut. my point today was – and still is – that we may have ideological differences – actually, we might have moral differences – on the way we approach this issue. some of us may see it as more of a humanitarian crisis, while others see it as a security issue. maybe we are both right. my point goes beyond that. that is the ideological discourse. that is the long-term. in the long term, we are all dead. in the short term, in three months’ time, we will have another crisis. i am the first to hope that i am completely wrong on this. i am the first to hope that, come next spring, it will be business as usual with maybe a few crossings that one, two, three or a maximum of four member states can take in. but i’m afraid that i will not be wrong, and the situation is that we either take a decision now or we will have to take a much bolder decision when there is a crisis, and when there are hundreds of thousands of people putting pressure on governments, communities and our families, and when we will need to take decisions that may not be well thought out. this is really the last train we can catch to do something which is structured when it comes to the collective handling of the migration crisis. money alone will not do it. so simply thinking that migration, the impending crisis and the fact that even if we do something now it is not a long—term solution, and thinking that this can be solved by throwing more money at the problem, is delusional. that is not what this is about. this is about border control. this is about having a new system to share the burden. this is about creating humanitarian corridors where and when necessary. this is about acknowledging the fact that, if we even throw around the concept of building walls that has been used by some member states – which i personally disagree with, but i will not judge that member state for doing that – as a country with a maritime border, we cannot build a wall in the sea. i am sorry to break it to you, but when my navy people call me at night, they do not ask me whether they can turn the people back or not. they just tell me that we need to save the people from drowning. if we allow this to happen again – not hitting these criminal gangs where it hurts, not engaging with the countries on the southern littoral of the mediterranean – we are in for more trouble. we are inviting more trouble by trying to postpone the issue until there is a perfect solution. there will be no perfect solution for dublin. there will be no perfect solution for border control. there can only be progress if we really accept one another’s views. i need to accept people’s views where i might have some ideological differences, but at this point in time we need operational solutions that have been missing so far. our aim, as the maltese presidency, is to try to achieve progress. i think that we were mostly on the same page on brexit. on taxation, i would tell my colleagues that i totally refute the label of ‘tax haven’ or ‘offshore’ for my country. our country’s tax system was approved by the european commission after being thoroughly examined before membership more than a decade ago, so i do not see why things that were approved pre—membership are now a problem. i have every respect for my colleague, mr casa. i understand his speech. this concerns local politics, and i do not think that we should deal with it here, but we will have all the time in the world to have a healthy political fight back home. back here, i want to stress one final point on the issue of the social agenda, the social pillar of the commission, and the issue of free trade. i do not see these as contradictory aims. i actually see these as complementary aims. it is through free trade that we can create more growth and more jobs. usually, i have felt a bit out of tune with my social democratic family in being a very clear advocate of free trade, but seeing that even the president of china is an advocate of free trade, i feel a little bit more at ease in saying that free trade is good if it is properly regulated. i think that the main issue on which we should focus right now is not trying to be protectionist. social europe does not mean protectionist europe. it does not mean withdrawing from the world. it does not mean trying to put up barriers to what we have achieved so far. social europe means that the growth and the well-being that we create through free trade needs to be distributed in an equal – or at least a fair – manner. this was missing for many years in our member states. all the well-being that was created through the policies that were advocated, even by this institutions, did not percolate through the system, and we have to admit that the belief in only a trickle—down economic approach did not work. so, will we find a solution to all this in the next six months? obviously not. what we want to do is to set the ball rolling in the right direction and build on the good work that has been done by our predecessors. one final point to parliament, rest assured that the political presence of council within parliament will be assured as much as possible, because we want a genuine dialogue with you. (applause)
the debate is closed. the sitting was adjourned until 1:30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i welcome the programme of the maltese government to the presidency of the european council. in particular, i appreciate the emphasis on the need for a programme to address the current migration crisis. like italy and greece, malta has suffered first-hand the impact of the migration crisis and is therefore directly aware of the challenges and the need for solidarity between member states, an essential european value. i therefore hope that the maltese presidency will give priority to the revision of the dublin iii regulation and to an effective and fair sharing of the burden of migration flows which at present almost exclusively falls on the states of first arrival. i would also stress the importance of the social dimension of the maltese project and the need for this dimension to be reconciled with policies that will bring about economic growth. the key factor will therefore be the allocation of adequate financial resources to support these objectives. i am sure that the maltese presidency will prove to be an important partner, able to actively involve the european parliament in european decision-making processes.
in writing. the maltese presidency begins at a particularly strategic moment for the future of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. illegal immigration and the right to asylum are two priority issues that need to be addressed rapidly, also thanks to the implementation of the european agenda on migration. in this context, it will be necessary to follow up on a new partnership framework with third countries in order to save lives in the mediterranean and increase the rate of returns to countries of origin and transit. the maltese presidency's initiative to take up the question of immigration and the new euro-mediterranean policies in valletta in february is a welcome one. we are hopeful that concrete results will be achieved at this summit.
the second round of elections for the vice-presidents of the european parliament is on the agenda. we haven't received any other applications. i'd like everyone to take their seats. we shall of course proceed to the vote and i ask the electors to take their seats at the polls, where the vote will take place. i ask if there are any voters in the chamber, at the polls, if there are any missing. everybody's here, so let's get started
ladies and gentlemen, if everyone has voted, we can adjourn the sitting for the vote. i believe there are no other members who have to vote, so i would ask the electors to go to room r1.1 to examine the ballots. the sitting was adjourned and the resumption of the sitting was announced by the ringing of the traditional bell and by an announcement on the screens. (the sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. for the counting of the votes and resumed at 3 p.m. for the announcement of the results)
the court is in session. i'm announcing the results of the second round of voting for the vice presidential election. number of voters: 672 is the number. blank or blank sheets: 34 years. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 638. what is it? absolute majority of votes: three hundred and twenty. i 'll read you the votes of the various candidates: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr papadimoulis: 469 votes; mr paşcu: 517 votes; mr tarand: 261 votes to one. mr paşcu, mr papadimoulis, mr lunacek and mr lambsdorff are hereby elected to the committee. they have obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and i therefore proclaim them elected vice-presidents of the european parliament on the basis of the second ballot and i warmly congratulate these colleagues on the result achieved. in accordance with rule 17 (2), the order of precedence of the vice-presidents is determined by the order in which they were elected and, in the event of a tie, by their age. the composition of the new bureau will be notified to the presidents of the institutions of the european union. as regards the election of quaestors, i suggest that you set the deadline for the submission of applications at 4 p.m. applications should be submitted to the deputy secretary-general in office r00101, the open space of the presidency in the louise weiss building. the first round of the election of quaestors will take place from 4.30 p.m.
the agenda shall include the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 15 december 2016 (2016/2789 ((rsp)). before i give the floor to president tusk, i would like to welcome him, this is the first time i have had the opportunity to meet him as the new president of parliament, and i will give him the floor immediately.
before i give the floor to mr niedermüller on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i should like to say that, given the delay and the fact that we have to vote at 4.30 p.m., i cannot give the 'blue card' and therefore i will not give it to anyone. let's see if we can catch the eye. i call mr niedermüller to speak.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council's report presents a view of the results of recent immigration policies in terms that are absolutely incomprehensible, almost grotesque, especially when viewed from the point of view of the reality of my country, italy, in relation to which the council's own figures show that 181 000 immigrants arrived in our country in 2016 alone, an increase of 20% compared with the already significant figures of the previous year, but above all an assessment, certainly generous, of as much as 80% of economic migrants and only 20% of asylum seekers, many of whom, when examined by the competent authorities in my country, are found to be ineligible. this shows that there is a very serious, i would even say dramatic, reality. we are also thinking of the impact on the social situation of a country like italy, which is devastated by problems such as terrorism and, more recently, by problems caused by earthquakes. so we have to change this failed immigration policy completely.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to judge positively the outcome of a council which has focused mainly on migration issues, and all this in the light of what is happening at europe's external borders. thousands of people are stranded between greece and serbia in desperate humanitarian conditions. yet, member states renewed their commitment last december to supporting member states along the western balkans route, as well as to intensify efforts to accelerate relocation, in particular of unaccompanied minors, and existing resettlement programmes. solidarity is a fundamental principle of our system of government and not a mechanism to be triggered when a member state is overwhelmed. i hope that the end of your presidency will also be the end of the 'flexible' principle of solidarity and that in future the immigration summits will be followed by concrete acts of taking responsibility for a phenomenon which must be managed in its entirety.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to congratulate you on your re-election. many members have painted our future in quite dark colours. many members have also referred to what president donald trump or others have said. our thinking is that we should not let others define what europe is about. let us not let others define or say where we are going. it is our own responsibility to take this union and this continent in the direction we want to develop in. a very positive statement came from germany this week: chancellor merkel said that europe’s fate is in our own hands. this is something we all must remember at the moment. let us not pay too much attention to what others are saying about us. let us shape our own future. in times like this, someone should represent the voice of common sense and responsibility. that is why our institutions play a crucial role. it might be politically interesting to comment on other people’s speeches or statements, but we have to concentrate on delivering on the issues which will reshape our continent and our union. even prime minster may has said that she does not hope that other countries will follow the uk’s example because, according to her, a strong eu is important to the uk. if you have a look at the latest eurobarometers, our citizens are showing very strong leadership at the moment. many people think that the eu should have a bigger role in counter—terrorism and that the eu should pay more attention to defence and to social justice and equality. many of our citizens think that the eu should play a bigger role in energy policy and, of course, in the fight against climate change and on migration issues. if we look at our ambitious agenda today – for instance, our latest proposal on services, the digital internal market, the energy package, low-carbon mobility, the circular economy, border control and defence – it is fair to say that europe will be more closely integrated in five years’ time than it is at the moment. and this is only because of a pragmatic approach: we have to do things which will reshape europe to be more prosperous and secure. finally, regarding a few issues on efsi, some mistakes were presented in today’s debate. somebody said that efsi has not achieved the goals which were set for it. on the contrary, so far, efsi has financed operations in 28 member states, with around eur 30 billion. this will mobilise around eur 164 billion in additional real investments on the ground. as part of this eur 30 billion, there are 250 agreements between efsi and intermediary banks in various member states which will mobilise financing for 380 000 european small-and medium-sized enterprises. so efsi is doing what it should do. that is why it is very important that parliament also concludes its internal work with the efsi 2.0 proposal. (applause)
president of the european council. – madam president, i will make just two short remarks. first of all, i would like to thank you for your clear and wide support for our common future strategy in the brexit negotiations. i think this is very important as a signal, not only to public opinion, but also to our 27 member states. i think that one of the most important things to show today may be that you are really united when it comes to a brexit strategy, as are the institutions. thank you. i think this was a really important signal. secondly, i have heard some suggestions here that we should, as institutions, react to the latest interview with the us president-elect, but i am afraid that we will have too many opportunities to comment on the words of us president – and no longer president—elect – trump. i am afraid that will be our daily work. (applause)
in writing. i shall dwell on three issues addressed by the december council. on the issue of migration, commitment to the eu-turkey deal is not enough! the question of the refusal by some governments to implement the european decision on the quotas for the relocation of the 160 000 refugees from italy and greece must be resolved, and the financial mechanisms of the migration compacts with the african countries of origin and transit of migrants must be better implemented. the council called for the continuation of the youth guarantee, but did not anticipate new initiatives to promote youth employment in the areas of youth mobility, education and skills development. finally, there is security. unfortunately, there are no commitments for investment in the development of technologies of strategic importance in cybersecurity, nor in the land, air, sea and space sectors. there is a need for greater cooperation between member states and greater sharing of national resources. europe must be europe, and if it does not take responsibility for its own security, no one else will.
i will ask the vice-president who was in charge of the proceedings what happened, and i will also have the full text in the mother tongue because we must always check that there are no errors or forcing in the translation, with all due respect to our interpreters, but if there has been any breach of any rules we must be sure that this has happened, so i will ask the services to check and i will speak to the vice-president who was in charge of the proceedings to find out what happened. i will of course ask the member who said that to know what he actually said, so thank you for pointing it out but of course everything will have to be checked.
as i said, mr president, i made a commitment to the whole house that i would respect every member and that there would be no punitive treatment of any member, so when i was informed of a report, i said that it would be checked in the original language. your language is swedish and so if you say so there is obviously a misunderstanding, but we will check and i will let both you and the honourable member know what the facts are, if there is a translation error. i believe what you say, so obviously there was a misunderstanding in the interpretation, perhaps from one language to another, so, again, from my side there is no prior judgment against anyone. as i said, i will check, i will have the original language checked, not the translation, so if, as you said, there was a misunderstanding no problem.
i understand your question. we have five candidates for five seats, but since there's an order to be made, we have to vote and then express at least three preferences.
so, wait a minute. i repeat, when you make accusations, you must always have proof, it is not enough to have newspaper articles to accuse someone because here we always have to... please, please... sit down please, sit down please, sit down please. i was silent when you spoke, so please listen to what i have to say. so, i'm against accusing people when there's no evidence. we must have legal evidence, not newspaper evidence, so if there are cases, for any candidate, for any office, if there are questions of incompatibility they will be checked, but i repeat, i am against any use of the press to harm another member of parliament. as i said in the previous question, we had to check in swedish what exactly was said, so if there are problems of incompatibility someone will write, but it must not be newspaper articles but concrete evidence, so as far as i am concerned, as there is no concrete evidence at the moment, the application is acceptable and so we shall see. your honor, if you have anything to add, you said some very specific things, write a letter and prove that what you say is true.
you send a letter, the vote is not suspended, the nomination is now admissible, you write a letter and prove what you said.
i said that as far as i was concerned your candidacy was acceptable, since there was no evidence to show that you had committed any breaches of the rules, so for me you are a candidate. if someone can prove otherwise, we shall talk about it in a newspaper article now. it is always necessary to prove that someone is guilty, not to ask someone to prove that he is not guilty.
the next item is the election of the quaestors of the european parliament. i have received the following applications: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the candidates have informed me that they accept their respective nominations. now, let's get down to business. please pay attention. i will speak slowly so that the interpretation may also be clear. since the number of candidates does not exceed the number of five seats to be allocated, the candidates shall be elected by acclamation in accordance with article 15 (1) of the rules of procedure. however, i propose that we take a vote to establish the order of precedence, so if you agree we will take a vote. i proclaim the quaestors i have just mentioned elected, and i congratulate them on their election, but i would now like to move on to the question of the order of precedence of the quaestors, since it is only a question of defining the order of precedence. the qualified majority is not required for this vote. so if you agree, i proclaim the quaestors elected and i would now proceed to establish the order of precedence, as is done for vice-presidents, by secret electronic voting. to enable members to become familiar with the electronic system, we shall run a test. i would remind you that under rule 15 (1) of the rules of procedure, in the case of a single ballot for the allocation of several seats, the ballot is valid only if more than half the votes available have been cast, that is to say, if there are five candidates, you must express at least three preferences. instructions for using electronic voting have been distributed. the following information appears on the screen after the ballot has been opened: the subject of the vote, the list of candidates, the number of seats to be allocated. you must place yourself on the name of the chosen candidate by pressing the blue buttons on the right side of the screen or the touch buttons on the right side of the screen and express your vote by pressing the "+" button, which is the left button on the terminal. the blue alert will be activated and an asterisk will be displayed in front of the name of the selected candidate. the vote counters show a decrease, only the most favorable votes are counted. to ensure the confidentiality of the vote, the asterisk disappears when the cursor is moved. to abstain, press the "0" key, which is the center key. before the announcement of the closure of the ballot, it is possible to change the choice made by standing on the candidate's name and pressing the "+" button again to cancel the favorable vote. then, stand on the name of another candidate and press the "+" key or press the "0" key to abstain. you can't vote against a candidate. to view all the candidates for whom the member has voted, press the blue button at the bottom of the screen on the left. if i press the button a second time, the asterisks will not appear. i think that's clear. you're all pretty experienced. now some names will appear that don't match the candidates. let's try this. unfortunately, the name of pavarotti, who is deceased, was inserted... all right, let's try the vote. the ballot is open. did you all vote? the vote is closed. you see the result, let's show the result on the screen if possible. let's see how many votes the candidates got. we shall now vote on the definition of the order of precedence. i remind you that you must express at least three preferential votes. if less than 3 names are selected, the vote is void. the ballot is open. many members have not yet voted. did you all vote? there are many ballots, but not all of them voted. so, the ballot is closed. i'll let you know what we find. 562 voted in. the vote was 51 to none. 511 valid votes are cast. they obtained the following result: mr morin-chartier, by 459 votes; mr kovatchev 432 votes; the other two are against. mr maňka 332 votes; mr bearder, by 313 votes; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. all of them were naturally elected, and i congratulate all of you, and we shall have a chance to work together fruitfully over the next two and a half years.
following consultations with the political groups, and in view of the fact that not all the elections for the election of vice-presidents and quaestors have been necessary, i would like to propose that the house move the start of the discussions this evening to 8 p.m. are there any objections? the agenda, as amended, is approved. (the sitting was suspended at 4.50 p.m. and resumed at 8.00 p.m.)
the agenda includes the discussion of the council statement on the state of play of the negotiations on the financial transaction tax (2017/2503 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that there is a clear concentration of money in the financial markets, which has been further increased by the injection of liquidity by the central banks in this period, is obvious, just as the disparity between this enormous financial market and the real economy is obvious, and therefore the way in which certain wealth is concentrated in a disproportionate way. furthermore, we see how these markets are very often not used to create, generate a virtuous economy, but to simply create betting and speculation. so i think that the will of the people is already very clear about the objective that policy must have and so it is all a matter of our will, of all the member states, not only european but also global, to try to put an end to this inequality. it's also one of the big issues that they're discussing today in davos, inequality and trying to solve this problem. so the people have already spoken, because if we hold a referendum on this it is obvious that they would like financial speculation to end and that justice be done with a small tax that can also provide a deterrent to speculation and that is used to redistribute wealth. so it is a question, i repeat, of political will only, it is up to us, it is up to the ministers and it is up to all those who represent the citizens in europe and in the world.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with great interest to what the council, the commission and my colleagues have said about how they would like this financial transaction tax to be structured. but i think that we must first of all reflect politically on this subject, because once again the debate on this subject shows that the european union is incapable of putting forward concrete proposals for the benefit of the citizens. once again we have a proposal which would make a lot of sense, which would be very easy to implement, and economists and nobel laureates have already debated and made proposals on this, but europe has not been able to bring home a result in six years. this shows that these institutions, like the commission, like the council, are old institutions that are not able to respond and make legislative proposals to overcome the problems of the citizens. once again, the financial transaction tax proves this. and this has a reason, in my view, which is very important and fundamental, namely the influence that the lobbies and especially the financial lobbies have on these institutions. if we are at this point today, in this deadlock, on the financial transaction tax, it is clear that it is also the fault of this rotten and corrupt system which today affects the european institutions. 2017 will be a year of change, we really hope that the elections in many european countries will give a strong signal also to carry forward proposals in favor of the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial transaction tax requires closer cooperation between the member states. the cost of non-europe in terms of lack of harmonisation and disincentives to more speculative financial activities is very high and not directly perceptible and contributes to undermining the free movement of capital and the orderly functioning of the internal market in financial services. i have been concerned for some time with the reduction of speculative activity, which i consider to be an obligation to be achieved also through the introduction of deflationary mechanisms such as taxation. in fact, in one of my first questions of 3 september 2014 on high-frequency trading, i called for stronger regulation of financial markets and supported the priority of preventing the misuse of the financial system for illicit purposes. i believe that one of the main factors that disturbs the markets and also weakens confidence in the real economy is the extreme volatility of stocks and options, bonds, derivatives and commodities. in any case, the introduction of the supplementary issue principle alongside the residence principle should be examined.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. i ask the commission to listen to amnesty and the refugee community leaders in moria, that migrants in the greek islands be moved to the mainland and not to camps without electricity and water. the eu-turkey agreement does not provide for returns from the islands, as erdogan is calling for. in these circumstances, refugees in europe should not be sent back to greece and italy to comply with dublin. let us finally say that this is not a refugee crisis but one of our policies of asylum, of resettlement, of family reunification, of respect for the right to life. commissioner, this cold winter was not unforeseen. with the refugees in moria i call for an end to the deportation of the most vulnerable to turkey and for all the procedural guarantees to which applicants are entitled to be guaranteed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a few days ago i saw a video of an asylum seeker in the moria camp on lesbos. hundreds of people forced to sleep in unheated tents, under snow, without food, without treatment. it is clear that the emergency instrument you have mentioned is not sufficient in this situation. i call on you to increase it and to monitor how the commission's funds are used to ensure immediate human living conditions. msf and many other ngos are reporting serious situations in other parts of greece, including serbia, where at -20 degrees more than 3 000 people live in abandoned buildings. the unhcr is calling for the 15,000 people to be moved from the islands to the mainland to ensure a dignified reception. also, relocations are flat at 12 percent. what are you going to do to speed them up? finally, the eu civil protection mechanism, which was already activated in 2015, should also be reactivated, commissioner. it is not acceptable to leave anyone out in the cold, especially those seeking international protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of people are frozen to death in belgrade alone. many families and many children seek shelter in the old abandoned buildings during these hours. they are seeking humanitarian protection in europe, and europe is responding by erecting barbed wire walls and progressively tightening measures to stop the flow of desperate people. europe responds by no longer applying the international rules that guarantee the right to humanitarian protection. this europe, which punishes those who violate the stability pact but not those who violate human rights, does not reflect my values and those of my country, which, on the contrary, has been committed for years to saving lives at sea. this part of europe which rejects women and children, persecutes them and condemns them to death is not the europe we want. it is time to act, to mobilize to provide immediate assistance to this multitude of people, and to finally break the cynical attitude of some european states towards immigration policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are asking for urgent action. we call for this urgent action to ensure emergency aid for the thousands of migrants and asylum seekers who are in difficulty due to the freezing and snowing weather conditions in europe. and yet it was all predictable, we could have acted in time, but we still had emergency support. we must get out of this, we must get out of this to start drawing up medium and even long-term plans. we need to be able to act quickly with this new instrument of humanitarian aid on european soil. delays are no longer tolerable, we must be present where people suffer, where people are in need. we need the commission to be able to act quickly with the member states and above all to go beyond the selfishness of the member states. this is about saving lives, not building walls. human life comes first, solidarity cannot and must not be flexible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated the intervention today of both president muscat and now minister borg for the commitment you have made to give priority, indeed, to the question of migration and i say this as a european but also as an italian, and i think that in this we expect a lot from your presidency. and i also very much appreciated, of course, the great participation of commissioner stylianides. of course, we all know and we must convince ourselves of this, but we all know that something must be absolutely and urgently adjusted. there are indeed governments which, obviously, like the greek government, let's be frank, are unlikely to be able to intervene on matters of absolutely extraordinary humanitarian emergency. i think it is important to take responsibility for bringing these 15,000 refugees back to the mainland. i also think we need to go beyond appealing to countries that are not meeting their duty to take in refugee quotas. we have asked for sanctions against these countries, or do we sanction only for the sake of strictness in the economic rules? we also ask that there be a fundamental question that we must put to our conscience. it is inconceivable that yesterday, and i say this frankly, the italian coast guard said that saving lives is not only a moral duty but a legal imperative, and that saving lives on land, on the edge of the land, has a different value. this is not acceptable. i think that europe must set a different example and set a different example in this respect.
in writing. another effect of the failed european asylum and immigration policies is the terrible living conditions that thousands of refugees and asylum seekers, abandoned in informal camps, often without water or electricity, are experiencing at this time. the most vulnerable, such as women, the sick and children, are particularly affected by the lack of first aid and urgently needed medical care as they try to survive the harsh winter temperatures in different parts of europe. the current asylum procedures, reception conditions and lack of integration force thousands of refugees to take additional risks, to rely on trafficking networks to achieve better conditions of care and protection. and while the institutions continue to debate the responsibilities and the management of funds and aid that should have prevented this, thousands of people continue to be exposed to the terrible winter frost conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a homogeneous infrastructure system, if implemented in accordance with union legislation, benefits the logistics sector and promotes development and growth. however, member states must step up their efforts and comply with european legislation on mobility, logistics and transport. the lack of effective harmonisation and timely implementation of european legislation by member states hampers crossborder projects, particularly regional rail links. the national infrastructure plans of the member states are too often drawn up without taking into account the objectives of the transeuropean transport network and the commission must address this lack of cooperation by encouraging coordination between the two planning levels. i think that efforts should be concentrated on reviving railways and inland waterways, encouraging the development of electric and alternative fuel modes of transport, and introducing fuel standards for heavy commercial vehicles and co2 emission limits, thus following up on the european sustainable transport strategy and the paris agreements.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to commissioner rodrigues, in 2015 juncker spoke of protecting workers through a pillar of social rights, pointing the finger at certain epochal changes in the world of work. i regret to inform you that these are not changes that have fallen from the sky, but the reforms encouraged by the commission that have torn apart the labour market of this continent, such as those imposed on the italians by the monti government, by the renzi government, and such as those imposed on the greeks by the disturbing alliance between the commission and the monetary fund. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the commission, and it is to be adopted by the council and the commission. it was not the crisis of 2008 that dismantled the old contracts, it was the neoliberal policies aimed at turning man into a number and the lives of citizens into pure accounting, those neoliberal policies that you now want to continue to impose on us by passing them off as inevitable, but these are the same policies that were already in the drawer for a long time, there was just the right time to implement extraordinary measures in extraordinary times. we are not very interested in protecting european workers and you say that to our face, it is written in black and white in the commission's communications. the ultimate aim of the pillar is not to save people but to enable what is the construction of a deeper economic and monetary union. human life is subject to the demands of big finance. it is perhaps a coincidence that, as the commission is launching consultations on the social pillar, the international fund is announcing that people are living too long. yes, because that's what christine lagarde said in 2016, and then she called on governments to implement radical change policies to prevent people's long lives from undermining financial stability. commissioners, commissioner, i believe that behind the special effects of your pillar is in fact the intention to follow the disturbing advice of the monetary fund. if your intentions are genuine, then let us know clearly what concrete actions you will take to really achieve the social pillar, what it will consist of, beyond documents and words, this social pillar. what are you going to do, because words do not feed the 120 million poor people who are struggling to survive today. we do not need to think about how the lives of our citizens will be extended, because we know today that european citizens do not survive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours' time the european parliament will be voting on its report on a european pillar of social rights. i am grateful to mrs rodrigues for the forward-looking, ambitious document she has presented, which really sets the course for the revival of europe. the results of the 2016 public consultation should be read with caution and interpreted as another warning sign of deteriorating socioeconomic conditions in our countries. the european parliament must now show that it can do its job. we must demand that the pillar of social rights not be limited to a declaration of good intentions but that it creates concrete and specific instruments, through legislation, through new political mechanisms, with better and more efficient financial instruments. in the list of proposed initiatives i would like to highlight three: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. let's keep working on this together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prolonged crisis in the euro zone has dealt a severe blow to the social dimension of european integration. many member states have been forced to implement strict budgetary consolidation measures which have resulted in severe social disadvantages. without a common european framework, member states are bound to be trapped in a destructive competition based on a race to the bottom of social standards. a european pillar of social rights can only be credible if it is accompanied by adequate resources at national and european level to ensure that the objectives set are achieved. the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 should be revised, if necessary, the youth employment initiative should be further strengthened and the full use of the edf and the european fund for the improvement of living and working conditions should be ensured. these financial instruments must also be strengthened with regard to education and training, vocational retraining, the fight against poverty and the challenges unforeseen until a few years ago, such as the integration of refugees into the labour market.
in writing. the social dimension is largely absent from eu policies. the single market was built without any integration in mind, and this has created and continues to create internal dumping and risks for workers. the so-called 'european social model' which was in vogue at the end of the last century must be updated, but above all it is necessary that the social dimension should become an integral part of common policies. the report deals with important issues such as income redistribution, collective social security schemes, social assistance programmes, public services, services of general interest, social investment and the fight against tax evasion. however, these requests are being placed in a context of greater coordination at the level of european governance which, as structured today, actively contributes to the promotion of inequality and the impoverishment of the majority of european citizens, in particular through the imposition of the blockade on public spending by individual member states.
in writing. the european union must do its utmost to react quickly and visibly to the growing frustrations and concerns of a large part of the population. there are no longer any ordinary answers: the uncertain life prospects, unemployment and growing inequalities require us to take concrete and urgent action on the social side of europe. new instruments are needed, new concrete measures to support those who are most in need and to revive the whole pillar of social rights in innovative ways. the european commission has put forward a consultation and the social partners have responded with some very interesting proposals, and parliament's response is now very ambitious, with a very precise list of priorities on how to structure the european social model for the future. i would like to recall in particular the passages in the rodrigues report which stress the importance of collective bargaining as a primary fundamental right of the eu. this principle gives rise to the conviction, repeatedly expressed by this house, that it is both right and useful for growth to involve workers in the management of companies by introducing, as far as possible, measures of information, consultation and participation, especially in order to achieve new and better models of work organization and to anticipate economic changes.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last month more than 500 people were arrested and later released for participating in several simultaneous peaceful demonstrations in different regions of indonesia, particularly in the province of west papua. hosea yeimo and ismael alua, two young activists belonging to a student organization, were arrested and charged with rebellion before being released with a ban on leaving the city. in jakarta, however, the christian minority governor ahok, the first non-muslim elected governor, is on trial for the crime of blasphemy. the resolution calls on indonesia not only to reconsider its position on the cases mentioned but also to take action to protect human rights by immediately abolishing the death penalty, which is still in force. we hope that in the high-level dialogue between indonesia and the european union these issues will not only be discussed but also be resolved.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the indonesian authorities have adopted an increasingly repressive policy towards oppositionists, activists and representatives of minorities in the country, particularly against the papuan community. arbitrary arrests following peaceful protests and subsequent ill-treatment by prison guards have been documented to several ngos. the governor of jakarta was also the victim of this policy, convicted on charges of blasphemy, a pretext designed to discredit and eliminate an unpleasant character. the complexity of the case and the scale of the operations should make us reflect on the actual extent of indonesia's multi-religiousness, which could even affect the country's future democracy. we cannot forget that indonesia is an important trading partner of ours and it is therefore essential that bilateral economic and trade relations be accompanied by a firm commitment to improving the domestic human rights situation, starting with the cases discussed in this resolution and including minority rights. the european union must constantly monitor what is happening in indonesia and use the leverage of trade to protect human rights. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. yes, ms frunzulică, i agree, it should intervene, the european union should use what is in its power diplomatically to try, in fact, to put pressure on the government to change these laws.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have addressed indonesia on other occasions to call for a moratorium on the death penalty and to protest against human rights violations in the country. today we are calling with greater determination on the indonesian authorities to respect human rights and to stop the disproportionate use of force. we call for respect for human rights, rights such as those of hosea yeimo and ismael alua, two political activists arrested for their peaceful political activities on charges of rebellion under the indonesian penal code. although they have been released on bail, the two, who have declared themselves prisoners of conscience, risk, for a crime of opinion, a sentence of up to life imprisonment. we cannot but express concern at the continuing arrests of peaceful protesters, detained solely for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and assembly. the european union must strengthen cooperation with indonesia on a number of issues, certainly on the fight against terrorism, but also on the rule of law and respect for human rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the authors of this resolution for their initiative and all colleagues for this comprehensive discussion. our relations with indonesia are friendly and close. they develop within the solid framework of the eu-indonesia partnership and cooperation agreement. in the last couple of months relations between the european union and indonesia have advanced in an impressive manner. last april in jakarta we launched the ministerial strategic dialogue. a few days later, we welcomed president widodo to brussels for the first ever visit of an indonesian president to the european union institutions. the first round of negotiations on a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with indonesia took place in september. in june we held the sixth session of our bilateral human rights dialogue and in november we organised the first joint committee under the eu-indonesia partnership and cooperation agreement. november also witnessed the reactivation of the ep-indonesia parliamentary friendship group. we see indonesia as an essential partner. with a quarter of a billion inhabitants, indonesia is one of the largest democracies in the world. the eu values indonesia, with its emphasis on pluralism and tolerance, as a model for other countries in the region and beyond. the two young papuans referred to by the honourable members were arrested on 19 december for helping to organise demonstrations throughout the indonesian provinces of papua and west papua. they were charged with treason and secession and were granted temporary suspension of detention on 11 january. indonesia and the european union have discussed the situation in papua and west papua on a regular basis in our bilateral human rights dialogue, including during the last meeting, which took place in june. in this context, the european union has consistently raised concerns about restrictions to freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly in the provinces of papua and west papua and called on indonesia to invite relevant un bodies to visit the country. we have welcomed also president widodo’s announcement of may 2015 to release all the papuan prisoners imprisoned for peaceful protest. indeed, reports from civil society show that the number of such prisoners has decreased from two years ago. this definitely indicates that the widodo administration is delivering on its promise. the ongoing trial against the jakarta governor who is accused of blasphemy has triggered extensive debate among indonesians about the role of minorities in the country, as well as about religious tolerance and pluralism, which are at the heart of the indonesian state and society. indonesia and the european union are closely engaged in an ongoing exchange on these and other issues pertaining to freedom of religion or belief and freedom of expression. please be assured that the european union will continue to use every opportunity, including the next eu-indonesia human rights dialogue, to continue to raise the situation in papua and, of course, the issue of religious freedom, with our indonesian counterparts.
in writing. the human rights dimension plays a key role in the development of future relations between the european union and indonesia, and the following motion for a resolution is therefore committed to this. in particular, i find it very serious that, despite the government's commitments, some minorities, including the lgbt community, are still discriminated against in indonesia, and equally serious that the death penalty has been reintroduced. the european union must also commit itself to strongly calling for the release of the many political prisoners who have been imprisoned during the frequent peaceful protests, as well as for all necessary measures to be taken to ensure that conditions are created for the exercise of freedom of speech and peaceful assembly.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of tension and violence in the central african republic has shown no signs of improvement over the past year. the killing of two peacekeepers and the wounding of a third, all un minusca personnel, are episodes that demonstrate how the violation of human rights and international humanitarian law is still at the heart of the crisis that the country has been facing since 2012. while we have already called for clear action by the european union and the african union in this house, through the establishment of a functioning judicial system which is indispensable to carry out a thorough investigation of all cases of violence, crimes and crimes, we are today, with this resolution, reaffirming and renewing our attention and commitment as the european parliament so that the central african republic can actually overcome this state of crisis and start a new era of democracy, respect for human rights and positive growth.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the civil war in the central african republic has been going on since 2004, causing death, destruction and an ever-increasing number of refugees. the deaths of three un peacekeepers in 2017 have made the situation more precarious, with some areas having to suspend humanitarian operations. the state is having increasing difficulty maintaining order in the territory and fails to bring to justice all those who are taking advantage of this crisis to commit crimes and abuses. in a previous speech i had already pointed out, for example, the heavy contribution of western companies which, in order to maintain their business, have not been afraid to support both sides in the struggle in an attempt to prolong and maintain the state of war in the central african republic. the european parliament has spoken on the subject on several occasions and an ad hoc conference was held on 17 november. the time has come to act, to apply the measures contained in this resolution to take a decisive step towards lasting peace and a definitive return to the status quo ante bellum.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. i call on the government of the central african republic to launch impartial investigations into all violations, prosecute those responsible, and perhaps set up a special criminal court. it is essential that the government of the central african republic, with the support of the international community, invests significantly in the judicial system with the aim of rebuilding the courts and the police force and thus ending the current widespread impunity. i call on the african authorities to implement, with the support of their international partners, the national recovery and peacebuilding plan, in particular through the strengthening of the capacities of national security forces, disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of armed groups. finally, with regard to the exploitation and illicit trafficking of natural resources, it would be appropriate for the united nations and minusca to set up a special unit to combat the smuggling of diamonds, timber, gold and ivory.
madam president, strengthening dialogue and reconciliation is the way to re-establish lasting peace in the central african republic. president touadéra has been working on it since his election in extremely fragile conditions, because of a system worn out by decades of civil war. i believe that we have a duty and a responsibility to support the efforts of this new democratically elected government to achieve the strengthening of an administrative and state structure. we regret all the massacres of the people that have been perpetrated. we also strongly condemn the murderous attacks on minusca peacekeepers. i believe that through our support, we also expect the new authorities to strengthen political and economic governance, the separation of powers and the fight against impunity, measures that the democratically elected institutions have already put in place. the european parliament will continue to support all the efforts of the new government and will ensure that normal conditions are restored in the country.
madam president, congratulations on your re-election, ladies and gentlemen. for several years now, the central african republic has been in the throes of a veritable war between militias and gangs, which has unfortunately assumed the religious and ethnic contours that we are all familiar with. at the same time, illicit trafficking is also on the increase and the state is now having difficulty in having a real control of the territory, which is now limited, just as its capacity to ensure public order is limited. here, as elsewhere, the one who is still attacking the state order is above all the logic of divide et impera of multinational groups and companies, including european ones, which, taken by the fever and blinded by the pursuit of the precious resources of this country at a low price, in fact risk leading to a destabilization that could eventually explode in the whole region and the whole area. it is time to demand communion and justice for the victims of torture, murder and constant attacks, that there be a chance for these people to emerge from the state of famine that puts tens of thousands of lives at risk and that human rights violations come to an end, as well as an end to these illicit trafficking that are undermining the centrality of the state. it is time for the international community and the european union to do their duty.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last month the president of burundi announced that he would run for a fourth term in 2020 and is already making the necessary amendments to overcome the constitutional limit of two legislatures. for almost two years now, the country has been experiencing a strong repression, followed by the revolts of citizens who had already opposed the third term. the serious violations of human rights, the tight control of information and the closure of five civil society organisations, as well as the government's attitude towards international institutions are of concern. we call on the burundian government to release those arbitrarily detained and to put an end to the intimidation of human rights defenders and journalists. the european union, together with the african union and the security council, must work to promote dialogue between all parties, find a peaceful solution to the crisis and restore democracy and the rule of law, building on the arusha agreement which helped to sustain peace in burundi for a decade.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian and civil catastrophe that is happening in burundi has a name and a surname, it is called pierre nkurunziza, the current president who, making a mockery of the constitution and the peace agreements, not only got elected for a third term but today speaks of a fourth election in 2020. what is happening in the burundian state is frightening. whenever the international community tries to take some timid steps there is a really blow-by-blow response, like when, on october 19, 2016, burundi withdrew from the international criminal court after the court itself announced that it had opened a first preliminary investigation. ngos have been expelled, i am talking about uniib or even the iteka league, the oldest in the country, and now every voice of dissent and every voice that rises up against this government is constantly silenced. the police and security forces, as well as the dreadful imbonerakure militia, are rampaging with murders, kidnappings, torture, rape and summary arrests and the crisis, which started as a political one, has now assumed obviously ethnic contours at the will of the government itself. the victims of ethnic tutsi grow exponentially, even a minister on the night of the new year. and this is so true in the silence of the international community that someone has spoken of a real 'silent genocide' and we have the burden of keeping our guard up, of demanding a strong reaction. we owe it to people like pierre claver mbonimpa, who i had the honor of meeting and also inviting to rome for an awareness event about what is happening in the country. we also owe it to a strong intervention, to the deployment of police forces to reduce violence, as a force of intervention. we cannot allow the 'never again' we said in rwanda to become the 'again and again' we are today. it is also up to us if we continue to be so passive and wait for history to take its course, perhaps simply by forgetfulness or because we think that the priorities are different, we will leave a community and leave these people to themselves and deny that nobel peace prize which has instead been awarded to the european union.
madam president, since the entry into force of a new unconstitutional mandate contrary to the arusha agreements, president pierre nkurunziza and his regime have redoubled their efforts to implement the policy of arbitrariness. this has resulted in the arbitrary closure of human rights organisations, notably the iteka league, and targeted attacks and assassinations against politicians, journalists and the general public. recently, three people were disbarred and one person suspended for one year, in total violation of the freedom of expression of lawyers and the autonomy of the judiciary. in view of this, we have suspended funding and applied targeted sanctions against the regime in bujumbura. but if the regime continues to disrespect its people, the european union will have to take more stringent measures against burundian politicians.
the court is in session. i regret to inform the house that following the many earthquakes that have struck italy, an avalanche has flooded a hotel, there are 30 people missing, including children, with a very bad weather situation, the alpine rescue of the guardia di finanza has reached the hotel after six hours of march because all the roads were blocked. so on skis the military of the finance guard have reached the place and are now trying, with the anti-thrust dogs, to see if the missing, as we all hope, have survived. two people have been rescued, but the situation is certainly not good. the population is exhausted. from midnight yesterday to 6:00 this morning, there have been 80 earthquakes. the citizens are terrified, the weather is bad, so i think we can send a message of solidarity on behalf of the whole parliament to these european citizens who are living through such tragic times. and i will do everything, i believe with your full agreement, to ensure that the european commission can speed up the time to disburse the solidarity fund with our support, because, again, the situation, as my italian colleagues know, is truly disastrous. newspapers all over the world are talking about what happened. the earthquake caused an avalanche and the avalanche flooded a hotel and everyone is under the avalanche, the hotel is under the avalanche. that is the tragic situation. i spoke to the commander-in-chief of the finance guard a few minutes ago. i thanked him for the work these experts have done. six hours is a long time to travel, but we hope they will be able to find the missing people alive. i thank all of you again, president juncker, the commissioner for the neighbourhood initiative, and i believe that we must do everything we can to give concrete answers to these citizens. as the president of the italian civil protection asked me, they ask above all for solidarity, because living with hundreds of shocks - there have been hundreds of shocks in recent days - is certainly not easy. so i thank you as an italian, but especially as president of parliament, for the solidarity you wish to show to these compatriots of ours. thank you, sir. i have the floor for mr valenciano.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to solidarity, there was a motion for a resolution on the earthquake in the last plenary session, which the commission must take seriously. there were very specific demands which the majority of the european parliament approved, so let us also get down to the facts. solidarity must certainly be shown, it must be given, but concrete actions are needed because the situation will not improve and it is not some citizens who are in a bad situation, but the vast majority of the population of central italy.
president juncker said yesterday that he would do everything possible, and i will call him again today, but i think we have made our voice heard clearly, so that we can not only applaud but also do something concrete.
we must not open a debate on this, we will check, i will ask the quaestors to give me an answer. mr forenza, you asked for the floor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think your announcement was important in view of the situation in central italy. there are thousands of european citizens who are struggling to get back to normal. i believe it is essential that the security of european citizens should be interpreted first and foremost as the security of their own territory, in relation to their own homes, and that this should prevail over the logic of stability. i would also like to express our solidarity, of the whole house and of this group, with those people and to express our sincere thanks to all the active solidarity brigades who are currently rescuing people in a disastrous situation caused by the earthquake and the snow.
at the conference of presidents we decided to give the house a prominent place and also to highlight current affairs. i have pointed out what has happened in one of the countries of the european union, so i think i will be quick in my vote. but we also respect what has happened and the sentiments of the representatives of the italian people who sit in this house. we are not bureaucrats, we are representatives of the peoples of europe, and when a european people is suffering, we must stand by the european people, it is not a question of voting sooner or later. i'll be quick with the votes.
thank you, your honor. we have already voted for the quaestors with this system. yesterday, during the debate on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 15 december, mr lavrilleux said that mr lundgren had uttered a racist phrase in his speech. mr lundgren denied that he had said that. as i promised you yesterday, i asked for the transcripts and the translation of the speeches before making any decision on this matter. after having seen the translation and the speech in the original text in mr lundgren's mother tongue and the recording of the french interpretation, i can confirm that this was a misunderstanding due to an error of interpretation. mr lundgren did not utter any racist words in his speech. i must acknowledge this publicly and apologize if there was a mistake; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter of the member states and not of the commission. i have promised this house that i will guarantee the right to speak to all members. we shall vote quickly, but since the accusation against mr lundgren was serious, i wanted to ascertain the truth and since he did not utter any racist words, the whole house should have been informed. mr lavrilleux rightly denounced what had happened in the french interpretation.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
appointment of the members of parliamentary committees. the proposals for appointments to the committees submitted to the conference of presidents were communicated to the house yesterday. i would inform you that the ecr group has asked for mr tannock to be replaced by mr bashir as a member of the subcommittee on human rights. i therefore declare the appointments approved by this amendment.
i will try to explain in the noise why i supported this report. in my view, this report can contribute to the development of transport infrastructure within the eu, and if we are building the internal market, the internal market can hardly function without quality infrastructure. in short, if we are talking here about, for example, the digital sale of goods on the internet as one of the commission's priorities for this election period, the sale of goods will not work unless there is sufficient quality transport infrastructure that will lead to the import and export of goods across the borders of individual member states. i therefore welcome the report, i supported it, and i hope that it will contribute to the development of transport infrastructure. a particular disadvantage of this report is that it is very general and does not contain any commitments that should lead to both the eu and individual member states spending more money in the future on the development of transport infrastructure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, speed, sustainability, efficiency are the key words for organizing the flow of goods and information from their point of origin to their destination. europe means the abolition of frontiers, and the more difficult it seems to be to reduce distances, to reduce travel times, to organise transport. i voted in favour of this report because the construction of europe is really about logistics. it is logistics that moves europe, no one has time to wait, freight transport must be faster and more efficient, logistics today employs over 11 million people, by 2040, in just over 20 years, the sector will grow by 40%. it is important to develop the ten-t core corridors but also and above all the global network, the most important one, which allows goods to reach their final destination. it is the last part that must be stressed, that is where it is most difficult to work. it is the insular and remote regions, such as my own, sicily, with their lack of infrastructure, that are the real challenge for european logistics.
i didn't support this motion either. i do not think that the question of social policy should be the key issue on the european agenda. of course, as a modern politician, i see social policy as an important part of the state's activities, but in my view, under the principle of subsidiarity, social policy should remain primarily at the level of individual member states. the proposal we have adopted goes far beyond the competence of the individual national states and seeks to create a european, let us say, central social policy. the requirement to introduce a minimum wage, the requirements to introduce different types of parental leave, including maternity, paternity, carer's leave, etc. are things that individual member states should adjust according to their economic strength, their history, their tradition, but we should not dictate this from brussels to individual nation states. that is why i think this proposal is wrong and i did not support it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, almost two years ago we all welcomed with great pleasure the words of president juncker in support of the european pillar of social rights. i voted in favour of this report because we really need a european social system which enshrines clear and precise rights for all european workers. we need a tool that can change and improve the lives of citizens: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. work without rights is merely a commodity. if this europe, which is so much in dispute, wants to grow, now is the time to do so, because there can be no economic growth without social growth. in our europe there is no work without workers' rights. i think of the many, many workers who die because of the lack of security and of the women and men who are forced to give up their private lives in order not to lose their jobs. and so this europe really needs the pillar of social rights, indeed, more than a pillar, i would say, it needs a strong foundation on which to build the growth of the new europe.
(the sitting was opened at 3.05 p.m.) i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 19 january 2017.
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 19 january 2017.
miss marias, send me a detailed letter on the subject. i'll have the general security directorate check it out and we'll see what we can do. we shall nevertheless be obliged to guarantee the freedom of expression of all members.
there will be a discussion on relations with the united states, on what is happening, so of course my position will be that expressed by parliament.
we are talking about agenda items, we are not discussing the likely future candidate for us ambassador to the european union. so please abide by the rules.
the following amendments were tabled. wednesday 1 february: a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on travel restrictions following executive orders by the president of the united states is added as the first item on the agenda, followed by a round of speeches by the political groups. second item a statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the management of migration along the central mediterranean route is added as the third item on the agenda, after the commission statement on the state of the energy union. thirdly, the oral question on low-risk biological pesticides is postponed to the february part-session. the sitting will therefore be extended until 12 noon. are there any objections? (parliament adopted the resolution) the agenda is thus altered. i also receive the following request. on wednesday 1 february the europe of nations and freedom group asked that a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the secret activities of the european external action service be added as a second point after the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative on the travel restrictions following the executive orders of the president of the united states.
for thursday 2 february 2017, the group of the european people's party and the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe have asked for a commission statement on democracy and justice in romania to be added as the first item. the vote will therefore begin at 11.30 a.m. instead of 11.00 a.m.
the liberal group is asking for a different proposal, not a joint one.
it seems to me that the two proposals, although formulated in different terms, can be combined. so i think i can bring to the attention of the house a single proposal for a commission statement on democracy and justice in romania. so we have heard the joint epp/alde proposal.
mr rodrigues, do you also want to put your proposal, which is an alternative to the liberal and ppe proposal, to the vote?
let's hear it for the popular group. mr weber, are you in favour of the solution proposed by the socialist group?
if i understand correctly, the socialist group is asking for a debate in libe, as well as a debate, is that not so?
we can unify the proposal, then supplement the proposal put forward by mr weber and mr nicolai with the proposal by mr rodrigues so that there is a discussion in plenary and then a debate in libe, and then send a mission to romania. are we clear? i put the three joint motions to the vote. (parliament agreed to the request)
mr harms, i listened carefully to mr fotyga's speech, but the rules of procedure require that a request for a change of the agenda be tabled at least one hour before the debate on behalf of a group. this request has not been received, it was made by the honourable member, i have heard it in the house, so i cannot amend it. there are new regulations, so we have to respect the regulations.
the agenda includes a discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on travel restrictions following executive orders of the president of the united states (2017/2546 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate, nor will there be any blue-card questions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some people, let us be honest, thought that trump was going to be a joke, almost a joke, and instead it is turning out to be a nightmare. let us not underestimate, as we have done in history, certain personalities who have become dictators and have sown wars and blood. as federica mogherini rightly said, friendship with the american people is out of the question. for us it is essential, it is fruitful, it remains a fixed point of our feelings and our actions, just as the admiration for the united states of america remains strong, for what it has been in history and for what it is. but that is precisely why it is painful to acknowledge these proposals, these measures that trump is taking forward, which are an attack on european legal civilization, on fundamental values. let's just call it like it is, mr. weber. the travel ban, which is only for citizens of certain muslim countries, has nothing to do with border management and the fight against terrorism. it is a demagogic lie. you ban some and you don't ban some, who trump does business with. we are telling the truth because the people need clear words. it is an attack on the right to asylum and the rule of law, it is an attack that comes along with other things, like the wall with mexico. international relations are being lost, relations with mexico, with latin america, the whole world is being infected by this virus of instability, of disruption. i say to the airlines: do not give in, do not refuse boarding to the united states of passengers from the nations targeted by trump. jo leinen is right, and manfred weber is right here too, when he says: if that ambassador were appointed, he would not be welcome, because i cannot like someone who says, even before being appointed, 'i am going there to destroy the european union'. and i say to mrs may and the uk government: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i also say that it would be good if the member states (they are free to do so) called their ambassadors and consulted each other about what is happening in the united states. it would also be a symbolic act. and it would also be good if, on european soil, until this trend stops, trump is not invited. i'm finished. i too, like vice-president mogherini, am in favour of cooperation, but until trump changes his line, europe's door will be closed to him.
i ask you to be respectful... (sorry, i can't hear you, mate.)...towards this parliament and the institutional functions of the commissioners. we owe this not only to the institutional respect for the commission but also to the benevolence of vice-president/high representative mogherini. thank you.
mr. farage, i'm just asking you to be respectful.
(referring to the speech without a microphone by mr verhofstadt "we should have obama here in parliament") thank you, mr verhofstadt.
we sent the clerks to tell the honourable member that he could not display that sign.
vpc/hr thank you, mr president, and i thank you for your words of respect. i will switch to english because that might be better. respecting the role of the commission - and in particular, in my case being a vice-president of the commission and also a high representative - is also a sign of respect for this parliament, because i was asked to do this job by the european parliament, which, to my knowledge, is elected, and, by the way, also by the european council, which is composed of prime ministers who are elected. i see that there is a lot of confusion in some parts of the uk. the united states is a great country and a great democracy. america will have to deal with its own divisions and discussions. i know that, as europeans, we specialize in making every crisis our own crisis, but it is clear that this is an american crisis that which will have to be dealt with by americans. they will have to sort this out somehow, starting with the dangerous divisions and polarizations we are seeing in the american political, institutional and societal dynamics. but i am confident that our american friends will find their way out of these tensions and crises and continue to be the great country that most of you recognize that they are, have been, and will continue to be. what is up to us here is not to try and solve the american contradictions of the present, but to be clear on where we stand, to affirm our own values, our own policies and our own interests, and be true to them. those of you who underlined this are completely right. this is also up to you in this chamber, and to many others in the european institutions. be strong and show leadership. we may have lost one important partner on some files, but this makes our leadership even more important, relevant, and, i would say, indispensable. all around the world, whether it's in our region or very far away, people are now looking to the european union maybe not in the uk, but in the rest of the world as a point of reference with regard to multilateralism, free and fair trade, human rights, respect which for us is the basis not only of institutional relations but also of human relations and our own, in italian we would say humanism. i'm not sure if that works in english. europeans are like this. sometimes we're not proud enough of what we are, who we are and what we can be. i will end by saying that some great americans, good friends, only a few months ago were reminding us, the europeans here in brussels that europeans should believe in themselves as much as their friends in the world believe in them. i think that this is the time for us, as europeans, to realize the potential we have, to realize the responsibilities we hold at this particular historic moment, and to be that strong point of reference that the world needs at this moment, particularly in our region. i was thinking of the paradox that we will have prime minister al-sarraj from libya here tomorrow. that was natural and the invitation came before the executive order came out, but a libyan citizen will be here in brussels discussing ways out of the libyan crisis with us. when you ban something and build a wall, you might have the feeling that you are more secure, but you are actually building walls all around yourself and preventing yourself from having many opportunities. we europeans are not like that. we will continue to be true to our values and to our way of working the european way, which puts cooperation before confrontation. i think we will have to be proud of that and to do that even more. (applause from the left)
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the state of the energy union (2017/2523(rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. i am very pleased to see that the so-called winter package contains a number of proposals for prosumers and energy communities. it is certainly a step forward, and i welcome it and congratulate the commissioner on it, but at the same time there are steps backwards, in our view, which could undo any progress towards the climate and energy objectives that the union has set itself. we realise that it is not easy to manage a situation where such opposing interests sometimes come to be concentrated on one person, like the commissioner, and so i am in solidarity with you. but i think it is simply outrageous that the priority for dispatching renewables has been removed. it is true that green technologies are more mature and cheaper than a few years ago, but until the externalities of fossil fuels are computed and with the capacity mechanisms still contemplated at least until 2026, as it would seem, to talk about the same competitiveness with other technologies, about technology neutrality, in my opinion - to use a trendy term - is fake news. i would therefore like to emphasize once again the market distortion caused by the 300 billion in direct and indirect subsidies - the source is the international monetary fund - which in europe end up fuelling the fossil fuel economy. when we talk about technological neutrality, the free market forgets this huge elephant in the room that is periodically ignored. this is without considering the climate and geopolitical benefits of the renewable transition. we know that there are reliable studies - i can provide them, but you will know them - that estimate the potential for decentralised energy production by citizens at european level with impressive data: in 2030, 112 million prosumers, including schools, local communities and hospitals, would have the potential, on their own, to meet 19% of the energy demand in the european union. in 2050, this response would rise to 45% with half of the citizens involved. the state of the union just adopted mentions financing mechanisms, and here i come with a proposal: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. so i would ask the commissioner to consider such a proposal, to provide a legal framework because in this case it could stimulate the private investment of individual citizens and communities that we so badly need.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we all appreciate this package, which is certainly one of the most integrated and decisive strategies of the eu, because there are several elements at stake. the productivity of our industrial manufacturing system is at stake, the environment is at stake, the health of our citizens is at stake. i think about how many european cities are suffering from poor air quality these days, even in very developed cities, in very developed regions, in advanced countries, and also in finance, in the cost of utility bills for both businesses and citizens. but if we really want to make a green revolution, we need to raise the bar a little bit. we say this on behalf of a group which is very convinced of this, which hopes to have a large majority in parliament, and we say this to you, who are sensitive to these issues. raising the bar on ambition, for example, means having higher targets on renewables. we are well on the way to those of 2020, but let us look further, also for the sake of industrial certainty, and let us make europe a point of advance, also for the european industry concerned. the quality and novelty elements must also be strengthened. i think about consumers and all the possibilities of distributed energy. it's not a niche, it can become a real... (interrupted by the president)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, technological change, political commitments in the field of the environment, the continuing change in the international situation and the increasing energy efficiency in almost all the global economies are imposing major changes on the energy market. yet the energy europe remains a collection of weakly integrated national markets with a paltry physical exchange, different operating mechanisms and wide divergence in internal prices. it is essential that europe finds unity in the energy field, starting with the issue of a single gas market: europe's dependence on imports highlights the need for a common european market in natural gas to ensure both storage and delivery capacity, so that any interruption in supplies can be absorbed without trauma. the failure of the ecsc and euratom, which were created to avoid the risk of energy insecurity, must make us reflect on the mistakes we have made and give fresh impetus to a broad-ranging energy policy, an energy union with an ambitious and stable regulatory framework.
in writing. the second state of the energy union report highlights the start of the transition to a low-carbon economy to meet the 2020 targets for emission reductions, energy efficiency and renewable energy. the report highlights the good progress towards the completion of the energy union: the eu is now on the right track, particularly in terms of reducing emissions and renewables, which are becoming increasingly competitive, with a total consumption of just under 20%. it's about moving on to the next stage. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union in the member states and in the union's external action. the report is clearly forward-looking, setting out priorities not only for the energy sector, but also taking into account socio-economic aspects, such as the need to accelerate the drive to the economy, exploiting the employment potential of green sectors in line with the trends of the circular economy and climate diplomacy. i am sure that parliament will help to consolidate this process, starting with the substantial work ahead on the legislative dossiers of the clean energy for all europeans package presented last november.
the agreement with turkey is constantly being criticised, and now there is one with libya, which is even more disturbing. i wonder what the point of european leaders protesting against trump is when they themselves are preparing legally questionable operations and ignoring the clear recommendations of the un commissioner for human rights that returns to libya should not be made and neither should landings in libya in search and rescue operations, because fugitives run serious risks: torture in detention camps, violence against women, executions. we know from the un that the danger is not the smugglers, but the traffickers, the uncontrolled militias and the civil servants of a decaying state. i would ask the council to refrain from dangerous agreements on friday in valletta. i ask this especially of italy, because of our country's colonial past. i ask the commission to get out of the double standards. we cannot at the same time say that the agreement with turkey is not replicable, that the first concern is to save lives, and to plan the training and financing of the libyan coastguard and the libyan law enforcement forces and their coordination with our border forces... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative, who is not elected and who is appointed by a president of the italian council who is also not elected, does not want to listen to the voice of us populists, who are elected by the people. today in brussels the libyan leader proposes to extend operation sophia to libyan waters, but he does not tell us, and europe does not tell us, where he then wants to take the clandestine migrants through these ships. this is the point on which the 15 generic minutes of the high representative's report are not clear. the same eunavfor med commission commander tells us that between one third and one half of the total population of tripolitania is linked to the smuggling of migrants, and should we believe that these government forces will cooperate with the objectives demanded by many european countries, from which there is a demand for returns? you use a very general language: the report mentions a line of protection, but it does not say from whom or what, you mention operation sophia, but diplomatic sources quoted by france press admit that it has, of course, saved the lives of people the high representative always talks about, but it has been a source of attraction for migrants. that's the failure of these operations, they're just a source of new attraction. the story never ends unless a serious operation of repulsion is launched, which the italian navy, for example, would certainly be able to point out. you're supplying the libyan navy with new equipment, but you don't even know who's controlling it. it's probably being controlled by people with ties to terrorism. who knows, who knows? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, saving lives at sea is a priority, just as it is a priority not to allow the lives we have saved at sea to be exploited, and unfortunately this is what happens in some countries. the high representative's intervention focused on libya. this is the central point because, just as we have tackled, whether we like it or not, with the agreement with turkey, the balkan route and therefore the eastern interest in the mediterranean, we must also tackle, not alone, but with partners and with the countries neighbouring the european union and third countries, the issue of immigration. we are dealing in parliament with the package of seven directives on the common european asylum system and it is very important, in addition to the libyan issue, to deal with the whole issue of the european lists of safe countries, not national lists but european lists. this is a very important part of the package for solving the problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are very concerned about the maltese presidency's intention to replicate the eu-turkey agreement with libya and we are also concerned about the possibility that it might take different forms, such as this idea of training the libyan coastguard to repel people trying to reach the eu. libya is an unstable country, it has not signed the geneva convention, it certainly cannot be considered a safe country. the un high commissioner for human rights in his report speaks of torture, rape, violence of all kinds and a document from a german embassy that has just emerged today even compares the camps in libya to the camps. what more proof do we need? in the days of trump's uncivil and illegal executive order and the great protest that has resulted from it, we should be sending a different signal. a few months ago, a declaration was signed in new york committing everyone to a greater sharing of responsibility for refugees and migrants. knowing that 86% of displaced people are hosted in developing countries, how can the eu do its part if every effort of the council and the commission seems to be aimed at externalizing our borders and responsibilities? the agreement with turkey, the migration compact and the inadmissibility checks in the dublin reform risk creating a large entry filter. why not instead work with libya on a comprehensive resettlement plan to lift people out of the horror they suffer every day?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact: without further action, migratory flows along the mediterranean route will intensify in the coming months. nothing surprising, i can tell. we are facing a structural phenomenon which requires joint interventions and targeted policies, rather than isolated actions aimed at blocking flows to europe. saving lives remains a priority for the commission too. we will assess together the choice of the most appropriate instruments for coordinating search and rescue activities. we are not externalizing our borders in the illusion of stopping the flow of migrants from libya - it does not matter whether on land or in territorial waters - and then taking them to detention centres, actual camps where there are very serious and systematic violations of human rights. the idea that the success of an immigration policy is measured primarily in terms of returns and readmissions only distances us from the idea of common and comprehensive management that this parliament adopted just under a year ago.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 more than 180 000 people tried to reach the shores of europe by crossing the mediterranean route, and we know that unfortunately many did not make it through this hell. the plan presented by the commission does introduce cooperation with libya, our most troubled neighbour: the libyan coast guard training in rescue at sea may be a first step, but it is by no means a solution for the whole mediterranean and, above all, for those territories which can no longer bear the burden of hundreds of thousands of people arriving from all over africa, the middle east and then on the libyan, sicilian and greek coasts, who are stranded, sometimes in camps. europe needs, we know, a different and decisive approach and a plan for internal immigration, because solidarity and relocation have not worked. the numbers of relocations are still too low, really unacceptable. so we hope that the summit the day after tomorrow will take a different approach to this too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean is a region of migration, at the heart of which is the schengen border, the external border of the european union. yet europe is moving slowly. the exceptional wave of migration that has swept europe confronts us with age-old problems that require urgent and concrete responses. there are still too many migrants dying along the mediterranean route. the countries from which the divers come must be stabilized and the networks which feed human trafficking must be broken once and for all. most of these people are forced to flee their country because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations or poverty. it is essential to improve the exchange of good practice with third countries. the european union must be able to build a genuine common partnership with the countries bordering the mediterranean if it is to tackle the problem properly and consistently.
the s&d group. mr president, four years of civil war, tens of thousands of dead, three million displaced people, ethnic violence: genocide is imminent. torture, murder, gang rape, the recruitment of child soldiers - the atrocities are increasing. i condemn the total disregard of the international community for the catastrophic situation in south sudan, as evidenced by the rejection of a resolution imposing an arms embargo and sanctions by the un security council. this is absolutely aberrant. for several weeks now, humanitarian organizations and un experts have sounded the alarm about the situation before the genocide. ethnic cleansing has been ongoing in several parts of the country since early december. the blue helmets are no longer able to provide security for the population and have to retreat. this is one of the worst human rights situations in the world. i would remind the political leaders of south sudan, both president salva kiir and former vice-president riek machar, of their responsibility to protect their people. both are responsible for appalling atrocities and massacres. a path of dialogue is urgently needed to implement the peace agreement and a ceasefire. commissioner, i would like to ask you in conclusion what the european union can do, with all the instruments at its disposal, in diplomacy and in compliance with the cotonou agreement, to stop the renewal of the conflict and the violations of human rights in south sudan.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the people of south sudan is tragic. of the estimated 12 million inhabitants, four and a half fight hunger every day, two million are internally displaced and over 1.3 million are refugees in neighbouring countries, primarily uganda. in the recent past, a certain vulgarity has described to us the success of self-determination, the overcoming of the old colonial settlements and the creation of a government of national unity. it is an optimistic picture, but reality has belied these fragile assumptions because, despite massive injections of resources for development aid and the creation of an administrative system over the years, the representatives of the two main factions, president kiir and vice president machar, have broken the governmental cohabitation driven by long-standing ethnic divisions accentuated by the oil interests at stake. the un mission has proved powerless to restore the rule of law and has only succeeded in creating sites for the protection of civilians fleeing violence, while the regional protection force authorized by the security council is still far from being realized. the spectre of a new rwanda is becoming more tangible. the humanitarian initiatives of the un and individual countries such as uganda are not enough to prevent this tragic eventuality... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in south sudan is truly tragic. there are widespread and systematic violations of human rights. the government continues to repress basic freedoms with arbitrary arrests of journalists and political leaders, and to the violence adds a dramatic famine. in south sudan, according to the un agencies (fao, unicef and the world food programme), more than 30 000 people are at risk of starvation and tens of thousands are at risk of famine. if the situation is not to deteriorate further, europe and the international community must mobilize, including in cooperation with the african union, to promote national reconciliation and to support a process of political and institutional reconstruction in the country. a political transition is needed in south sudan towards democratic forms of government, a transition which could help the people of sudan and also of darfur to emerge from their current state of underdevelopment, suffering and death.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, if there are two countries in sub-saharan africa which need the greatest attention from the european union, and perhaps from the whole of the civilised world, they are the democratic republic of congo and gabon. as far as the congo is concerned, there is certainly a great deal of concern about the implementation of the new year's eve agreements, a great achievement which must, however, be carried forward with the cooperation and attention of the international authorities and international institutions, since it is so difficult to bring about peace between these opposing factions and because the release of political prisoners is proceeding very slowly and suspiciously. it seems to me, as the bishops' conference rightly denounces, a fundamental element in clarifying the real intentions of the old government. as regards gabon, i would say that there is concern about the continuing violence and i think that we should also shed light on the electoral fraud and the conduct of elections in these countries, which are a common negative.
mr president, the current situation shows a profound crisis of democracy in central africa. in several countries there have been electoral irregularities or, quite simply, postponements of elections for an indefinite period. i would like to stress the need to guarantee the separation of powers in all countries. without independence and transparency, democracy in gabon cannot function properly. i denounce the murderous repression by the security forces of peaceful demonstrations. we must hold the perpetrators of these tragedies to account. the leaders must listen to the grievances of their people and i call on the council of the european union to swiftly take targeted sanctions against all those responsible for electoral fraud and irregularities, particularly in gabon. these people have a lot of ties to europe. therefore, the freezing of their assets and the restrictions on their travel will affect them directly. as regards gabon specifically, i also strongly condemn the lack of transparency in the elections, as noted in the final report of the election observation mission. i call on the gabonese authorities to implement all the recommendations, including the reform of the electoral system. we must not allow president ali bongo to let the political crisis rot, as happened in burundi. i also ask the gabonese authorities to formally deny the allegations of corruption by the members of the mission, in order to restore the image of integrity of the european institutions. as far as the drc is concerned, i would like to conclude by saying that elections must now be held as soon as possible and before the end of 2017 so that kabila can finally leave power and hand it over peacefully to the new authorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said, but i would like to stress that the 2016 elections in gabon and the democratic republic of congo have confirmed the poor state of the rule of law in some countries on the african continent. we have been monitoring gabon and the democratic republic of congo and i have to say that while the negotiations mediated by the congolese catholic bishops' conference, which led to the signing of a political agreement under which kabila pledges to step down after the elections to be held in 2017, are promising, the situation in gabon seems far from a real compromise. i believe that the european union must take a strong stand in this respect in defending the democratic aspirations of the people of congo and gabon and condemn in the strongest terms the threats, aggression and use of force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent agreement paving the way for peaceful elections by 2017 in the democratic republic of congo is, after a period of serious tension, good news for this country of vital importance to the great lakes region and to the whole of africa. the congo has been facing a situation of social and political insecurity in recent years, which has been dramatically affected by the civil population, with sudden internal migration or in neighboring countries: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is absolutely essential that europe and the international community work towards the respect of the agreements, the national pacification of the country and the establishment of a democratic political system which allows the alternation of power, in accordance with the constitutional dictates. this is the basic and essential condition for getting the country out of the difficult and dangerous situation in which it finds itself.
in writing. assuming that there are specific eu funds to help democratic development in third countries. it is impossible not to note that in countries such as the congo and gabon the political and social situation is dramatic, there is practically no democracy at all. the current governments have taken power in a manner that is far from democratic, causing very strong social tensions and protests. the eu, with the tools at its disposal, should act to help these two countries emerge from this deep democratic crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, half a million women and girls in europe are living with the physical and psychological consequences of genital mutilation, and yet many member states still have no action plan in place. a proposal for a legislative act establishing preventive measures against all forms of violence against women and, as indicated in the stockholm programme, a strategy including further joint and structured action plans to end female genital mutilation are needed. member states should make use of existing mechanisms, such as directive 2012/29/eu, to protect women and children and to prosecute, convict and punish perpetrators of female genital mutilation, even if committed beyond the borders of the member state concerned. it is therefore necessary that the principle of extraterritoriality be included in the provisions of all member states concerning criminal law in order that the offence may be prosecuted in the same way in all 28 member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union imports some five million tonnes of bananas a year, compared with a production of some 650 000 tonnes, which is entirely destined for the internal market. in the outermost territories of the union in particular, the banana production sector plays a key economic role. around 40 000 jobs depend directly or indirectly on banana production and the sector ensures the sustainability of maritime links, allowing these regions to be regularly supplied. the protection of such a virtuous and economically important sector cannot therefore be dependent on measures to restrict imports. instead, it is appropriate to invest in the specificity of the european supply chain, focusing on innovation and sustainability and maintaining high standards for the entire sector. only in this way can lasting effects of market stabilization be created, avoiding a downward levelling of product quality.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has already spoken for my group. i shall use this minute only to give an example of how necessary this regulation is. many years ago, spain adopted a much-appreciated law ensuring that the provisions of the cfp were applied to its vessels wherever they operated. last year, however, the spanish supreme court overstepped the mark in a case that will have far-reaching implications and could seriously undermine spain's ability to strengthen the cfp provisions and hence fisheries control. a well-known fishing company has been accused of, among other things, falsifying documents and committing crimes against the environment by fishing in the antarctic, for a turnover of 100 million euros. unfortunately, the spanish law alone does not have the legal instruments to prosecute shipowners, who could be the school for other illegal fishing enterprises. this case demonstrates the absolute need for a strengthening of the common rules for the control of fishing in external waters as well as in inland waters. the member states alone are clearly not in a position to do this on their own. as the rapporteur has already said, this regulation is fundamental and it is necessary, in particular, to vote against amendments nos 30 and 48.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner, the rapporteur - who had a difficult task, because the dossier was very demanding - and all the rapporteurs, because the compromise we have reached is certainly a good one, although there are some aspects which perhaps still need to be perfected. the proposal for a regulation under discussion has been long awaited because it responds to the need to reform the management of external fishing fleets in the light of the objectives and principles of the cfp. the point i would like to draw to the attention of this house is that of the dormant agreements, which at present create a regulatory vacuum that could affect the sustainability of resource management in waters outside the european union. these are partnership agreements whose operational protocol has expired and not been renewed and which, by virtue of the exclusivity clause contained therein, do not allow direct authorisations for eu-flagged vessels. the real risk of these agreements is that non-eu countries that do not recognise the high sustainability standards we do - for example social and economic sustainability - can take over the surplus capture in a predatory way and that does not take into account the cooperation aspects underlying our agreements. it is important to stress that the eu's external fishing fleets represent the cfp at international level and that the european union has achieved considerable results in terms of sustainability standards, which must be consistently achieved in the external dimension as well. only then can the european union continue to be a positive and credible example.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not fully capable of monitoring its fleet wherever it operates and whatever the context in which its activities are carried out. the current regulation on fishing authorisations should therefore be revised. i congratulate commissioner vella and the rapporteur on their work. i think the commission has put forward a good proposal which will enable the european union to control its vessels operating outside its waters more effectively by making the procedures for granting authorizations clearer and introducing common rules of eligibility for such vessels. the proposal will ensure a level playing field for all fishing activities by vessels flying the union flag, ensuring that the european union fulfils its responsibilities as flag state and as beneficiary state. the fishing authorisation regulation will also make a concrete contribution to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, thus following up the fao international plan of action against illegal fishing, endorsed by the european union.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. and instead of being inspired by the founding values of our union, for example the right to education, we want to turn it into a system that imitates a system that has failed in america, namely student loans. this is what's really happening. since the new version of erasmus, erasmus+, was approved in 2014, alongside important things that we have supported, such as transparency, simplification of bureaucracy and integration of disciplines, this virus has been introduced, which is the student loan virus. it is a system which has caused and is causing an economic collapse in the united states, a bubble of 1.3 trillion dollars of debt - largely uncollectible debt - which is in danger of overwhelming an entire credit system. fortunately, i have to say, in europe it has been used very little, by 130 students in these three years in only three countries. so we should change course and go back to erasmus, which has been successful. we are, however, moving forward on a path which will destroy one of the few beloved and rightly popular instruments of this institution to pursue models which have failed elsewhere and to give new arguments to anti-europeanism, which has had enough.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done and for the spirit of cooperation he has shown. the report we are about to vote on is a good balance between the groups. although erasmus+ is one of the most successful european programmes, there are still some areas where improvements can be made, and the report has the honour of acknowledging this. for example, it points out that the loan guarantee instrument has not achieved the intended results and calls for a critical assessment of it. i do not think it is possible at all that students should have to go into debt to participate in the programme. it is unacceptable that those who have few, sometimes very few resources should also be burdened with an additional burden. it is the collective that must take responsibility. another aspect which is rightly emphasized is that while it is right to recognize the role of volunteering in this programme, volunteering cannot in any way replace the workforce and public investment. finally, i welcome the calls for simplification of administrative procedures, which have often proved too cumbersome. i would like to conclude with a general comment: the erasmus programme is always cited - as my colleagues have also done - as a positive example of how the european union works and can produce positive results. but if the success of erasmus is unquestionable, we must not fall into the error of using this programme as a propaganda tool in favour of the european union, because the european union is afflicted by too many ills that cannot and must not be subtracted, starting with austerity policies. acceptance of the european project cannot be uncritical. the union must become a community again, putting citizens at the centre of its project, and to do this the erasmus programme has certainly been and is a good starting point.
mr president, i would like to join my speakers in praising the erasmus+ programme in principle. as practical politicians, we probably know that if there is one thing about the european union that clearly works and can be clearly declared as a positive aspect of the european union, especially among young people, it is the erasmus+ programme. at least that's my practical experience from the czech republic, when i meet students as a university cantor, when we talk about erasmus+, everyone here feels and sees a clear positive. among other things, i am convinced, and this is particularly important for us, a former post-communist country, that erasmus allows young people to learn how other eu countries work, and to be less subject to the populist rhetoric of some politicians who base their vision on an anti-european note, on an anti-european ideology. so i very much welcome that, but i am glad that this report describes clear concrete improvements and clear concrete problems that the commission should address and that should influence the commission's work. i will not list all the issues here, but it is a question of mobility not only for university students, but also for apprentices, for example, and for young entrepreneurs who are starting up. these are money-sufficiency issues, especially for eastern and central european countries. the money is not much and often not enough. it is a question of mutual mobility, not only of students from post-communist countries to the west, but also in the future it is necessary to encourage students from western europe to travel more to central and eastern europe, etc. so thank you, and i support the motion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, erasmus+ is the most important instrument of support in the fields of education and training for young people. the results of the erasmus impact study confirm that people who have studied or trained abroad are twice as likely to find a job as those without such experience. the study also shows that social selectivity in the enrolment of mobility programmes in some member states persists. inequalities within and between member states are making access to the programme difficult by hindering applicants with lower incomes. many working students drop out of the programs because of the potential loss of income. the elimination of obstacles to mobility is an essential step towards ensuring equal access to this programme. i believe that the commission and the member states should increase the financial allocation to encourage the participation of those who are not able to participate for economic reasons and look for further possibilities to facilitate their mobility so that erasmus+ can actually become accessible to all.
in writing. in its 30 years of operation, the erasmus programme has helped to enrich the lives of many young europeans by improving their skills and abilities, opening 'windows' to new cultures, encouraging their participation in democratic life, in their own countries and beyond, and in particular by increasing their employment opportunities. to date, some 4 million children and young people and 125 000 schools have benefited from this programme. more than two million university students, 500 000 volunteers, 800 000 teachers and 650 000 trainees have decided to undertake part of their training abroad. these numbers confirm the importance of the programme. the erasmus+ implementation report recognises the great potential of erasmus+ and, in the light of this, the need to provide for wide access, to resolve the issues related to the decentralisation of the funding of the key actions, and to involve stakeholders and beneficiaries in the meetings of the erasmus+ programme committee. investing in training and education and supporting transnational mobility, for study or work, can and must be the way forward to support real economy and employment growth at the same time; to combat the dangerous spread of feelings of intolerance and social exclusion and to promote a sense of common european citizenship.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague on his excellent report. increasing attention to individual physical well-being also increases the need for policies that take due account of sport, beyond its professional dimension. sport is widely perceived as a fundamental right and everyone, including the most socially vulnerable groups such as the elderly, migrants and people with disabilities, should have equal access to it. europe is facing serious social challenges and needs to protect and strengthen all instruments that can generate inclusion, tolerance and positive dialogue. the priority must therefore be to direct resources towards sports activities that are cohesive, sustainable and that actually add value to the places that host them. we cannot forget the economic and symbolic value of major sporting events, but i believe that only by investing in the right to sport for all will we really meet the needs of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spiral of the economic crisis has made life very precarious for millions of european citizens. italy has paid a very high price in terms of job losses. the latest statistics from istat are disturbing: the unemployment rate for young people is above 40% in a general unemployment rate of 12%, which is much higher than in the euro area. the creation of new jobs must become the top priority for italy and for europe. a major action plan needs to be put in place, a plan that includes investment reforms in social housing, physical and digital infrastructure, and educational infrastructure. the italian government is doing its utmost to improve the country's conditions for development and job creation, but it is clear that europe's decisive contribution is needed. we need a more flexible and expansionary economic policy, which will enable our country to overcome its difficulties and combat poverty and unemployment effectively. this is also, and above all, how europe is built.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on democracy and justice in romania.
the commission is also aware of the fact that the romanian authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the law is applied in the country. i am in solidarity with their struggle and with the reaction of president iohannis, who spoke of the decrees as a day of mourning. coming from italy, i know what you mean when you talk about grief. in italy, there have been many attempts to decriminalize corruption and even complicity with the mafia during the years of berlusconi. i can assure you that corruption has been reinforced. i find it particularly disturbing the way in which the emergency decrees were passed: secretly, at night, without consulting parliament and the constitutional court. it's a common practice in europe: the executive power is increasingly being concentrated and the political forces that win elections behave as if this victory would allow the abolishment of the checks and balances on which constitutional democracies are based. the protests of the citizens and the press in romania remind us that they too - associations and press - are powers called upon to restrain the central power, especially in times of economic and social crisis. the romanian government says decriminalisation is necessary to avoid overcrowded prisons, denounced by the european court of human rights. it's an excuse not to stand. the argument has also been used in italy. similar decrees are passed to avoid the imprisonment of a few dozen corrupt politicians. that's all there is. this is something that citizens, ngos, constitutional judges and the president himself in romania are rightly denouncing, in my humble opinion. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i will not go into details, i know that these are two decrees and i only ask you not to speak of interference with justice because this is also a language i know, which we have all heard in italy. when political corruption spreads, those responsible for corruption generally say that there is interference with justice. i urge you to just be careful.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i was inspired by what mr frunzulică said earlier, that we should not be turning this into a party-political confrontation between government and opposition. sadly, that happened here in this house today, which, in a sense, is normal in a political chamber – that is what you get – but on this issue i am a bit saddened by that. i would say to your ppe colleagues that they should hold onto the passion with which they spoke today when we are discussing nations where one of your parties is in power. hold on to that and be exactly the same: you would really help all of us. but for me this has nothing to do with party political issues and, frankly, it is preposterous and rather insulting to suggest that i would be an agent to topple a government led by the party i belong to. that is nonsensical. i am looking at a situation as it is. on these issues, the commission – as we have shown over the last year and certainly since the juncker commission came into being – is colour blind. this is not party political. the issue at hand is very straightforward. we have cooperated with romania in the last 10 years in the cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm). i have cooperated personally with various governments, of differing compositions, and all these governments have cooperated with me personally – with the commission – in a constructive way, albeit, of course, blaming the opposition or saying to us that we are more critical of them when they are in power than we are of the opposition. in that sense, regardless of the political colour in romania, the criticism is always the same. so i accept that criticism. yes, we are critical and sometimes that hurts if you are in government or in parliament. i understand that, but that is simply our role. that is the role of the commission, that is the role we have been given in the treaty and that is the role that also emanates from the cvm. the point i was trying to make this morning is this: romania is in the final stretch of this long, long marathon, leading to a situation where we can all say the development is now irreversible. romania is not at risk of going back to what the situation was in the past. we are almost there. that is what the last cvm report stipulated very clearly, and in our perception the emergency ordinance and the draft legislation seem to indicate another direction – backwards – and i think this needs to be discussed. we signalled it in the cvm report last week. this needs to be discussed because it would not speed up the process. it would slow down the process or even stop the process of where we want to go, namely to the point where we, the commission, can also say that the development is irreversible. that is where we want to get to. so that is why i call upon the authorities in romania carefully to look into what they are doing. i find it very difficult to understand what emergency would warrant an emergency ordinance on this subject. i find it difficult to understand why lowering the standards on fighting corruption is in the interest of the romanian nation. i find it difficult to understand but, of course, this is not interference in internal affairs. the parliament of romania is sovereign in its decisions, and it also has to face the consequences of those decisions. if we in the commission believe those consequences might not be positive, i think it is our duty – even if it is uncomfortable to some – to signal that. that is what we are doing – nothing more, nothing less. i say to everyone in this house that you will not help the situation by turning this into a party-political confrontation, by making this a theoretical battle about principles. it is about facts and actions. let us try to find a cooperative way, as we have done in the past, to come out of this situation. let us pause for a moment to reflect whether this is the right course to take, given also the reactions in the judiciary in romania and from the romanian public. i am encouraged by the fact that so many people attach such great importance to the fight against corruption. hold on to that: it is a great, great asset. i also see that there is overwhelming support in the romanian population for the involvement of the european union in this joint progress towards an irreversible situation. this is strongly supported by the romanian population. nobody is saying that the eu should stay out of it. use this as a strength. i will end with a quote from the famous romanian sculptor, brâncuși, who said: ‘theories are patterns without value. what counts is action.’ let us take action to make sure that this process, towards an irreversible, strong rule of law where corruption is controlled and rooted out, happens soon in romania and that we do nothing that would indicate a different direction.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the measure adopted by the romanian government, which lightened the penalties for a complex of minor offences and for particular cases, has raised a number of concerns. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. the recent mcv report highlights the fact that the romanian state authorities have achieved good and very good results, and that there is considerable progress by the romanian institutions in the fight against corruption and crime in general. the latest government measures are generating discontent and strong criticism among citizens. europe must do everything possible to ensure that romania resumes the path of reform and that the process of combating corruption, which the state has been pursuing for a long time, is continued. there is no room for backsliding in this area, neither for romania nor for any other eu country.
the agenda includes the report by mariya gabriel on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 adopting the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (georgia) (com ((2016) 0142 - c8-0113/2016 - 2016/0075 ((cod)) (a8-0260/2016).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the visa-free regime for georgian citizens travelling to the european union is an important instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations with this important country, but also for intensifying political dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms. georgia is a strategic partner of europe in the framework of the neighbourhood policy and, in particular, the eastern partnership. the association agreement between the european union and georgia signed in 2014 has helped to take relations to a new level and strengthened cooperation in many areas. the contribution of the country of the former soviet union to the fight against organised crime, including terrorism, corruption and human trafficking, can be useful. in the past two years, georgia has made the necessary progress and has fulfilled all the benchmarks set out in the visa liberalisation action plan. i therefore welcome the decision to exempt georgian citizens from visa requirements when travelling to the european union.
mr president, i very much welcome this report. the issue of crossborder adoption has been debated in the european union for many years. i remember the debate in 2009, when the czech republic held the eu presidency, and we were debating whether to amend one european law, one european adoption or to put forward the principle of mutual recognition. i think it is right that the idea of mutual recognition has finally won out, which does not in principle promote the principle of european integration of family law, but rather believes that individual states are capable of adopting correctly within their jurisdiction. so i very much welcome the idea, in my view it is a compromise between those who want to make the cross-border aspects of adoption more efficient on the one hand, and those who do not want a single european family law. the correction is correct and i congratulate the rapporteur and hope that it will work in practice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the best interests of the child are inherent in respect for his fundamental rights, which can only be truly respected if the perspective is reversed by changing the angle of view from the adult to the child. it is the task of the institutions and all the social actors, and above all the family, to facilitate this capacity. in international adoptions, which are a meeting of affections, but also of profoundly different cultures, the protective family nucleus develops with a trilateral relationship: the court of justice has held that the principle of non-discrimination is not applicable to the situation of a child, adoptive parent and biological parent, with the peculiar elements of alienation which are typical of private international law. in the case of crossborder adoption, there are also greater legal uncertainties, due primarily to the different national recognition procedures and the divergence of the guiding principles. the only remedy and primary reference point for any cross-border adoption procedure therefore remains substantive and non-formal compliance with article 21 of the united nations convention on the rights of the child.
in writing. there are still too many obstacles to adoption, with many crossborder cases affecting thousands of families. with mr zwiefka's report, measures are being put on the table which many european citizens have been waiting for for a long time. i appreciate the effort made to suggest homogeneous and comprehensive proposals: i too believe that introducing a general regulation can be a very effective instrument. i would like to stress in particular the provision for common minimum standards for adoption, based in particular on the belief that every adoption decision is made purely in the interests of the child, and is assessed according to the specific characteristics of each case. the exchange of information between the consular authorities responsible for the adoption of a child who is a national of another member state would already be a concrete step forward and would be immediately applicable, and i hope that the commission will be able to propose rapid and effective rules on the basis of some of the examples suggested.
madam president, i have been delayed in this report and i would like to explain why. i do not want to be anti-sport, i am aware of the importance of sport in human life, but i wonder how much of the issue of sport is the eu's responsibility and how much is not the responsibility of individual national states. however, there are things in the report that made me stay. for example, the attempt to have a special prosecutor's office to deal with sports offences, i think it's a really strange thing, i don't know why we should have a special prosecutor's office, especially for this type of crime. in small countries, on the other hand, this would probably result in such authorities having little work to do and, on the contrary, their expertise would rather decrease. so sports certainly do, but the question is how much to take in at eu level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must be an opportunity for citizens and not an obstacle. the situation of a family with adopted children who decide to move abroad can turn into a bureaucratic nightmare: it may even happen that the adoption procedure is not recognised, new practices may have to be introduced - it would be like asking a child to be reborn. and if the second country's assessment was different, what would happen? paradoxical situations would be created. i voted in favour of this report because it makes it clear that adoption is not the right of a couple to become parents but the right of a child to live in a stable, loving and caring environment. it is understandable that the legal systems of the member states differ, but action is necessary in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the first step could be the adoption of a regulation for the automatic recognition of adoption orders in the member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the common fisheries policy is perhaps the policy which has had the worst impact on its productive sector. of course, great progress has been made in terms of the environment, sustainability, and the repopulation of fish, but fishermen have seen the rules and regulations that they have to comply with multiply and have had to undertake costly restructuring. they have done all this in order to continue their activities in accordance with the principles imposed by brussels. the external dimension of fishing is another sore spot. it is certainly good that the european union is fulfilling its responsibilities as a flag state, but it would be appropriate for the union to also fulfill its responsibilities to protect fishing vessels that are fishing in very unsafe conditions and are exposed to great risks. i would like to mention again the case of sicilian fishermen who risk their lives in conflicts with the police in neighbouring countries, particularly in libya. we call this the fish war, because it involves kidnappings and shootings, and the european union must also take responsibility for this and deal with it.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 2 february 2017.
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 9 february 2017, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: tuesdayreported that it had received a request from the group of the 'progressive alliance of socialists and democrats' for the title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy 'prospects for the resumption of the middle east peace talks' to be changed to 'the situation in the west bank, including settlements'. the s&d group also requested that a resolution on the situation in the west bank including settlements, which was discussed on 22 november 2016, be added to the votes on thursday 16 february. does anyone in the socialist group want to explain the proposal?
i certainly do. the first proposal concerns the change of the title of the debate to 'the situation in the west bank, including the settlements'. the second proposal is that a resolution on the situation in the west bank, including the settlements, be added to the vote on thursday 16 february. so we are only voting now on the first proposal that the socialist group has made, namely whether to change the text to 'the situation in the west bank, including the settlements'. (parliament adopted the resolution) the title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy 'prospects for the resumption of the middle east peace talks' was therefore changed to 'the situation in the west bank including settlements'. the second point is the second request from the socialist group. if you would like to elaborate, your honor, thank you.
the europe of freedom and direct democracy group has asked for a debate on the uniform application of parliament's rules of procedure to all political groups to be added on tuesday morning.
the agenda remains unchanged. wednesdaythe european united left/nordic green left group asked for a commission statement on port operations and freedom of establishment in spanish ports to be added. this statement should be added as the fourth point after the delvaux report on the civil law rules on robotics. the sitting will therefore be extended until 12 noon. i give the floor to mr lópez bermejo to present the request of the gue/ngl group.
the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats also asked for the oral question on the commission's approval of germany's revised road toll plan to be brought forward from thursday afternoon to wednesday afternoon, as the fifth item after the delvaux report on civil law rules on robotics. the vote will take place at the march part-session.
before i put it to the vote, i would like to know whether mr grossetête, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, has an alternative proposal. (mr grossetête confirms that he has no alternative proposals) was he referring to the emergency room in general? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would remind you that if the strasbourg partsession is not filled, the brussels part-session is at risk. because it is stated that the brussels mini-session must take place if all the work planned for the strasbourg session cannot be done. since france has already referred our decision to vote on the budget in brussels and not in strasbourg to the court of justice, i think we should be very cautious on this point. i repeat, we can vote and take it off the agenda, but i think we must start thinking about whether we can put some other debate on thursday afternoon, otherwise the brussels partsession is at risk. so it is expected that we can, exceptionally - and therefore it would be an exception what we are going to approve today - but i would like to let the house know what the consequences can be of a habit of taking debates off on thursday afternoons. it was my duty to inform you. i now put to the vote the proposal from the socialist and democratic group. (parliament agreed to the request) the oral question is brought forward from thursday afternoon to wednesday afternoon, as the fifth item after the delvaux report on the civil law rules on robotics. the vote will take place as scheduled at the march partsession. thursday following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda. the sitting will begin at 8.30 a.m. so that the political groups have more time to speak. (parliament agreed to the request)
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the committee on biological low risk pesticides by herbert dorfmann, pavel poc, julie girling, frédérique ries, lynn boylan, bart staes, eleonora evi, mireille d'ornano, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000147/2016 - b8-1821/2016).
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too have signed this resolution to ask the commission to take action to facilitate the introduction of naturally occurring pesticides into the market. in order to reduce the environmental and health impact of industrial products, including agricultural products, we must have the courage to make it easier for companies who believe in the green economy to do so. it is not right that those who produce niche products and those who use them should face the same administrative and bureaucratic burden as those who do not pay for the passive externalities of their work. natural molecules and pesticides can reduce the overall impact of treatments, by reducing emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases during production and by reducing the impact on biodiversity and non-target organisms and on human health. a recent stoa assessment of the pros and cons of organic farming found a positive impact of organic consumption on some childhood cognitive disorders found at current levels of exposure to synthetic pesticides. so let's do this for future generations: the problem agriculture can and must become the solution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, an ispra report documents an increase in pesticides in surface and deep waters in italy. a legambiente study entitled 'pesticides on the plate' shows that a third of the fruit and vegetable samples analysed contain pesticide residues. samples with up to nine active substances present at the same time are increasing. italy alone accounts for about 33% of the total quantities of insecticides used in the community and there are 800 products currently on the market. the risks to human health, especially to children, are very high, think of endocrine disruptors. the damage to ecosystems, as in the case of glyphosate, the most widely used herbicide in the world, whose impact on the body is insidious and manifests itself slowly over time, is very serious. however, france legally recognised parkinson's disease as an occupational disease from pesticide exposure as early as 2012. the commission must give us answers, it must make citizens aware of what it is doing to protect their health and that of the area in which they live. we are asking for specific action within two years and not a refit procedure which could take up to 10 years and end without any decision. this would be to the detriment of farmers and consumers who have the right to produce and consume products with the lowest possible risk. the real innovation today, commissioner, is to adopt the agro-ecological approach, to improve soil fertility, to diversify production, to increase carbon sequestration capacity, to ensure adequate harvests and to tackle pest and weed control, monitoring natural dynamics.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, low-risk plant protection products of organic origin are a valid alternative to conventional plant protection products, both for conventional and organic farming. the new mechanisms of action in some of the new generation of organic plant protection products could represent an important advantage, also in the light of the evolution of resistance to conventional plant protection products. however, a number of member states refuse to authorise products containing low-risk active substances of biological origin because of their alleged lower efficacy. i am of the opinion that low-risk plant protection products of biological origin should be the preferred option for users where they have the same efficacy as conventional pesticides. the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market therefore needs to be revised in order to improve the current registration process for basic substances with low risk, which in fact sometimes takes the form of a patent, making it difficult to use a product with the same substance not registered.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, first i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this file for the good and cooperative work they have done. this is a report on a crucial subject at a crucial moment. the old consensus is about to expire and the european union is facing a redefinition of its policies on development. this is happening while the european union is addressing all the challenges caused by migration flows and while the european union is under pressure. development policy is about development. this might sound strange, but we have to repeat this concept, now more than ever. we have to repeat that development funds have to be used exclusively for development causes. we have to repeat that oda cannot be used to finance security expenses, border control or military support. of course terrorism must be fought in the most effective way, and of course borders have to be controlled, but not by diverting the funds devoted to development. otherwise, poverty will never be eradicated, development will never be assured, and the root causes of migration and terrorism will never be tackled. it will be important to repeat this in the strongest and clearest manner during the structured dialogue involving parliament, the commission and the council. this has already started and will bring us very soon to the approval of the new consensus on development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteurs. the review of the consensus, which will serve as a framework for european development policies in the years ahead, could not come at a better time, now that we finally have to have a plan for the implementation and monitoring at european level of the new sustainable development agenda. the real challenge is the universality of the agenda. we therefore need coherent development policies, from tackling inequality to climate change, from the use of new resources for development to the commitment to reach 0.7%, to a relentless fight against tax evasion and avoidance that do so much damage to the poorest countries. if we fail to do so, we will continue to take away with one hand what we give with the other. we must radically change our approach to migration. it is not a problem to be solved, but an opportunity for development, avoiding outsourcing and conditionality of aid. this is a short-sighted logic which would cost european credibility dearly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve the objectives set by the un 2030 agenda, the european institutions and the member states have a duty to invest in projects that promote rapid and comprehensive change. in this respect, sustainable agriculture must be recognised as playing a leading role. agricultural enterprises contribute to food security, supply local markets with raw materials and ensure a fair income with decent living conditions for workers. they are a perfect example of the virtuous convergence between development and sustainability and a priority lane for achieving the sustainable development goals. the european union needs to make this sector a pillar of its development policies, investing in climate resilient agricultural systems, promoting green practices and improving the productivity of family farms. only greater attention to the agricultural and food sectors can facilitate the meeting between economic progress and quality of life.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during these months of work on the ets file we have devoted a great deal of time to examining the problems facing industry: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but there has been very little debate about the real effectiveness of the ets in reducing emissions. no one has explained to us, for example, how we can be sure that a percentage reduction, the so-called linear reduction factor, or the gradual reduction of the emission allowances allocated to installations, will actually reduce emissions. i repeat, a real reduction and not a virtual one. in fact, since actual emissions are only known for the year after they occur, the only certainty that can be had is that plants emitting more than they are entitled to will simply have to buy additional emission permits to those previously received. here is the most absurd, insane and distorted application of the polluter pays principle. but let's take comfort in the fact that at least the ets is making money from selling the shares. but those who hope that this money will be used to finance measures to compensate for emissions already in the atmosphere are wrong, it is only an illusion, there is no obligation for the member states in this respect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. but there's more: we asked the industry what price of co2 they thought would be worth investing in structural improvements to apply the best technologies, given a fluctuating price of co2. all, without exception, admitted that they were not able to make these assessments and that they were not incentivised to make major investments in the absence of stability. but wasn't the ets supposed to encourage low-carbon innovation? i mean, the system's not working. in our view, more ambitious and binding targets on renewables, efficiency and energy savings could lead to much more tangible and immediate results.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this dossier. a complex dossier, a dossier in which everyone has collaborated to give a long-term vision, improve the quality of the environment and contribute with a collective effort to reduce carbon emissions. on the whole, we have reached a good compromise. perhaps there is still something to be corrected so that some sectors can still find a place in the europe of growth, but on the other hand the line is drawn and i believe and i want to invite all the political groups to support by the final vote, whatever the small changes made, a large legislative package that takes us on the road to the paris agreement to achieve the long-term, ambitious objectives that we have defended in parliament and that we will have to continue to negotiate with the council, indicating a long-term road that is an important road, that of the progressive decarbonisation of our economy and a better environment in which we want our children and our descendants to live.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you must understand that there are too many instruments which distort competition in europe and you only need to read this dossier to understand it. this dossier, which started with a few pages from the commission, comes to this house with over 30 pages. in every article, in every point in this dossier, there is something that the commission must reflect on, because competition in europe is distorted by so many factors. we hope that all the instructions given to the commission will be respected. i would like to point out that for the first time in this dossier we have established that boycotts are a means of distorting and distorting competition and that they must be punished and reintroduced. we have identified, commissioner, a very serious distortion of competition in the identification and payment of tolls which are imposed on taxpayers and citizens to get out of the city. this phenomenon is frequent in italy for example on the naples ring road you have to pay one euro to get out of the city and you want to replicate it in other ring roads in our country. we are submitting this dossier with all the relevant information and we are confident that you will enforce it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have read the rapporteur's report carefully and listened to what the members have said in the house today, which has focused on a few individual problems in individual sectors and a few cases relating to their own countries. but i think that once again we have missed the opportunity to deal with the general problem, the structural problem of competition within the european union. in this system, the term competition is translated into the ruthless competition of the stronger who makes the rules and shapes them according to his system on the weaker. competition within this single market is heavily distorted by rules and has a destructive effect on the economies of the weaker countries. some examples: the first, and most obvious, is the single currency, which creates distorted competition between countries which enjoy a debased effective exchange rate and can therefore, in order to support their industrial system, export their products more easily and more cheaply, and countries which have to operate with a real exchange rate too high for the strength of their economy. another area where competition is distorted is that of banks, on state aid. a country like italy is criticized for the weakness of its banking system and has to knock and bargain with the commission for a few billion euros to save the savings of its citizens, and instead, before and after 2008, larger countries have given hundreds of billions of euros to save their banking systems: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not fair competition. there is no competition on the subject of banking union either. a distorting system of rules that rewards a riskier business model, such as derivatives and tier 3 assets, which are not properly considered by the commission, and credit, which are instead penalized. if the european union continues in this way, destruction is inevitable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a fair competition policy is essential to the proper functioning of the single market, which, as we know, still has its problems. the commission has recently identified several cases of multinational companies that have taken billions of euros of tax revenue from national budgets, sometimes with the complicity of the member states themselves. these incidents are alarming and call for a detailed examination of alleged cases of state aid and an immediate end to ad hoc tax schemes. the commission should continue to investigate anti-competitive practices in the online digital sector and speed up procedures on antitrust and taxation issues in a timely manner, so as to ensure that smes and digital startups can operate in a more balanced and fair competition environment in a market that is often driven by multinational digital giants. the commission must take decisive action to safeguard competition in the telecommunications and energy sectors in order to encourage affordable prices and service choices.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de jong, for his report and work on this very important topic. i think it is a thing that we share, that these rules are of the essence for the legitimacy of the advisory and expert groups. this commission has paid very close attention to the role which expert groups play in our policy making. and we have laid down tougher internal rules in order to make sure that these groups carry out their function in full transparency and accountability exactly as asked. let me stress just one thing, because this is very basic. expert groups provide very useful contributions to the work of the commission in many different policy fields, of which many are highly technical and of a specialised nature. but i think it is very important to recall that no matter what advice is given by expert groups, they have a purely advisory role. whatever their advice may be, the responsibility for any decision or measure adopted remains the commission’s and the commission's alone. but when this commission took office we decided that the rules for expert groups needed to be reviewed so as to better reflect the commission's commitment to be more transparent and accountable. before adopting a new set of rules, we listened to this parliament, the european ombudsman and civil society organisations. after a full year of consultation and intensive preparation the commission adopted new rules in may last year. we consider these new rules, which are binding for all of the commission services, to improve significantly the management, the balance and the transparency of expert groups and we also consider that they provide a positive response to many suggestions made by this house and by the european ombudsman. just let me give you a few concrete examples. the new rules confirm – reconfirm – the commission's commitment to strive for a balanced composition of expert groups. the commission’s departments must do their utmost to guarantee a balanced representation. this does not mean balanced in a mathematical sense, which would be difficult to define and achieve in all cases; it means maximum balance in terms of expertise, interests, gender, and geographical origin. the new rules also bring significant changes to boost transparency. we have set up a new register for expert groups. this register is accessible for the public and provides more accurate information and more documents drafted and discussed by expert groups. in particular, the commission will henceforth publish the register calls for applications when it selects stakeholders’ representatives as well as expert group members appointed in their personal capacity. this is a major step forward and has been a long-standing request from this parliament. in other words, we have made the selection procedures fully transparent and inclusive, which ultimately benefits the balance of the composition of expert groups. second, registration in the transparency register has now become a precondition for stakeholders’ organisations to be appointed to an expert group. this means that where particular interests are represented in an expert group there will be full transparency as regards the nature of these interests. third, every document that an expert group produces must now be put on the register of expert groups. minutes will have to be provided, which makes complete and meaningful sense. moreover, expert groups can also decide to open up their meetings to the general public. last but not least, we have taken tough measures to avoid conflict of interest in expert groups. under the new rules, independent experts can only be appointed on the basis of standardised and detailed conflict-of-interest assessment based on the declaration submitted by these experts. only if the commission services conclude that there is no conflict of interest may those experts be appointed in their personal capacity. in addition, all declarations of interest of independent experts are published in the register of expert groups. these tougher rules we have put in place to ensure – and i do hope that you find that we, the commission and this house, share the objective – a high degree of transparency and accountability for the functioning of expert groups. the commission is committed to rigorously applying our new rules and we know of course that you will scrutinise us closely and we remain of course open to continuing the dialogue with this parliament as to how to improve and how to make sure that we follow closely this important matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption and fraud is and must increasingly be a central theme of the eu's political action, which must be equipped with the appropriate measures and instruments to enable particularly complex investigations such as those normally related to cases of corruption and financial fraud to the detriment of the union. an important resource in this respect are whistleblowers, whose contribution - as we heard from mr de jong - has brought to light cases of conflicts of interest, tax evasion and avoidance, money laundering and also infiltration by organised crime to the detriment of the union's financial interests. it is therefore desirable that the commission submits as soon as possible a legislative proposal to ensure the protection of whistleblowers in accordance with common standards in all member states and to create secure channels for reporting irregularities, allowing confidentiality and sharing of information, while ensuring adequate assistance to the whistleblower.
in writing. the role of whistleblowers in upholding the rule of law and thus also in protecting the financial interests of the union is absolutely central. the guarantee of protection for those who provide information in this respect must therefore be absolute; the protection in this sense must also extend to the economic aspects, because it is easy for whistleblowers to lose their jobs as a result of their reporting. the level of protection of such persons varies greatly from one member state to another and it is therefore necessary to introduce european minimum standards in this respect. we are therefore committed to seeking timely approval from the commission to produce a legislative proposal to this effect.
the agenda for the joint debate includes the report by guy verhofstadt, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the possible evolution and adjustment of the current institutional structure of the european union (2014/2248(ini) - (a8-0390/2016), the report by mercedes bresso and elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty' (2014/2249(ini) - (a8-0386/2016), and the report by reimer böge and pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on 'budgetary capacity of the euro area' (2015/2344(ini) - (a388-00/2017).
i would like to thank mr juncker and then vice-president timmermans on behalf of the commission.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the crisis, but that it should be involved in the political dialogue. there is no attempt to understand it, since no substantial error is recognized as such. the solution is purely technical and institutional, because crises are seen as external or alien events, not as failures of the union. i am talking about the increasingly refoulement-based immigration policies, the devastating debate on grexit, the brexit child of grexit. i am talking about the social disaster that is driving so many citizens to despair of the union. the report by mr bresso and mr brock merely promotes the idea, and rightly so, of a minimum wage, when today a citizen's income is urgently needed. the verhofstadt report is silent on the social question. the speakers are assured that they are inspired by the founding fathers. i don't think they did, because the founders didn't have a particular policy in mind. they challenged the absolute sovereignty of the states to put an end to the wars, and thus to the poverty that had destroyed europe in the 1930s. they had in mind a constitution that would allow for the alternation of different policies, without pronouncing on them. the two reports propose more efficient and faster institutional techniques for perpetuating the same policies that led to the crisis. the fate of the fiscal compact is exemplary. a ruinous policy which divides citizens and outsiders is written into the marble of the treaties, protected by universal suffrage, spectacularly confirming that the union is a market which serves the strongest, has nothing federal and is deeply indifferent to the principle of reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago angela merkel sent a message to europe, saying that for her the future of europe is a two-speed europe. i would like to clarify this concept, which is also expressed in the report by mrs berès, which we have been following for some weeks and months. the concept of a euro area budget for some countries and the institutionalisation of the troika in this budget, with a finance minister who will dictate to angela merkel's german will, in terms of reforms, privatisation and so on, will not be acceptable to the citizens of the euro area and to the citizens of southern europe in particular. on the other hand, we'll have the second speed, which is the countries that are going to follow brexit and that have gotten the hang of it. so, since this proposal will not be implemented, we need to think together now about an alternative plan b, before a country gives in to what is blackmail and decides not to give in to this blackmail any more and unilaterally pulls the plug on the euro, bringing down this whole house of cards. it is important now to react by making different proposals, because what is coming from angela merkel is a proposal for a europe with german traction, and neither i nor my colleagues will ever accept that europe should go in that direction. (the rapporteur agrees to reply to a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i do not think that europe will end if it ends what is a constraint, namely the monetary constraint of the euro. it is now clear and well established to everyone that this constraint is only facilitating one economy, which is the german economy, which enjoys an undervalued currency and is destroying the internal market of the other eurozone countries and creating a social disaster. i do not see any of you complaining, as you should, about situations such as the social crisis in greece, italy and other countries. so, once we have established that there is a problem, i see a future for europe, but without a structure as heavy as that of the european union and where we can cooperate in respect above all of our constitutions. let us get rid of the monetary constraint and you will see that the european union will solve many more problems than it is unable to solve today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder whether those who call for the solution of more europe to solve our problems really believe in it or do so only because they do not want to admit the failure of this criminal project. brexit is the proven proof of failure and mistrust of the eu is rising in every country, including my own, where only one in three citizens believes in the european union. the single currency, the euro, was the criminal project that finally buried the peoples of europe, and instead of talking about dismantling economic and monetary union, we are even proposing a budget for the eurozone, which will sanction the destructive institutionalisation of the troika. with brexit, the eu and the euro have become walking dead. let us face up to this and start building a europe other than the eu, made up of sovereign independent states. (the rapporteur agrees to reply to a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to a blue-card question. i disagree a little bit about whether the european union has brought peace to europe. i believe that the peace in europe was brought about by us military bases and missiles aimed at moscow, not by the european union. as regards the question of whether or not european citizens are dissatisfied with the union, i am not in agreement here either. just look at ten years ago, five years ago, the support that european citizens in europe gave to the european union, which was high, and what it is today. as i said, in my country today only one in three citizens, less than half, supports the european union. these are the figures of a statistic that has just come out, and the proof will be the elections in the major european countries that we will have in the coming months, where the eurosceptic parties will gain large percentages. they may not win this round, but if things continue as they are, with the euro bringing poverty, economic recession and destruction, they will win the next round.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these two reports, which i have been following in the afco committee, seem to me to be the perfect synthesis of the cat-and-mouse thinking that is floating around in these chambers: that everything must change so that everything remains exactly as it was, or rather as previously planned. the process of removing from the mind the events of the last few years is not yet over, then. where is the concrete answer to the real priorities of the citizens, to climate change, unemployment, the devastating social consequences of the crisis, which you also mention? not received. strangely enough, other policies, especially economic ones, are more than present. instead of scrapping the absurd fiscal compact, you would like it to be included in the legal corpus of the union. as usual, you are calling for greater integration as a mere club to impose failed, disintegrating policies, rather than change them! the excuse for yet another dramatic fiasco will be the usual invective against the rise of nationalism, when everyone in this house knows full well that this is the consequence and certainly not the cause of the problem. the satisfaction of a souvenir photo of you in rome for the 60th anniversary of the treaty may satisfy some egos, but not the future of the european project! (the rapporteur agrees to reply to a question on the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to a blue-card question. i have read these reports very carefully and i can assure you that, in addition to the eurobarometer data, i also know the data from the barometer of the public squares and that the three priorities that the citizens are asking for today are work, work, work. there is nothing social in these reports, there is no response at the social level to the consequences of the crisis, there is no will to change, to talk about public investment, to create jobs. there is always the same recipe for austerity that we keep seeing applied. there is no self-criticism, and i think that is the greatest failure in the face of the challenges facing us as european citizens today. if you don't understand that, i'm afraid in a few months it'll be too late to do that.
i remember that the procedure involves a speaker's 'blue card', otherwise it becomes 'question time'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with these reports the european parliament is taking part at the highest level in the debate on the future of the union, making a contribution that is both ambitious and realistic. the reports set out a path which starts from the full use of the existing treaties and outlines the basic lines of a revision of them, while at the same time defining a vision. it does not do so by prescribing a policy, mr spinelli, but by setting out a path which will enable the european citizens to decide democratically which policies to adopt. what are the underlying concepts of this vision? the first is that it is not only possible but necessary to reconcile different rates of development with the primacy of common institutions and the community method. differentiated integration must be a tool for uniting europe and not for dividing it. the second principle is that, to be effective, european governance must be democratic and the principles of attribution, proportionality and subsidiarity must be fully integrated with that of representative democracy at national and european level. these concepts are particularly clear when we face the completion of economic and monetary union. to function well, the euro needs a third leg alongside the common monetary policy and national fiscal policies. a common fiscal capacity is needed to absorb symmetrical and asymmetrical shocks, precisely to avoid putting monetary policy and the stability pact under excessive strain and also to support economic convergence between member states. this capacity can and must be placed in the union budget and does not require a reform of the treaties. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers. mr president, the development of a union of european states and citizens is not a federal leap, but an ongoing historical process. it's a statue already. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the union and its direction do not need new visions; they have already thought about it more than 60 years ago. it is all written in the promises we europeans have made to the citizens, in the commitments that europe itself has made when it presented itself as capable of promoting prosperity, inclusion for the most vulnerable citizens, freedom and rights. it is true that we have been a factory and a motor of ideals and values, but we have translated them too little and too late into deeds and results, and now we are paying a very high price which is putting the very idea of europe at risk. we must therefore start from there, from the broken promises social europe , from the insufficient results growth, from the denied or betrayed objectives solidarity and unity , to fill the gap in trust and love for europe. what has become hostile in the eyes of the citizens is this european union, perceived as a factory of constraints, stifling legislation and not attentive to the citizens. that is our challenge. we have heard very strong voices in this house, and that is good news because we all know that this may be the last time we can get back on the right track.
in writing. the joint debate on the three reports under discussion gives us a better understanding of the overall issues at stake for the future of europe. we must start with what is already there and reflect in depth on the instruments and potential offered by the lisbon treaty. no new instruments and no additional superstructure are needed to change the pace of our europe. a stronger political momentum and greater integration can, with constant treaties, enable us to meet the challenges of our times. we need to be able to respond to economic, financial, migration and security emergencies. we need more europe! we must encourage the political integration of our union. that is the meaning of the three reports which we are going to support with conviction.
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased and honoured to welcome the president of the republic of austria, mr alexander van der bellen, to this house. it is an important signal to us all that the president has chosen the european parliament's seat in strasbourg as the venue for his first visit outside the borders of the republic of austria. parliament is the voice of the citizens of the european union and we have an obligation to listen and to help build a europe that is ever closer to the citizens. if europe is to be a fully viable project again, it must prove itself capable of solving the problems that concern europeans. since 1 january, austria has held the presidency of the osce and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and will hold the presidency of the european union in the second half of 2018. austria is a success story, a country that has benefited enormously from the european union. in the past it was politically on the periphery of the then european community, with the iron curtain behind it. just 20 years later, it is at the heart of europe, with a thriving economy at the heart of the single market.
as we prepare to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, i count on austria to play a key role towards delivering a stronger and more effective europe. i look forward to working constructively with president van der bellen over the coming years of the austrian presidency. thank you very much, mr president. you have the floor. (applause)
thank you very much, mr president. this is a good start. in the next year, the european parliament and your country will cooperate to make a better europe and to do good work for european citizens. (applause)
thank you, mr caspary. i shall be sure to convey your request and that of many colleagues to the bureau. there is another request. please, sir.
i would like to take up your comment and forward your request to president tajani's office.
the agenda shall be closed at the end of the voting. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main weapon against corruption is to support honest and committed people, those who are not afraid to expose themselves and for the public good report the irregularities they witness. however, there are still too many differences in the level of protection between european countries. the european public good and the financial interests of the union need other guarantees, european guarantees. corruption is a scourge that must be fought, first of all by forming a common sense of protecting the public good and then by strict rules for those who cheat and high levels of protection for whistleblowers, for those who report. fraud and irregularities are committed at local level, but they affect the european interests of all citizens. leaving whistleblowers to the mercy of the national reference system is in effect a discouragement of cooperation. fear of retaliation is the first deterrent. so here's where and how to carve again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that competition policy is a bulwark of the european union, through which the union guarantees very high standards for consumers, but there are certain categories of products for which this is a system that creates injustices and great imbalances. the agricultural sector in the european union is composed mainly of small farms. agricultural markets are characterised by greater price volatility due to the length of production cycles and supply management is indeed very rigid. they are the weakest link in the chain with little bargaining power and little resilience to market fluctuations. weaknesses but often disasters which farmers have experienced even more during this year, a period of enormous economic crisis which has highlighted the lack of instruments to manage price volatility. competition policy cannot take account only of the sacrosanct perspective of consumers, because there is a universe of unfair commercial practices which force the withdrawal of many producers from the market and cause a real death of firms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the report's position on the promotion of gender equality in clinical research and mental health and i particularly emphasize paragraphs 41 and 51. in my region and in my city of taranto, the battle for the protection of women with endometriosis has been going on for years. in this battle, a committee, taranto lider, from below, promoted a law approved by the puglia region in 2014, the implementation of which provides in these weeks the development of an assisted diagnostic therapeutic protocol for early diagnosis and the achievement of a good quality of life for women. a broad view of diseases is needed, reconciling existing therapies, which are not always effective, with the latest scientific findings regarding the link with immunology, nutrition and psychology for better functioning of the immune system. i would remind you that the excess risk associated with exposure to pollutants such as dioxins, pcbs and sulphur dioxide in polluted areas has been established, and taranto is the symbol of these areas. europe should speed up the development of guidelines at european level on this issue. europe can and must do its part to protect women affected by this disease, which affects their daily lives and in 50% of cases causes infertility. as a woman from tarentum who has been involved in the battle with the committee from the start, i can only vote in favour.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the crisis, well over two thirds of the aid granted by the troika and its offshoots, such as the european stability mechanism (esm), has been used to repay the same debt contracted with the international banking system and the european financial institutions. the greek public debt, with a ratio to gdp of 130% to 180%, reached eur 320 billion, but this was less than the figure committed by the troika under the three economic adjustment programmes for greece. with what results? decreased incomes, skyrocketing unemployment, rampant poverty, welfare devastated the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. yet, even with the implementation of the most ambitious reforms, greece will not be able to recover unless there is debt relief from its european partners. the recent measures introduced in this direction will not be enough, because when they are in place they will reduce the debt-to-gdp ratio by just 20% by 2060. how much more despair, misery and suicide will this europe, the europe of the banks and big finance, which is bringing the europe of the peoples to its knees, require?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the social bomb is about to explode in greece, as in other countries brought to their knees by this european soviet union. countries massacred by a wrong currency, the euro, which enriched a very few people, impoverishing the vast majority of european citizens. the euro is a german-issued currency that has only served german interests. i, we've been saying it for years. today, many people in europe and beyond agree with us. even president trump of the united states agrees with us. one of the architects of the euro disaster was romano prodi, a character hated by the italian people, but much loved in brussels and berlin. it was he, when he was president of the european commission, who bowed to the german diktats, it was prodi who approved the murderous exchange between the lira and the euro. the euro was a criminal project that tore our economy apart. the human and social costs of 15 years of the single currency are very high. today, one italian in four is poor and one in two young people is unemployed. we are leaving the euro to stop this social carnage called europe. we take back control of our currency and we will finally be able to create jobs and hope for our people.
mr president, this is a crucial debate and i welcome the constructive position of the commission, while i take note with some surprise that the economic and financial affairs council (ecofin) presidency apparently has nothing to say and seems not to be interested in the topic. next week, the eurogroup and creditor institutions must take a significant decision in the general interest of greece and of the whole eurozone. we expect a swift, positive conclusion of the second review, taking into account the encouraging results that you are seeing in the greek economy and also the very challenging global, political and economic context, which requires that europe shows resilience and unity. as commission vice-president dombrovskis pointed out, thanks to the implementation of the programme, greece is outperforming its targets, including in the primary surplus. these positive results should not be jeopardised on the basis of dogmatic and short-sighted positions or internal politics. we are not interested in internal politics. we are interested in the future of the greek people and of europe. it is now time for all parties to enhance their efforts and to go one step further. the greek government should continue its reforms, including effective labour market reform in line with eu best practices, and speed up their implementation, safeguarding the agreed targets after 2018, including through a possible contingency mechanism. on the other hand, the second review needs to be successfully concluded without any further delay, and unacceptable requests, for example for pre-legislation for measures worth 2% of gdp or for giving up collective bargaining, should be avoided. furthermore, debt relief measures must be better defined, recognising that the primary surplus of 3.5% is possible, but only for a very limited period of time. there is no room for further delay, and this parliament will not accept jeopardising the integrity of the euro area and the future of the greek people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, listening to this debate on the further escalation of hostilities in eastern ukraine, it is clear that the only culprit has already been identified. it is russia, which this house has repeatedly pointed to as the sole cause of most of the world's problems. voices that express a different point of view are few and mostly ignored. judge and jury are the ones who are already present. only the hangman is missing, i should say. in fact, what's really happening on the ground is much harder to explain, especially without a premise. despite the appalling number of dead and missing, the current conflict is mostly fought with propaganda. as aeschylus said, and as i have often said in this chamber, the first casualty of war is the truth, while the real victims are to be found in the streets of avdiivka, crushed by the political games of the great powers. but who can really exclude that the current ukrainian government is not also aiming, even thanks to this renewed tension, to remove the spectre of a lifting of sanctions and to bring washington closer together? perhaps with irony i could quote the words of the much-maligned trump who, during an interview, to the journalist who claimed that putin is a killer, answered without hesitation: do you really think our country is so innocent?
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to every action there is an equal and opposite reaction. even newton could not have foreseen how dramatically perfect his third law of dynamics would be for illustrating the israeli-palestinian conflict. let's start with a fact: security council resolution 2334 condemned the settlements in the strongest terms, calling them a flagrant violation of international law. the colonies have no legal standing. the support was almost unanimous, with only the united states abstaining. the israeli reaction was unfortunately not long in coming. first, he recalled the ambassadors from new zealand and senegal, with whom he also cancelled cooperation agreements. then he warned those in as many as ten other countries. finally, he said that he did not want to comply with the terms of the resolution and withdraw the annual allocation of 6 million dollars from the united nations. on 24 january, the announcement of 2 500 new homes in the west bank and 566 in jerusalem was made, while on 6 february the knesset approved the infamous regularization law which will allow the legalisation of as many as 4 000 israeli settlements in the west bank. and yet another reaction, from un secretary general guterres, who warned israel that the adoption of this law will have legal consequences. on the other hand, hamas has chosen a new leader for gaza. this is yahya sinwar, 55, hawk among the hawks. certainly the worst possible choice for the israeli people, but perhaps not so bad for its current government. i do not know about you, ladies and gentlemen, but i do not want to witness what seems to be a path already marked with the escalation of yet another bloody conflict as the only possible outcome. after the substantial failure of the french effort, called a marriage without spouses, it is time to give a decisive signal, first of all to the occupying power, which must take the first step. at least we put the two parties on the same level legally. the high representative formally requests all member states and the union to recognise palestine as a state. a far from neutral american position is looming on the horizon. will we have the courage to stand up for what is right, not for what is easy, even if we have to stand alone?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that with the knesset's approval of the regularization law, israel has crossed a line that it has never crossed before, in effect jeopardizing the two-state solution. in the face of this, the european union must emerge from a contradiction. the european union condemns this act and calls on the israeli authorities not to implement the law, but it is also preparing to open negotiations with israel in the association council. two actions which make clear all the ambiguities of european foreign policy. just because all this is happening in a completely new and turbulent geopolitical context, we don't need a foolish political realism. the european union must now, more than ever, make an effort to be consistent, to be consistent in the sense that it must remain morally and legally faithful to its founding principles and values, and that it must make any agreement with third countries conditional on respect for human rights and international law. it is asking what must be done, what the european parliament can do. we are not here to find the solution to the peace process, but we can do one thing for sure and it seems simple to me: the association council must be suspended and postponed until israel has finally clarified its intentions with regard to the colonized territories. this would be a clear sign to the international community of the political maturity of our european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must condemn once again the policy of the netanyahu government on settlements, which culminated in the knesset's approval of the law on the retroactive regularization of thousands of settlements. this is in defiance of un security council resolution 2334 and in defiance of international condemnation, including our own. the two-state solution has never been more at risk than it is today. we must therefore act as a union, together with the international community, in what can now be considered a process of annexation of the west bank, as some members of the israeli right wing have openly stated. we know that the great people of israel and the opposition forces are not netanyahu. we reiterate our absolute closeness and friendship to them and we call on them - and we will do so in person next week with a delegation from the european parliament - to continue to oppose and denounce the very serious situation which is damaging first and foremost to israel itself. we still want to believe that peace is possible, with respect for human rights and international law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already mentioned, we as a group would have preferred the original title of the debate, which was much broader, because we are convinced that attempting to reduce the conflict to a single aspect does not help, however important an aspect it may be, such as the settlements. as has been said, the situation is extremely delicate and fragile, but by taking certain positions we risk alienating the two sides. if we want to facilitate the peace dialogue, we must find a constructive and balanced approach that benefits both sides, with bilateral and direct negotiations without preconditions, which is the only way to achieve and maintain peace based on a two-state solution, as has been mentioned several times. as regards the law on regularization, i would remind you that any law of the knesset, if challenged, can be reviewed by the high court of justice and this will probably be challenged. i would remind you that the government of israel has recently shown that it is willing to abide by the decisions of the high court. so we have to move in agreement with both sides if we are to be of help, and focus our energies on constructive initiatives to really facilitate dialogue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the peace process with palestine is in danger of being permanently derailed by the latest legislative measures in israel. the regulation law, which aims to regularize the situation of some 4 000 israeli settlements in the west bank, and the green light for the construction of 2 500 new housing units for settlers have provoked international reactions and numerous calls for respect for international law, which many believe is being violated by what may be a full-blown annexation. israel should exercise restraint and refrain from taking measures which would escalate the conflict. the european union, on the other hand, has the important and decisive task of promoting the achievement of a lasting peace agreement. it is therefore necessary to continue to cooperate with the united nations, the united states and the arab partners in order to achieve these objectives. the european union must succeed in the difficult task of restoring a political horizon by encouraging the resumption of dialogue. only then will it be possible to restore a peaceful path and to block extremist positions.
in writing. the high representative announced the upcoming association council, which is intended to strengthen bilateral relations between the eu and israel. this coincided with israel's announcement that it would build 5,808 new homes in the west bank settlements and just as the knesset passed the so-called regularisation bill, which retroactively legalized the seizure and occupation of land owned by private palestinians. the door has thus been opened wide to further annexations and occupations, and in total disregard of international law, the free confiscation of palestinian land by israel has been guaranteed. meanwhile, demolitions of palestinian homes and structures (animal shelters, solar panels, water tanks, latrines) continue, as well as incidents due to illegal interference during the distribution of humanitarian aid in east jerusalem and area c of the west bank. i regret that i cannot get answers from the high representative, because there are questions that need urgent attention. why have you decided to take action to strengthen bilateral relations with a country which is in open violation of international law? why does he not call for the settlement policy to be stopped and for reparation for the damage caused by the destruction of eu-funded humanitarian aid?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report and say that this is an important year for albania. i am also particularly pleased that the council has given a positive opinion on the opening of negotiations, which we have been asking for a long time. parliament rightly acknowledges the important steps taken by tirana, in particular the fundamental reform of the judiciary, but recalls that consistent implementation and enforcement are as important as the adoption of reforms and this also applies to the other fundamental priorities. further efforts are needed in implementing public administration reform and fighting corruption, and ensuring independent and pluralistic media and minority rights. these, together with a healthy political dialogue between the majority and the opposition, are a necessary condition and prerequisite for a robust democracy. finally, it is important that the electoral commission finishes its work in time for the next elections, taking into account the osce/odihr recommendations. i hope that you will also consider allowing the many albanians abroad who maintain a close relationship with their country to vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, albania is continuing its march towards european integration. the progress made by the country is going in the right direction. i am pleased, also as chairman of the eu-albania friendship group, to see that the albanian government is keeping to its commitments. there's a lot of participation around this process. the accession of albania would be a great opportunity to cooperate, to invest in a country with great potential, at a time in european history when many of our companies are struggling to compete in the global market. the analysis of the various criteria for the accession process shows clear progress in the area of justice and in the fight against organised crime. the legislative framework on human rights is in line with european standards, particularly on freedom of expression. we know how sensitive the european union is to this issue. a request for accession, madam president, which shows how shortsighted the criticism of the multifarious populist and anti-european world is. those of us outside the european union know full well the advantages of being inside and participating as europeans in global challenges.
madam president, i have listened carefully to the whole debate. as a person who was responsible for justice reform and justice in the czech republic, i have to say that i am very pleased that one of those five priorities is justice and justice reform and that this is the number one topic in this debate. but i must also say responsibly that judicial reform is not just about changing laws, it is not just about the institutional independence of the judiciary and the possible rapid review of judges, it is a process that takes years, it is a very long process, and i would ask the commission and the commissioner to take this into account. to say that albania will not formally meet the conditions of the rule of law by introducing certain laws, but the rule of law must actually function. it will therefore be necessary to examine how these reforms will work in practice, whether they will really lead to an independent judiciary, to a corruption-free judiciary and to a judiciary that is really close to european standards in terms of its performance and decision-making.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, albania has made important progress in recent years, but it still has a long way to go in completing its reforms. i am thinking of the adoption and reform of the constitution, which opens the way to a profound and comprehensive reform of the judiciary, the implementation of which is essential for the fight against corruption and the consolidation of the rule of law. albania should swiftly complete the revision of the electoral code, taking into account the recommendations of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and strengthening the transparency of party funding and the integrity of electoral processes. unfortunately, corruption remains high and widespread in many sectors and continues to be a serious problem in albania, eroding citizens' trust in public institutions. other key challenges remain, such as the dismantling of organised crime networks and the need to strengthen the protection of human and minority rights, but albania is on track to join the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr flechenstein's report, which i very much appreciate for its efforts, presents very well the current situation in the country and i agree with almost everything he says about the fight against corruption, organised crime, the necessary administrative and economic reforms, media freedom and the protection of minorities. the highest priority is certainly the actual implementation rather than the reform of the judicial sector to overcome the great, huge challenges in terms of legality that still cross albania. a country which has always been a transit area between east and west and for this very reason i see a great opportunity to develop, by joining this country, albania and the other countries of the mediterranean basin, an area of cooperation and peace. the road to accession is still long, but it must be a road of progress and real efforts, not just on paper. it must be an objective to be achieved by action, and if that is the case, we will support it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, bosnia-herzegovina's application for membership of the european union shows that the european project is still strong, attractive and capable of giving the states an impetus to embark on radical reform processes. bosnia and herzegovina has sought to restructure itself to become a fully inclusive, functional and rule-of-law state, guaranteeing equality and democratic representation of all peoples. the foundations of the rule of law have always been a non-negotiable element in european political culture. for this reason, bosnia and herzegovina will not be a candidate with good prospects for membership as long as reform efforts are hampered by ethnic and political divisions caused by disruptive tendencies that impede normal democratic development. i hope that the country will continue with conviction the long process of rapprochement with the european union and that it will do so with a renewed affirmation of the values of which the union is the bearer.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i thank mr balz for his answer. you said that the countries do not comply with the commission's instructions. i wanted to know what the commission's views were on the indications it gives on the mip, that is to say the one concerning the process of economic imbalances within the euro area, as regards the surplus in the trade balance on current account by germany. we know that there is a rule that says that over 6%, these current parts create large imbalances and therefore you should act to end this imbalance. i wanted to know what you thought and why germany repeatedly does not follow these recommendations. i wanted your opinion on that, thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have heard, the reports which have been presented on the semester highlight problems of different size and character, but which also need to be put in a proper and logical sequence because of their size. the first concerns overall growth, which is largely inadequate. to make it grow, we need a public and private investment plan, which we do not yet have. the juncker plan has shown all its limitations and its ineffectiveness. within this growth there are grey areas, but also uniformity, there are territories in which targeted interventions must be aimed at, starting with infrastructure to give those territories the capacity to attract investment and capital. then there is employment, unfair employment, which is also largely inadequate, with an obvious problem affecting women on the one hand and young people on the other. the youth guarantee does not work, it is not a tool to increase youth employment, it is simply a form of protection for those who are unemployed and, through training, are at least protected from the disadvantages they encounter. finally, the governance of the internal market has shown its flaws in recent months. we need better enforcement of eu legislation to ensure that the territories as a whole really represent a single market and as such are able to give a perspective to the people who live in those lands.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the annual growth report for 2017 continues to paint a very bleak picture in terms of its social and employment aspects. in particular, apart from the continuing weakness of growth, employment levels, the weakening of wages and the growing poverty in employment are a long-standing problem. in this context, an accelerated review of the community's social policies, as outlined in the report this parliament adopted just last month on the social rights pillar, is essential. the only real structural reform we urgently need is the creation of a real social europe. with just a few months to go until the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome and just hours before the vote in the house on important reports on the future of the union, we must achieve the objective of a fairer europe as a top priority, by recovering the spirit of the founding fathers and working together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis began in 2008, but the european union is still in a period of stagnation with a slow economic recovery. the slogan 'strengthening recovery and promoting convergence' does not fit well with those parts of europe, and many of them do, which are suffering the social consequences of a prolonged period of high unemployment. the european semester, which aims to coordinate the budgetary policies of the member states, has as one of its objectives the equity and social protection of the most vulnerable groups. but these obligations seem to be relegated to the background. recent studies by the oecd and the international monetary fund highlight that social inequalities in europe are among the causes of the lack of economic recovery. we cannot talk about growth without ensuring investment in social and support infrastructure to help those who have been hit hardest by the economic crisis. until social rights are put before economic freedoms, we will not adequately protect the rights of all european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group has almost always followed the discussions on the semester and on this discussion - i must be honest - we have even taken a step backwards, because everything concerning the question of imbalances, as the greek colleague who spoke before me pointed out, is not taken into account at all. we have a clear imbalance on the german side and despite what draghi and merkel say, i do not think that the germans started innovating in 1999. i can show you the graph: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is now swallowing up and disintegrating the internal market of the european union and the euro area and also externally whether this imbalance is highlighted by various reports of the monetary fund or otherwise. so we must highlight these problems, otherwise what you want to defend, namely the single currency, is indefensible and must therefore be abandoned before a country unilaterally unplugs.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. thank you, ramon, for accepting my request. on the question of non-performing loans, i wanted to know, since you mentioned italy, whether the loans that were included in those assessments, which were not made in germany, as regards the banks in the german länder, what do you think, since you attack italy by saying that we have not solved the problem of non-performing loans, while in germany an entire banking system such as that of the länder is outside the single supervision. i think there are also big risk assessments to be made on these banks.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my analysis of the banking union is very critical because unfortunately it has created more stability instead of actually addressing the causes of the systemic banking crises. we should have made a real banking separation between investment banks and banks that do credit business. this has not been done and an alternative solution has been found which, however, creates conflicts of interest. now we see the first pillar of supervision, where there's credit risk put under a magnifying glass, whereas tier three assets and all that is financial risk, derivatives and whatnot, where french banks and german banks are full, are not taken into account. it is a coincidence that german and french banks are now making bids for italian banks, which are under pressure from the bad loans they have been able to absorb with large public subsidies in recent years. so i do not accept the morality of the german and french members of parliament and others who have spent hundreds of billions to bail out their banks and very likely to cover up their policy favors to businessmen and others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high level of non-performing loans is a cause for concern. the european union must push for the creation of a bad bank which is objectively the only way out of the eurozone's more than one trillion euro of bad loans, allowing banks to sell bad loans at their real economic value. a strong response is needed to the continued instability of the banking environment in europe. the international monetary fund calls for profound changes in both the economic models of banks and the structure of the system in order to ensure a sound banking system at european level. the crisis has highlighted shortcomings in the overall architecture of the single currency. i think it is time to finalise the creation of a european deposit insurance scheme, which could be the third pillar of the banking union and go alongside deposit guarantee schemes, thus ensuring a higher level of asset protection against the emergence of default risks for european credit institutions.
i would suggest to the house that we begin in five minutes because, because of the demonstrations around parliament, many members are still coming in because the cars could not get out of the garage. i therefore propose that the sitting be resumed in five minutes to allow as many members as possible to enter parliament. i apologise to commissioner malmström and thank you for your understanding of your colleagues. we'll resume the session in five minutes. (the sitting was suspended at 9.05 a.m. and resumed at 9.15 a.m.)
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the recommendation of artis pabriks, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part (10975/2016 - c8-0438/2016 - 2016/0205(nle) (a8-0009/2017), the statement by the commission on the conclusion of the eu-canada ceta (2017/2525(rsp), and the recommendation by charles tannock, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the strategic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and canada, of the other part (14765/2016 - c508/2016 - 2016/0378/2013 ((a28/2017)).
as you know, the rules are always the same for everyone. if i am flexible in certain debates with some members, i am flexible with others. it always has been and it will be today. i would certainly ask you not to abuse the flexibility.
today is a particularly sensitive debate. everyone will have the opportunity to express their ideas and positions. so i ask you to respect those who speak on both sides of the debate and who have different views from yours. it is not for the president to decide what parliament's position should be, it is for the sovereign house, today during the vote, to decide what parliament's position should be. i would like to make a few comments on behalf of the groups. the first is that of mr weber for the european people's party.
i shall not be giving a 'blue card' to the speakers of the groups, because, as i said, this is a sensitive debate and i would ask everyone to respect the views of others. each group will be free to express its own ideas and positions. this is democracy, and so i ask you to respect your colleagues, even if they express different views from yours.
i have heard some triumphalist tones which i do not share. and i have heard, lastly, provocations by mr weber, which are not respectful of the free, frank and open debate that has taken place in the socialist and democratic group. my group asks for respect. we're not a barracks and we never will be. i should like to say at once that for us socialists and democrats ceta is not a model, but only the beginning of a change in european trade policy. some people feel that what is happening in the world should not affect our thinking, that we can go on living our lives by sticking our heads in the sand. we're not one of them. trump is not obama, and we need to think about what's happening. trump has taken advantage of a naive view of globalization. trade agreements are designed only for the interests of big business. our electorate is revolting against this vision of globalization. we support ceta as part of a growing awareness of the need for a new trade policy. we have to acknowledge that in recent months we have worked to improve ceta and that is also why we have a better agreement today than in the past. we have overcome isds, which, if left unchanged, would have been the trojan horse with which the multinationals would have been able to infest our legal systems. in its place now there is a mechanism with an appeal, with judges above any conflict of interest, and it is also thanks to our work as socialists that public services will not be affected, as well as the rights of workers. these improvements have been made possible partly by the work of the commissioner and, above all, by a partner, canada, with whom we share common values and hopes, a country with which we share the ambition of building a new, more democratic multilateral system, a positive globalisation different from the one pursued so far. i thank prime minister trudeau, who we know is with us in this battle against the viruses of populism and isolationism. this agreement is a start for us, but we need a broader and clearer progressive agenda for international trade, on the basis of which we will evaluate future agreements, starting with the one between the european union and japan. we will not vote again unless there is a new progressive agenda on trade policy and we will never again tolerate dispute settlement instruments such as isds. we want more transparency in the negotiations and we want adherence to the most advanced standards on workers' rights to become the norm. in short, our support is not a vote to preserve, but a vote to change. it is a way of listening to the concerns of our citizens. we want to change this globalization, we don't want to suffer it.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ceta is not a free trade agreement, it is a hidden institutional reform, conceived in secret by unelected technocrats and disguised as an international treaty. for three years the five star movement has tried to warn you, but to no avail. it is no use telling you that ceta will bring a ridiculous growth of 0.01% per annum, that it will put 200 000 europeans out of work, that it will lead to a contraction of real wages between 300 and 1 300 euros. it is no use reminding you that imports of wheat, meat or maize will increase by a whopping three, four, seven times, or that a canadian farm is twenty times larger than a european one, with the goodwill of our small farmers. commissioner, after today's vote, ceta will enter the lives of our citizens. europeans will find it at the table. this is a colossal fraud, given that in canada 81% of maize and 80% of wheat are gmos, the meat contains ractopamine and other substances currently banned in europe, but which will be very easy to make legal in the future thanks to ceta. if ceta officially promises not to allow gmos in, in reality they will all go through the back door, because the treaty incorporates the same ruse that has already been successfully used by american corporations to attack the european block on hormone-laden meat, namely the very dangerous world trade organisation health standards. in addition, water, health and services which are now public will be subjected to a wave of privatisation and irreversible liberalisation and no one will be able to oppose the establishment of a supranational tribunal with the power to condemn states which dare to put the cart before the horse of corporations and their profits. a shameful private justice that will be accessed by three quarters of american companies operating in europe, triangulating lawsuits through their subsidiaries in canada. but above all, ceta is a blank check. colleagues, you may think you know what you're about to sign but you don't. ceta creates a technocratic, unelected body which can interpret the protocols of the treaty as it pleases, and it is not a matter of a few pages but of 75 per cent of the 1 500 pages which make up the treaty, some of which have been deliberately left blank. all this without any, i repeat, no, democratic control. so, colleagues, i say to you once again: ceta is not a treaty, it is not an agreement, but it is a silent coup d'état, it is institutional reform disguised as a treaty and we have to stop it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not speaking to the useless members of the european commission who are deaf, but to the italian and european citizens who are following us outside this building. today you are complicit in yet another gift to corporations and finance. we shall have to put about 200 000 workers back to work in europe: the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european economy. today you choose to bring to our children's tables meat treated with hormones and gmo wheat, perhaps treated with pesticides banned in europe, after the rice of burma, the oil of tunisia, the tomatoes and oranges of morocco, you, in the name of the benefit of a few, fill the tables with the crap of an equally few, and moreover allow the arrival in europe of all the fake made in italy, the fake parma ham, the fake parmigiano reggiano, the fake mozzarella. give your children that shit! we would like everyone to be able to eat what the land and the sea and the good lord have given us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. the usual people will always get it back, and you will always get it back. but i tell you that brexit, trump and the elections in holland, france, germany, italy and austria are proving that people are waking up. so hurry up and give your last presents to your little friends, because the people are coming for you. get ready to pack your bags and go to either canada or china, which are waiting for you with open arms. (the rapporteur refuses to answer a question on the 'blue card' by hilde vautmans (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it would be a good joke if it were not a tragedy. it would be a good joke to say that ceta is the progressive answer to trump's protectionism and right-wing populism. you are offering an alternative to trump's protectionism, another form of protectionism. protect the right to profit, establish an unequal right that protects corporations, protects profit, protects investments and protects corporations before people. we too have a form of protectionism. we want to protect jobs, the environment, food safety and the citizens of europe. we want to protect democracy. you say that ceta will create jobs. it is a pity that studies have shown that 230 000 jobs will be lost, 200 000 of them in europe alone. trudeau the environmentalist who gave the green light to the keystone pipeline in the united states, applauding the notorious trump. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to say one last thing: the socialists had announced the end of the grand coalition. today they show us that the grand coalition continues. we remain in coalition with the citizens ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must say in a responsible and serious way that we are discussing today a good free trade agreement and we are also discussing at last a european trade policy perspective, a europe that exists, a europe that is a model, a point of reference, that makes it possible to show that we must be able to overcome challenges if we prepare ourselves for them. i am referring to the fact that this free trade offers an opportunity to break the deadlock in the italian, french, spanish and european markets, which are in the most complete stalemate. the international monetary fund says that 90 percent can be achieved as development outside europe's borders. i think that the main purpose of this in-depth study is to understand how and in what way the process of internationalisation of our small and mediumsized enterprises, with the right size, with appropriate access to credit and with the possibility of management, can be carried out in order to meet and achieve these objectives. the time available is short and we, of course, as the italian delegation, support this agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that free trade agreements should really be put at the service of broader objectives such as employment, human rights, cohesion and sustainable development. i wonder if we can say that ceta meets these different objectives and i must confess that i have great difficulty in answering this question in the affirmative. second consideration: there seems to be a prevailing opinion in this parliament that this agreement can become a model for the next generation of agreements. i think differently and i do not think that ceta can be the beginning of a new course. finally, i would remind you, commissioner, that the risks of a return to protectionism and trade wars are not to be combated by a critical promotion of liberalization and deregulation of trade and investment, as you imagine, but by radically changing the approach so far followed, and that is what we really need to do with the vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ceta is contrary to principles and standards which i believe are absolutely non-negotiable, from the approach to food safety to measures on endocrine disruptors, from commitments to achieve climate and energy objectives to maximum levels for pesticide residues, from the arbitration mechanism to the spaces for private intervention in public services, from the risk of entry of gmo products to the protection of quality production. in europe we have 1 300 food products with geographical indications, 2 800 wines and 330 spirits. of these, ceta will protect only 173. many designations of origin, which we are accustomed to consider as indicative of quality products, with strong links to the territory, will not be protected overseas. it is a pity that ceta has not marked a break in continuity and that europe has not steered the negotiations towards greater protection of consumer rights, the precautionary principle and environmental clauses. i shall vote against because ceta does not bring any benefits to the citizens of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the carnivals are over, but some masks remain. the masks of hypocrisy of those who sell ceta as a simple and trivial agreement with canada, based on shared principles and values, a cornerstone of sustainable trade. take off your mask and tell the truth. the truth about the fake abolition of isds, the conflicts of interest in arbitration courts, our constitutional rights trampled on in favor of corporations. the truth about the wild privatizations and liberalizations of water, sanitation and public services. the truth about the 230 000 european workers you have sold for 30 pence, employment and dignity. we, the spokesmen of the five star movement, have chosen a side: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. no to the trojan horse and ttip, no to ceta!
i have never voted as vice-president and i will never vote when i preside over the sitting. it is my personal choice, i could do that, but the president's position must be the parliament's position.
the agenda shall be closed at the end of the voting. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament, held on a leash by the multinationals, has just approved ceta. i'm very happy for you. you have carried out the first silent coup d'état in history. you have condemned the citizens of europe, eroded sovereignty and stabbed democracy in the heart. to get into parliament this morning we all went through a demonstration of hundreds of people lying down in front of the front doors. this was the voice of the people, and they are not the first to oppose ceta. 150 000 people wrote to the commission against the evil isds clauses, 2 137 regions and municipalities declared themselves free from ceta and over three and a half million europeans signed the petition against this treaty, the largest ever petition to the european union. my colleagues, you have ignored them and, more than voting for a treaty, you have betrayed a trust. your masters will be proud of you and your work. but i, frankly, am ashamed of all of you.
mr president, we, the five star movement, have always been very critical of ets as we believe that the system simply does not work. considering that we had to play this game again, we played it hard, supporting all the amendments to increase the ambition of the system as much as possible, such as ‘rebasing’, meaning adjusting the starting level to actual emissions in order to get rid of the huge surplus pollution permits and adopting the mechanism to include importers of cement and clinker. we do not believe that the inclusion of the maritime sector in the ets would be a good deal for the environment. shipping is a sector that has a big margin of improvement in terms of reducing its emissions by pushing the transition to less carbon fossil fuels in a stronger manner, rather than starting a market-based approach again. nevertheless, the amendments have been rejected, and therefore we voted against the report. i hope the eu will realise soon that trying to fix the ets again will not bring any real reduction in emissions and any real investment in clean production. a new and alternative solution could finally be debated and hopefully adopted and implemented. the sooner this happens, the better for the climate.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs monika hohlmeier, and all the shadow rapporteurs for the commitment and the constructive spirit they have shown at the various stages of the interinstitutional negotiations which have led to the text we are about to vote on. the directive on combating terrorism is an important legislative document by which europe is laying down the common basis for harmonizing the national legislation of the member states, some of which have unfortunately also recently experienced dramatic terrorist attacks. i think that parliament has made a good contribution to the text by introducing, in the balance between security and respect for rights, measures of particular significance for the fight against terrorism, including the obligation to exchange information, with a view to increased cooperation and coordination between judicial police and intelligence services. in fact, too often in this house we have been discussing the fact that a timely exchange of information might have prevented tragic attacks. the directive also gives the member states certain regulatory instruments to combat the financing of terrorism and to break the growing relationship of collaboration between criminal groups and terrorist groups. i am thinking of the confiscation or the punishability of certain offences linked to terrorist activity, such as the production of false documents or the trafficking in cultural property. however, we should still work towards the swift adoption of additional measures to combat terrorist financing, such as the revision of the anti-money laundering directive. last but not least, i would like to mention the provisions on the protection and support of victims of terrorism, and i am pleased with the agreement reached, which places the responsibility for medical and psychological assistance and legal support on the member states in respect of those who have suffered an attack aimed at destabilising a state or a government.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the terrorism we are fighting today is operating in new ways, with new methods of communication and new methods of financing. it is an internal threat, manifested by individual actors or even groups that move easily across the borders of the member states. to think that we can defeat it with national policies alone is illusory. in order to provide a european response to a transnational phenomenon and an imminent danger, we tried to reconcile the need to strengthen measures to combat terrorism with the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. on the one hand, we have therefore called for greater cooperation between the member states, convinced that a better exchange of information and mandatory cooperation between the judicial authorities represent an effective measure to counter the activity of terrorist groups. on the other hand, as the five star movement we have tabled amendments aimed at better defining the types of crime, keeping, for example, the basic principle of materiality and respecting the latin phrase cogitationis poenam nemo patitur. we have defended freedom of expression on the internet and social media, demanding that any repressive intervention on the internet should be subject to judicial review. the balance between freedom and the security of perpetual debate is therefore fundamental to the rule of law. the fight against terrorism and the protection of security in general must not be used as a pretext for restricting or, even worse, suppressing fundamental rights, but must always be used to protect individual rights and freedoms. as the report on the fight against organised crime, for which i was rapporteur, also points out, the european legal framework must be supplemented by a global approach, thus also addressing the close and worrying interconnection between terrorism and organised crime, which often work together and merge to gain mutual benefits, often of an economic nature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is a hot-water bottle, it speaks of terrorism and does not dare to call it by its name: terrorism. islamist terrorism is on the rise! what courage is that? you don't even have that! some say that we should not talk about borders and attack my colleague, who has spoken very well about it, and rightly so. it is true, they come from the suburbs, but then they escape to italy from germany or after the bataclan, as quiet as quiet tourists who no one controls since there are no longer borders. lebreton is right then! free movement for all, including those who make propaganda, like the muslim brotherhood, who even infiltrate governments and act as advisors to our governments. you want free movement for everyone, but not for the hunters. the weapons of hunters are very dangerous, not the weapons of lone wolves, not the weapons of jihadists. there are no concrete measures against jihadists. how do you look for them? there is no proposal for specialised sections of the judiciary which are in direct contact with the police and services to make effective judgments. let me conclude, mr president, by saying that we must have the courage to take serious action. let us remember the victims, who you do not think of, who suffer today in hospitals and rehabilitation centres. no one helps them. the italian victims of nice, abandoned by europe and italy, are a disgrace!
mr president, i am sorry, but we are discussing human rights and a very good directive to protect them. is it possible that you do not block a speaker who is speaking in continuous violation of human rights? at least say a word!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to start differently, but i must make one point, because some of my colleagues wanted to turn this directive, which, as mrs hohlmeier has rightly said, is a directive against terrorism, into a directive against the muslim community. it's the exact opposite. we must instead work with the muslim community and benefit from integration, we must not isolate the muslim community. so when i hear about claims that talk about islamist terrorism, i wonder what it means. does this mean that there is islamist terrorism and then there are other forms of terrorist acts of the b and a series? this is a very serious matter, a very serious principle. so the directive is a good thing, the exchange of information is a good thing, because it not only harmonizes and serves precisely to coordinate within the member states, but because the exchange of preparatory information is fundamental because unfortunately the methods of terrorist acts are changing. once the bus that crashes in berlin, and once again what happened at the airports. so, very well the new types of crime, which are not invented by parliament, but which are linked to the new forms of criminal acts on the internet. i'm finished, mr president. the directive is excellent, we must vote on it.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the schengen borders code should be aimed at facilitating the identification of those who represent a threat to public policy and internal security in the european union. one of the most difficult to identify is the flow of foreign fighters. to this end, at the external borders of the european union, all persons, including european citizens, will be subject to systematic checks by means of verifications of documentary and biometric information contained in the relevant existing databases. only where systematic checks have a disproportionate impact on the flow of travellers' traffic will the member states concerned be able to carry them out in a targeted manner, provided that a risk assessment demonstrates that such derogation does not harm the internal security of the union. we wondered whether it would not be more effective to provide for targeted checks, as a rule and not as an exception, on signals shared between states as a result of intelligence activities, but unfortunately the opposite view prevailed in the committee. a focus point is the need to improve the dialogue between databases and the interconnectivity between them and the infrastructures responsible for managing the external borders, in full respect of data protection and fundamental rights rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, checks at the external borders of the union remain one of the main measures to safeguard the area without internal border controls. these are checks carried out in the interests of all the member states, to prevent any threat, even if, as we saw in the recent attacks in paris and brussels, the threat comes from citizens of the union. thanks to the new technologies available and the national and european databases at their disposal, border guards at the union's external borders will be able to carry out systematic and targeted checks on all european citizens. however, we still regard respect for the law as the principle of priority under this regulation. the verification of the identity and validity of the travel document should always be carried out in full compliance with union law as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, in particular the rights to respect for private life, to data protection and to freedom of movement and residence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an objective fact that europe is in the eye of the storm because of the terrorist threat. the rapporteur, mrs macovei, proposes that exit checks at the union's external borders be systematised by means of databases and biometric devices. i believe that this hypothesis should be assessed in the overall framework of the reorganization of european defence systems, coordinating it with other actions already undertaken and planned. i think it is necessary to clarify the mechanism for modulating the controls on the intensity of outbound traffic which, in addition to not hindering the fluidity of travel, must also ensure equal treatment between citizens. it is essential that europe respects the principle of proportionality and that any action to improve safety does not, as is often the case, lead to unjustified restrictions on personal freedoms. finally, the appropriateness of exit controls should be assessed in the light of concrete data, intelligence and specific research and not by relying on the fears of citizens or the still painful memory of the attacks in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has repeatedly reaffirmed its commitment to improving the exchange of information in order to meet the current security challenges facing the european union. however, the legal framework currently in force for such exchange between designated authorities, including the exchange of information on terrorist offences, is still largely subject to instruments dating back to the lisbon treaty. the slowness with which the union is working on prevention is unacceptable, especially at a time in history when european citizens are more aware of their need for security. i think it is essential that the commission acts decisively by launching an infringement procedure against member states which are reluctant to share information which they are obliged to do under the current legal framework, and in the meantime put forward an ambitious proposal for a directive to ensure a consistent and more stringent legal framework for the exchange of law enforcement information and intelligence at union level.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the great advances in robotics and the possibility of artificial intelligence surpassing human intelligence require ethical and moral considerations from which we cannot escape. ethical issues are not only about human-machine interaction, but also about ontological problems related to personal identity, with reference to bionic interventions aimed at recovering or enhancing the sensory-motor and cognitive abilities of human beings, and the theme of responsibility, which presents itself in all its drama, especially with reference to drones for military use. who is responsible for the human rights violations committed through their use? and then there is the issue of the ability to make choices in extreme situations, where the ethical component is a determining element of the choice. how would a driverless car behave if it had to choose, in the event of a sudden derailment, between the safety of the passenger in the car and that of a group of people at the side of a road? the report on robotics addresses these issues, and outlines a possible path that deserves further exploration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ever since we first lit the fire, made the first arrow and developed agricultural techniques, technology has been one of the engines, perhaps the most powerful, of change. billions of people have devices like this in their pockets that are so ubiquitous, so fast, so connected, that they were unimaginable just a few years ago. yet there is still much to be done in ict, despite the fact that the world wide web was launched more than 20 years ago. to name a few of the hot topics here, geoblocking, online privacy, accountability and intellectual property. as legislators we should detect changes in advance and define regulatory frameworks quickly so that they do not end up in the votes of the old and inadequate. so it is our responsibility to intervene before the future we see today quickly becomes a present without rules. artificial intelligence is already capable of self-learning, and the resulting evolution of cyber-physical systems will soon generate enormous social, productive, economic and cultural changes, both positive and negative. among the negatives, we are faced with unprecedentedly rapid technological unemployment. the bank of england estimates that one in two jobs in britain will disappear by 2020. by the same year, according to the world economic forum, 7 million jobs will be lost in the 15 most industrialized economies of the world of work, replaced by only 2 million new jobs. we know very well how work gives citizens the ability to spend and the tax revenue that supports the public welfare and health system. added to this is the increasing concentration of global wealth. according to forbes, in 2010, 388 people owned the wealth of 50% of humanity, in 2014 it became 85, in 2016 it was 62, to reach 8 people, according to the data cited in davos a few weeks ago. we cannot avoid dealing with these issues, which are so large and interrelated. we will strongly support this resolution where it deals with the sustainability of our tax and social security systems, by considering the introduction of a universal basic income. the delvaux report is the most lucid and far-sighted text i have read and with which i have had the honour of working in these two years in the european parliament. i hope it will not be distorted in the vote tomorrow.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in our debate we are discussing important and decisive assessments and reflections on people's lives, the economy and work, within an ethical and moral framework which also calls us to our responsibilities as decision-makers. while welcoming the introduction of robotics in health and care systems, rehabilitation and care for the frail and those with limited personal autonomy, and convinced that the use of new technologies, especially in the health sector, will improve the performance of the system, with a clear and significant impact on the costs of the public system, we draw attention to the indispensable value of the doctor-patient, operator-patient relationship as an additional element of guarantee, convinced that the man-machine binomial represents an extraordinary opportunity to improve the quality of life and the well-being of people. finally, the widespread use of intelligent machines will unfortunately lead to the decimation of low-skilled workers and the need to build new ones with more refined skills. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i personally welcome the fact that we are discussing a report here today on the civil law aspects of robotics. i think that going forward, we're really going to have to adjust some of the relationships, like the question of the liability of autonomous robots for the damage that they do, we're going to have to address the question of whether there's an insurance system for the damage that these machines can do. on the other hand, i find the report too broad. there's a whole bunch of stuff that i don't think is relevant to this topic. i think that issues that are social in nature, like the issue of introducing a universal basic income, are things that are not related to the civil-law aspects of robots, and maybe that brings up a certain problem for me, whether to support the report without further questions. i also want to say that i have a problem with the aforementioned electronic personality status. in short, european law, which derives from roman law, has for two thousand years distinguished between a natural person and a legal person. it's obvious, it's given, it's the foundation of our civilization. and to create now some other form of person seems to me to be an absolute and fundamental revolutionary intervention in the european conception of civil law and without any further extensive debate i really consider it a thing with which i would not want to juggle too much here, i would not want to try too much and too much with such a lightness to write this report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, technology should never be feared. it has enabled the world to evolve. of course, technology has historically reduced the number of jobs and often profoundly changed the way work is done. but it is up to politics to use the wealth that technology creates to make up for these gaps. it is our job to govern and manage the process, it is not automatic. we must therefore do very specific things, which concern economic policy, training, research, but we must not hinder or counteract technology. that would be wrong and regressive. i would add that the legal and ethical dimension is about people and not machines. it is difficult to identify the responsibilities of machines, but this should not lead us to confuse the two roles. i believe that ethics is about humans. so it is the maker of the machines who must be subject to a criterion of ethical responsibility, not the machine, that would be misleading.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the development of robotics and artificial intelligence will certainly contribute in the near future to a considerable improvement in our quality of life in various sectors such as medical care, transport and industrial production. the likely widespread use of these devices, however, requires us as legislators to define a legal framework that regulates their implications and ethical and legal implications without hindering their development and taking into account the fact that technology is evolving very rapidly. many of the proposals in the report are entirely acceptable. however, i would like to focus on the relationship between robots and children. in fact, even today, the interaction of children with technology, such as smartphones, computers and video games, sometimes leads to addictions that could be exacerbated by devices equipped with advanced artificial intelligence. the future legal framework will therefore have to take account of the possible risks arising from an emotional attachment between robots and children such as dependence, isolation, social marginalisation, and also consider the provision of educational processes aimed at providing young people with a critical thinking capacity towards robots.
in writing. in my december 2014 question 'internet and universal services', i assumed that ict services are considered as core public services in the digital agenda. in two years, the growing need to ensure data privacy and maximum inclusiveness, speed in network installation, suitability of backup plans and respect for the environment on the internet has made this definition more and more relevant. i am pleased with the response i received from commissioner oettinger in february 2015 as the commission reiterates its commitment to the objectives of the digital agenda for europe and that broadband is essential for new online services to reach a critical mass. however, recent social, economic and technological developments require the eu institutions to review the content of the universal service at eu level in order to protect services accessible to the public. the cloud is a universal service for me and as such it must be guaranteed. it is no coincidence that creating the best possible environment with high quality data, data analytics and secure services is increasingly making our smes more competitive.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, having worked on this dossier on behalf of the committee on budgets, i would like to stress in particular the scale and financial implications of the evaluation of the structural and investment funds. the criticisms are well known. there are often difficulties in the designation of the managing authority and, for some european regions, absorption rates remain very low, often shamefully low. in addition, the high risk of a backlog of payment claims for heading 1b of our budget risks making financial implementation very difficult, as envisaged in our multiannual financial framework, and it is therefore necessary for the three institutions to work together to define the closure of the 2016-2020 period in the best possible way. this programming also saw a marked increase in financial instruments. the commission and parliament must be vigilant in this respect too, always remembering the principle of budgetary unity and democratic control of expenditure on public money. mr president, i would like to conclude by reminding you that the revision of the regulations on the structural funds was intended to be an opportunity to improve the efficiency of the rules and not an attempt to change for the worse the philosophy which underlies our great regional policy.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr van nistelrooij's report contains a comprehensive analysis of the current state of cohesion policy and the challenges that lie ahead for the post-2020 negotiations. there are several points in common, such as the clear criticism of the efsi, the lack of data on the effects and results produced by financial instruments, or the weak link between them and the general objectives of the european union. the parties also welcomed the need to strengthen administrative capacity and the quality of spending. i welcome the acceptance of an amendment of ours which stresses that in future we need to absorb the available funds more rapidly but with a more balanced progression of expenditure during the programming cycle. this is also to avoid the frequent use of retrospective or coherent projects, often aimed at avoiding automatic disengagement at the end of the programming period. however, there are two very critical issues, namely the close link between cohesion policy and the european semester and the mention of structural reforms, with possible amendments to member states' operational programmes after 2020. this is also relevant because the structural reform support programme will take eur 142 million from cohesion policy and allocate it to structural reforms. in relation to the delays in cohesion policy, the late conclusion of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the late adoption of the european structural and investment funds regulations are unfortunately well known, which in turn slowed down the process of implementing the partnership agreements and the operational programmes. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. it must be admitted, however, that many delays are the result of member states and regions. they need to strengthen their administrative capacity and demonstrate the real usefulness of the projects they implement. here again we find the negative aspect of structural reforms and their specific burden on the citizens. not to mention there are some open questions that need urgent answers. who is responsible for delays in the designation of managing, certifying and audit authorities, which lead to delays in the submission of payment applications? who is responsible for the dizzying acceleration of payments in 2016 almost nine years after the start of the programming? is it only useful to avoid disengagement? we are in favour of a strong and severe criticism of absurd rules such as the stability pact and structural reforms, but we are in favour of this because we want a europe of citizens and solidarity. we shall also be discussing the natural disasters tomorrow, and we shall see who is really on the side of the people and the values of europe, not just in words.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, cohesion policy is in a state of flux, caught in a debate between the evaluation of the innovations introduced by the latest reform and the need for revision and change. but it is an essential policy, because in europe there are still huge differences in development between different regions. the future of regional policy should be considered with greater consideration of the fact that cohesion policy is both the victim and the best ally of the territories, which, with their specific characteristics, determine its implementation. giving due weight to projects implemented through the structural funds is important because it brings citizens closer to european policies and is an incentive for other administrations through the exchange of good practice. but we need to move in two directions: flexibility and simplification. we cannot simply follow the logic of respecting the zero-point rule. for example, instead of thinking of suspending payments to budget deficit spain and portugal, cohesion policy should be suspended to those countries which do not show solidarity and refuse to relocate migrants.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the regi committee has put this question because it is extremely concerned about the delays in the implementation of the operational plans under the esi funds, because this delay is reflected in the failure to reduce regional disparities which can contribute to undermining the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the european union which is the basis of cohesion policy itself. the delay in the designation of the managing authorities has resulted in delays in interim payments which, as at 30 november 2016, were well below the initially planned level. the esi funds are designed to reduce regional disparities, to generate smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, also aimed at creating quality jobs in our territories and improving the quality of life of our citizens. however, our concern goes further and includes the search for the causes. the local and national capacities to implement effective and timely policies appear to differ. the main factors which have led to this disparity are primarily of a purely regional nature: the availability of human capital, the innovative entrepreneurial capacity, the quality of local institutions. these are supplemented by macroeconomic factors at national level - the state of public finances, tax systems, labour costs - which are added to those of a supranational nature such as budgetary rules. commissioner, our concern also concerns the future of cohesion policy in a more general way. any debate on the future of cohesion policy will have to take account of certain key points. it is of paramount importance that the new cohesion policy is maintained, defended and innovated, making it more immediate, more effective and simpler in its procedures in the overall architecture. that is why, madam commissioner, we are asking you, and therefore the commission, to present a plan to speed up cohesion policies, simpler and clearer rules to allow for a faster and more effective implementation of operational plans, a results-oriented approach to really respond to the needs of the territories and the people.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for the opportunity to address them today and to exchange views on aviation matters. i welcome your own-initiative report, which provides a comprehensive view of the aviation sector. i would like to thank mr telička and mr christensen for their hard work, as well as the other committees involved. aviation clearly matters to our economy and citizens. we are talking about more than two million direct jobs and a direct contribution of eur 110 billion to the eu economy. eu aviation today represents 26% of the world market. it therefore deserves all our attention. it is clear that we have our work cut out – all actors, both at national and european level – so allow me to turn to the key points raised in your report. first, regarding the internal market, i fully support swift progress on the blocked aviation files. each year around eur 5 billion are wasted because we have not been making progress with the single european sky. i fully agree with your call for completing the eu single market for aviation. in this regard, the commission will launch this year a feasibility study for the creation of a single european upper airspace to see how that could contribute concretely to the efficiency of our skies. on foreign investment, the commission welcomes your continued support and interest in the eu-level comprehensive aviation agreements. in line with our commitments, we will keep you fully informed at all stages of the negotiations. related to the competitiveness of the eu aviation sector, i take note of the emphasis you put on attracting foreign investment. this is closely linked to the importance of having fair competition. we are currently working on new measures aimed to promote or safeguard regional and overall connectivity in europe, as announced in the aviation strategy. these measures are expected in the spring and should include the following: first, new guidelines on ownership and control rules to bring clarity and facilitate their application; second, new guidelines on public service obligation; third, a proposal to replace regulation no 868/2004 on unfair practices with more effective instruments, our objective being to present a credible instrument that will allow us to act effectively when eu air carriers are injured because of the discriminatory practices originating from third countries; and last, but not least, guidelines for atm service continuity. on the third topic, standards, let me first say a few words on safety. i am pleased to note your support for our proposal on the revision of the aviation safety basic regulation and in particular that easa should be equipped with sufficient resources and staff. i look forward to a trialogue on this file, which should have started this monday, and i sincerely hope that a new date will be agreed without further delay. a lot of progress has been made so far and i am confident that we will conclude this file under the maltese presidency. on the environment issue, following icao’s landmark agreement, we are now focused on getting the global scheme up and running. we are serious about achieving carbon-neutral growth for aviation and we will provide technical and financial assistance to make it happen globally. aviation is a global business and no country must be left behind. in its proposal adopted earlier this month, the commission is proposing to continue with the current geographic scope of the eu emissions trading systems for aviation, covering flights between airports in the european economic area. this will ensure a level playing field and equal treatment for all airlines flying in europe. on social issues, let me now touch upon the social policy elements of your report. as noted in our aviation strategy, aircrew face legal complex issues due to their high mobility. in may 2016 the commission published guidelines to help pilots and cabin crews by clarifying the legal regime applicable to mobile workers. furthermore, the eu court of justice is expected this year to provide interpretation of these matters, in particular as regards the home base of aircrews. we are evaluating the concept of whether this notion of principal place of business is still fit for purpose. this is part of our ongoing evaluation of the air service regulation and this work should be completed next year, as foreseen in the aviation strategy. the commission is committed to strengthening social dialogue in aviation. the sectoral social dialogue committee on civil aviation offers opportunities for the aviation social partners and the commission to better assess and address together the social challenges of aviation. moving on to safety, let me be clear that the same safety standards apply to everyone, regardless of their employment relationships. safety is our top priority and easa is continuously examining the safety aspects of emerging business models. we will continue to closely monitor developments in the market and take action where necessary. social dialogue is essential. the commission is active and works closely with social partners, the member states and all stakeholders when addressing these matters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, aviation is a key element of the air transport system, which is indispensable in order to ensure connectivity within and outside the union. i believe that it is essential to develop both international hubs and regional airports in the context of strategic planning for the european airport system. the latter contribute to job creation and tourism development and facilitate traffic regulation at major european ports, promoting the integration and growth of remote areas. i therefore welcomed the european commission's communication on the concept of aid, as it stresses that public support for small airports, which serve mainly local users, is not likely to affect trade between member states. for these reasons, i believe it is important to support, including through state aid, investment and operation in small airports with little commercial traffic, which therefore cannot enter into competitive situations with other hubs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, air transport is the cornerstone of european mobility and the main means of giving effect to the freedom of movement guaranteed by the treaties. the new european aviation strategy must first aim at maintaining high quality and safety standards for passenger transport, both on the ground and in the air, including through incentives for innovation and targeted investment in digital technologies. airspace is part of the eu's single market and inefficient or irrational use of airspace, such as that caused by divergent national practices for operating procedures, taxes and levies, causes real inconvenience to citizens, increased costs and flight times, as well as higher fuel consumption and higher co2 emissions. the aviation sector needs to be rationalised and renewed. this must start with the european institutions, so that harmonious results are achieved and transport safety and accessibility are maintained as priority objectives.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although we agree with many of the points in this resolution, we have decided not to sign it. it is true that many of the passages are correct, but it is also true that we think that the focus should have been more on the francesca ramirez case and the construction of the china-canal. instead, the main issues ended up being sidelined to focus on a political issue. once again we are faced with yet another wave of violence against human rights defenders and indigenous communities in central america. we are afraid that a case like that of berta cáceres in honduras could be repeated and we should avoid and prevent such cases from occurring. the project of building this interoceanic canal and the economic interests of those few who will make a big profit from this canal are involved. we should learn from our past mistakes and try to be more firm, more decisive and more direct when we make these resolutions and go to the heart of the matter and not use them for political criticism, often even instrumental.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the political situation in nicaragua is deteriorating. in the country of the eternal president daniel ortega, there are still evident social contradictions and a growing distance between the majority of the population and the government. nicaragua is again making headlines in the international media for its lack of democracy, the progressive deterioration of the rule of law and the violation of human rights. international protests have been renewed by reports of threats against francesca ramirez, a nicaraguan farmer who is fighting against the construction of a navigable canal between the caribbean sea and the pacific ocean, a pharaonic project that also involves the transfer of as many as 10 000 farmers without adequate reimbursement. francesca ramirez fights for the nicaraguan farmers and for the protection of the environment. the acts of intimidation and violence against her must be strongly condemned. the european union and the international community must put pressure on the nicaraguan authorities to protect this brave farmer and her family.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i heard something, and i don't know if it's a translation error or something else. you said we support the death penalty in shiite regimes? the five star movement? if you find me doing one act in all my years in parliament, where we have supported the death penalty in shia regimes, i really raise my hand. i hope it was just a translation error. i 'll recharge it . the five star movement is against the death penalty everywhere in the world.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ali al-singace, abbas al-samea and sami mushaima were shot four times in the chest at dawn on sunday 15 january, just under a week after the court of cassation upheld their death sentences for the killing of two policemen in 2014. these are the first executions since 2010 in bahrain. they were tortured into confessing. they were not even informed of the execution, nor were their relatives allowed to attend the funeral ceremonies. exactly ten days later in kuwait seven prisoners were hanged, the first executions here in four years, and a fair trial is a pipe dream. cruel, inhuman, incapable of deterrence, the crime is irreversible: this is the death penalty everywhere in the world! two more men are now in danger of being slaughtered by the system, by the state, in the next few days in bahrain, unless there is a real pardon that we call for to end this atrocious and anachronistic practice. the values and principles of selective and commercial interests belong to other political parties and groups in this house. for the five star movement, justice will never be achieved by killing a human being, not in bahrain, not in kuwait, not anywhere in the world, including iran.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must reiterate its leading role in the fight for the abolition of the death penalty and for a moratorium on executions throughout the world. unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a resurgence of executions in many countries, even where a moratorium was in force. in the middle east we are witnessing a veritable wave of executions. in kuwait, after a four-year moratorium, seven of the 57 convicts currently on death row have been hanged. in early january, bahrain ended a six-year moratorium on executions by executing three people, all of whom were linked to political opposition circles. we must heed the holy father's call to abolish the death penalty, whether legal or illegal, in all its forms. there's a lot to do. slavery has been abolished. we must abolish the death penalty everywhere, we must free the world from this cruel and inhuman punishment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the authorities in bahrain and kuwait have resumed the death penalty, opening 2017 with three and seven executions respectively. moreover, in these cases not only were there executions, which in themselves represent one of the most barbaric practices in existence, but several other violations were also found. the trials were brief, with the defendants accusing the police of torture and ill-treatment. the return to the death penalty has also sparked popular discontent, creating instability in countries. now i want to say something. listening to the speeches by mr preda and mr kram, it seems absurd to me that we are still discussing the justification of human rights, whether you include iran or not. but it is logical that the same kind of practices, the same violations, are equally valid anywhere in the world. it is you who continue to promote the logic of double standards, that if a friendly state does this it is a caress, if a hostile state does this it is a very serious violation of human rights. in this obsession that you have with trying to re-encompass iran into something that has nothing to do with it the other violations in iran are also obviously violations that should be condemned in the same way this is confirmed by the trump followers, whom you criticize so much. you have the same obsession.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human rights in guatemala has never been exemplary, but lately the situation has worsened dramatically. in this context, the high number of attacks on human rights defenders and those engaged in the fight against impunity and corruption, as well as attacks on judges and legal practitioners, are of particular concern. it is not surprising that these violations are often directly or indirectly attributable to the activities of unscrupulous multinationals operating in that territory. the history of guatemala itself, since the days of the united fruit company and the american government, teaches us what unscrupulous investors are capable of. but the worst thing is that these despicable practices continue unabated into the 21st century. parliament has already made its views very clear on the responsibility of multinational companies for human rights violations. we can't afford to back down. this is the time to put aside hypocrisy and support for some powerful lobby and try to do something concrete against the intellectual authors of these human rights violations. we can do this, and if we don't, history will hold us accountable.
mr. chairman, i want to support this resolution, which was prepared by my colleagues. i think it is very good and right that we are talking about protecting human rights in guatemala. as has been said here many times, this is a country that has one of the highest rates of domestic violence, it has the highest per capita murder rate in the world, but at the same time, only four percent of those murders go to trial and the perpetrators are convicted. it has already been said that the victims of murder are often human rights defenders, activists, journalists, and it is therefore clear that we, as an institution that criticizes human rights violations anywhere in the world, must criticize the situation in guatemala. perhaps it is a little encouraging that the guatemalan government wants to make changes that could lead to a better functioning of the judiciary in guatemala in the future. so we should engage in active dialogue with guatemala and push the guatemalan government to actually implement justice reforms that will lead to future murder investigations and the perpetrators being brought to justice and convicted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe cannot remain indifferent to the violence against human rights defenders in guatemala, which has resulted in 14 murders in 2016 alone. the most affected by intimidation are activists fighting against impunity and corruption and for the protection of the environment, who are often the victims of outright smear campaigns by local businesses. europe must support the guatemalan authorities in their efforts to identify and prosecute the perpetrators of these criminal acts and in their efforts to publicly recognise the legitimacy of the activities of human rights activists and to counter the hate messages directed at them. the programme for the protection of human rights defenders, enshrined in a 2014 ruling of the inter-american court of human rights, needs to be fully implemented. in this sense europe can and must make its voice heard by strengthening cooperation with guatemala to support the country in its quest for democracy and human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, amnesty international has repeatedly denounced the plight of human rights defenders in guatemala. there are many reported cases of killings, threats and torture, aimed primarily at preventing activists from carrying out their activities. they are often forced to abandon their homes and their country. the main target groups are activists working on economic, social and cultural rights. violence occurs in a climate of total impunity for the perpetrators. i am confident that, also through the european parliament, pressure can be put on the guatemalan government to ensure the safety of activists by taking concrete measures to protect and prevent, investigate and punish abuses and threats against human rights defenders. the impunity of the perpetrators of these crimes, which is a cause for alarm in the international community, must be ended in the country.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are indeed very concerned about the number of murders of human rights defenders in guatemala, especially the case of sebastian alonso juan, and the continuous and increasing number of killings of human rights defenders in guatemala. the promotion of human rights is a key principle which guides our action globally and therefore we follow closely the situation in the country. while the overall population in guatemala is suffering from widespread violation of human rights and violence, human rights defenders continue to be particularly affected, especially indigenous leaders, journalists, trade unionists, lgbti communities and members of the judiciary. although in 2015 and 2016, reports of aggression incidents have fallen compared to previous years, assassinations have increased and acts of intimidation and defamation are on the rise. fourteen activists were killed last year alone, and the year of 2017 has sadly already witnessed the murder of yet another human rights defender. the eu has strongly condemned these hideous crimes and urged the effective prosecution of material and intellectual authors. limited capacities and resources have hindered the provision of an adequate response by the state’s institutions, and together with a perception of corruption and impunity, provoke mistrust of the institutions. this makes eu cooperation and partnership with guatemala to consolidate institutions even more important. the guatemalan authorities have taken a series of decisions that point in the right direction and therefore deserve praise and support, such as the extension of the mandate of the international commission against impunity in guatemala up to 2019 and the prosecution of alleged corruption cases, including at high level. still, more needs to be done to address the situation. this year will be of significant importance for guatemala with the preparation of the 28th session of the human rights council universal periodic review. numerous legislative initiatives are being discussed in the congress, inter alia the constitutional reforms, that many of you referred to, in the justice sector, the policy of the protection of human rights defenders, the abolishment of the death penalty, which if properly designed and adopted and effectively implemented may constitute significant progress for human rights. other areas for further progress include the establishment of a mechanism for free and informed prior consultations in line with ilo convention 169, and the implementation of precautionary measures granted by the inter-american commission on human rights to activists. respect for human rights is a key commitment of the eu agenda in guatemala. the eu is supporting and encouraging efforts on human rights challenges, including women and children’s rights, prison conditions, police behaviour, allegations of torture, corruption, collusion and impunity. the eu has also renewed its support to the international commission against impunity and will further engage to support anti-corruption and prevention of violence against women and children. the eu special representative for human rights also visited guatemala last june and had the opportunity to recall the imperious necessity to improve the situation. and finally, i would like to take this occasion to pay tribute to all the activists that selflessly and at great risk continue to fight for human rights, good governance and the rule of law in guatemala.
in writing. this resolution condemns in the strongest terms the recent killings in guatemala in 2016. i am concerned about the serious difficulties faced by human rights defenders in carrying out their work. a public strategy for the protection of human rights defenders needs to be developed, as indicated by the inter-american court of human rights in 2014. finally, i call on the eu institutions generally to conclude binding international agreements to strengthen respect for human rights, in particular with regard to eu-based companies operating in third countries.
we also have the pleasure of having with us today in the visitors’ gallery a delegation from the georgian parliament, led by our colleague ms tamara khulordava, within the framework of the fourth meeting of the eu-georgia parliamentary association committee, which has just taken place. i am very happy to welcome you to our plenary, especially on this occasion, and i am certain that you have had productive discussions with our members. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
welcome, prime minister. how are you?
you are the the first canadian head of government to address this plenary. we are proud to have you here with us in strasbourg. canada and europe share common languages, history, friendship, and a common vision for the future. our shared values must inspire our efforts in dealing with global challenges.
our history, our roots and our deep friendship go far beyond the purely commercial aspect. it is important to remember that we have fought, many times, side by side, and some have died defending freedom. mr prime minister, we will never forget canada's sacrifice to free europe and to defend democracy at home. we share the same vision of an open world and the need to work together to provide concrete answers to the problems of our citizens, whether it be the fight against terrorism, security, the management of migration flows, growth and jobs or climate change.
as you know, yesterday a large majority of the european parliament voted in favour of both the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the strategic partnership agreement with canada. this followed an extensive and thorough debate in which part of this assembly expressed strong concerns. we respect these differences. however, we now also have a responsibility to continue to provide accurate and complete information to our citizens on the substance of this agreement. prime minister, the floor is yours. (applause)
prime minister of canada. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. it is a privilege for me to be here today. this is the first time that a sitting canadian prime minister has addressed the european parliament. so i want to thank you very much for giving me this honor. as you know, i was in brussels a few months ago to sign the comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the strategic partnership agreement. president tusk, president juncker, prime minister fico and i have taken a major step towards deepening our relationship and increasing free and progressive trade between canada and the european union. and yesterday, we made a big step. this year we celebrate 41 years since the diplomatic mission of the european commission was established in ottawa, which noticeably happened under a different prime minister trudeau (plus ça change...), and over the course of our historic partnership canada and the eu have stood side by side on the things that matter, things like maintaining global security, advancing the values of peace and justice, creating good jobs for our people through trade and investment. we've worked together on climate change and on the rights of women and girls around the world. and, my friends, i am confident that we will achieve tremendous things together in the years to come for the countries we represent and, most importantly, for the people we serve. the european union is a truly remarkable achievement and an unprecedented model for peaceful cooperation. canada knows that an effective european voice on the global stage is not just preferable, it is essential. we know that the eu is the world's largest donor of development and humanitarian assistance and that together your member states constitute one of the world's largest economies. you are a vital player in addressing the challenges that we collectively face as an international community. indeed, the whole world benefits from a strong eu. (applause) i would like to thank you. on behalf of canadians, i want to thank you for this supportive and respectful relationship rooted in our culture, our history and our friendship. in fact, the ties between canada and the european union have become an example of international collaboration. i would like to thank dan costello, canada's current ambassador to the european union, for his exemplary service to our country. i must also thank and acknowledge the extraordinary work of our chief negotiator for this historic agreement, steve verheul, for his outstanding service, his hard work throughout each of the steps that have been necessary to take in the last few years. - thank you. - thank you. i would also like to highlight the appointment of our new senior spokesperson for the european continent, our new ambassador for the european union and for germany, the honourable stéphane dion. stéphane, who is a close friend and mentor to me, is a man who has long fought to make our country a better place for all canadians. he will represent canada proudly, with courage and conviction, as we embark together on this important new chapter. now, let me emphasize again how honoured i am to represent canada in this historic venue today. it was a priority for me to come to strasbourg and speak to you, because i value our relationship and what we have in common. i believe that the relationship between canada and the eu is so resilient because it is centered on an important bedrock of common values, values that shape and define us, values that canadians and europeans share. you see, collectively, we believe in democracy, transparency and the rule of law. we believe in human rights and we believe in inclusion and in diversity. we know that, in these times, we must choose to lead the international economy, not simply be subject to its whims, and we know that the state has an important role to play, not only in supporting its people, but also in creating the conditions for progress. and to this last point, we have just demonstrated to the world that we collectively value trade and the promise of prosperity for all our citizens that comes with it. yesterday, in addition to ratifying the strategic partnership agreement, this parliament voted in favour of ratifying the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). after years of negotiation, this important trade agreement is about to cross the finish line. i think we can all agree that ceta was an extremely ambitious project and will therefore also prove to be one of our greatest achievements. i would like to express my sincere gratitude to the former minister of international trade of canada, now our minister of foreign affairs, chrystia freeland, once again, to our chief negotiator, steeve verheul, and to their counterparts in the european union for their tireless efforts to conclude this agreement. i am confident that our new minister of international trade, françois-philippe champagne, will be a strong voice for canada on the international stage over the next few years. i know i can count on françois-philippe's many talents to work with the business community and all citizens to take the necessary steps to make this agreement reach its full potential. now let's be clear. a deal as ambitious as ceta takes a lot of hard work. every one of us in this room knows that it wasn't easy. it took a lot of back and forth. it took extended discussions and negotiations, meetings in canada, meetings in europe. we can't overstate how important it was to get this deal right. trade needs to work for people, for people who are struggling to make ends meet and raise their families, for people who worry that their future or their children's future will not hold the same promise and opportunities that it did for past generations. the people we represent will support trade if it creates better jobs and makes their lives more affordable. that's what they expect of us, and i for one fully intend to make sure that we deliver. (applause) my friends, we are all seasoned politicians in this room. we know it's always much, much easier to point out problems than it is to solve them. well, with ceta we have built something, something important, especially at this moment, on your continent and mine. now we need to make it work for your people and mine. if we are successful, ceta will become the blueprint for all ambitious future trade deals. if we're not, this could well be one of the last. so make no mistake about it, this is an important moment. the motto of the european union, 'united in diversity', is a great reminder of what can be accomplished when we recognise that we are stronger, not in spite of our differences but because of them. (applause) now we live in a time when many people are worried that the current system only benefits society's luckiest few, and their concern is valid. the anxiety people have towards the economy and trade, the worry that our kids won't have access to the same jobs and opportunities that we had, can be addressed only if we ensure the trade is inclusive so that everyone benefits. and this agreement, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, delivers just that, because at its heart ceta is a framework for trade that works for everyone. this agreement will lead to the creation of good, well-paying jobs for the middle class. it will ensure the well-being of families and help to grow and strengthen our communities. let's say you're a young entrepreneur with a new product or an innovative solution and you're facing the big challenge of reaching new consumers: aecg has just opened the door to new markets for you. are you a consumer who wants to buy imported goods but finds them too expensive? for example, the beautiful mukluks winter boots made by manitobah, a canadian company founded by indigenous people, are currently subject to a 17% european tax. thanks to the ratification of the ceta, these tariffs are being eliminated and you as a consumer can pay less when you go to the checkout if you want beautiful winter boots! trade that is free and fair means we can make the lives of our citizens more affordable and create more jobs, it means that manufacturers can expand their products' global reach, gaining market share, and successfully compete with the best in the world. and it means that people working in service sectors like engineering, architecture and information technology will see greater predictability and transparency when dealing with international clients. at the end of the day, both canada and the eu want to do what's best for our people. we want hard-working people to make a good living and support their families. we want moms and dads to be able to give their kids better opportunities than they ever had. we want each generation of canadians and europeans to be better off and to have a higher standard of living than the one that preceded it. deals like ceta, which is centered on the idea of trade that is both free and fair, will get us there at the end of the day by making it easier to buy and sell products. we can expand opportunities for our businesses, both back in canada and right across the eu, for everyone for small businesses, for entrepreneurs, for hard-working farmers and fishers. we can create jobs for the middle class and make sure that the benefits of trade reach our citizens. but let's be clear, this is not just about trade, imports, exports or profits; it's about improving people's lives. ceta is a comprehensive action plan to ensure responsible economic cooperation between countries. this modern, forward-looking agreement reflects a truly progressive trade agenda with provisions that protect the ability of companies to advance the public interest. ceta ensures that governments can continue to protect their citizens: protecting the workforce, promoting responsible investment practices, ensuring food safety and consumer safety, strengthening forest, fisheries and aquaculture management, and ensuring good environmental management. friends, this is truly one of the most sustainable and progressive trade agreements in the world. to all members present, thank you for the hard work you have put in over the past few years to make this ambitious goal a reality. i know that all our citizens will be better served. canada and the european union have been friends, partners and allies for a very long time, and our natural, easy relationship is grounded in what we have in common. we share goals and aspirations for a better, safer and fairer world. we want to do what is right by the workers and families we were elected to represent. and we embrace change, seeking the opportunity to lead in a global economy that is constantly evolving. ceta and the spa, these landmark agreements, are a direct reflection of what we have in common, and they will serve to benefit canadians and europeans alike for generations to come. in the things we have agreed on so far, and in the discussions ahead, the canada-eu strategic partnership will forever be rooted in respect with an eye to the future. my friends, dear colleagues, it is safe to say that this is just the beginning for canada and the european union. the best is very much yet to come. thank you, everybody.
thank you very much, dear prime minister. your visit to strasbourg is only the beginning of a new season of better cooperation between the european union, the european parliament and your country, canada.
i would like to welcome you to strasbourg. once again, welcome to europe. we're waiting for you for a second visit! (the sitting was suspended at 11.30 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
mr president, if i may do something unusual, i trust you will understand. mrs mercedes bresso is not here, but she has worked very intelligently and actively with mrs berès, mr brok, mr böge and mr verhofstadt to build an understanding of these relations. europe and the european parliament have an important answer: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the budget, which will be presented to the council in the autumn. i thank mercedes bresso for this and i thank all the rapporteurs and the majority who voted for these reports.
declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 16 february 2017. (the sitting was opened at 3 p.m.)
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 16 february 2017, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled: wednesday: i have received a request from mr terry reintke.
i am also concerned about freedom of expression in the world - wait a minute, i am replying to mr reintke - if your group wants to have a debate on this subject, we will discuss it at the next conference of presidents. i am waiting for the proposal from your group. i have the floor for mr spinelli.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to rule 22 of the rules of procedure and i am addressing myself to you, mr president, because i am surprised by what you said yesterday to the press about the return arrangements in libya. without parliament having discussed it yet, and knowing the objections of many members, it declared itself in favour of detention camps in libya, where migrants and refugees can be held - quote - for years. my group, but not only, is against the agreement, even the un considers libya an unsafe state. in the interview, you say that they should not be concentration camps and we would miss it but i don't know how the union can guarantee this, since libya is not a protectorate. i am surprised that you once promised to be a president who respects the diversity of this house, but i fear that is a promise that has not been kept.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the soviet union is not a member of the community, but that we should be concerned about the fact that the soviet union is not a member of the community. so i am also against concentration camps anywhere in the world. i have simply said that refugees and immigrants who have to stay in libya and who do remain in libya must be accommodated in camps where there are doctors, medicines and must be treated with full respect for the dignity of the person. i have only said that, and i have never mentioned concentration camps or detention camps. that is not part of my political culture, mr spinelli.
i appreciate all the speeches, but i remind you that we were discussing the approval of the agenda. it is all right to criticise the president, it is all right to say whatever you want in this house, but please respect the rules and respect the other members, otherwise it will really become a great mess. we were saying that on wednesday there is a statement by the president of the commission on the white paper on the future of the union, which will be added as the first item on the agenda. secondly, the report by mr jáuregui atondo on e-democracy in the european union: potential and challenges is postponed to the march part-session. third point: the sitting will continue until 24 hours. are there any objections? the agenda is thus altered. on thursday the legal affairs committee adopted the following report by mr ferrara on parliamentary immunity, pursuant to rule 9 (8) of parliament's rules of procedure, which will be added to the vote on thursday. the agenda is thus altered. the order of business is so fixed.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the white paper on the future of the eu [2017/2559(rsp) ]. i would like to thank the president of the commission and the whole commission for having decided to table this debate in parliament on the day of the adoption of the white paper on the future of europe. it is important that this institution, which is the only one directly elected by europeans, plays a central role in the debate for a more effective europe closer to our citizens. as you all know and as the commission knows, three reports by mr verhofstadt, mr böge-berès and mr bresso-brok were adopted in the last plenary session, and opened the debate in parliament. i believe that this debate should continue at the next plenary session and in view of the joint declaration to mark the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome on 25 march. i believe that this anniversary should not be just a celebration, but an opportunity for the european institutions to listen even more closely to citizens and to work together to address their concerns.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i know you, president juncker, as a devoted pro-european, a man who all his life has fought to make europe better and stronger. but the white paper the commission is now presenting has disappointed us now that europe is faced with unprecedented challenges: a protectionist us president, russia and china on the rise, and the bloody war on our doorstep from which millions of people are running for their lives; now that populists show their ugly face in every corner of europe; now that hardworking families all over europe are struggling to make ends meet and are worried about their children’s future; now that our common european house, which has sheltered us for decades, has to weather the toughest storm ever. now you are presenting us with a reflection paper and scenarios instead of a clear plan to fortify our house to weather this storm. you are right, president juncker, in showing all the political difficulties, because the difficulties are real; but it is necessary, it is essential, to indicate one political priority, one political option, because the european commission is not a bureaucratic body but a political body, and you know very well that we support you for this reason. i can only see one option, the fifth option, because it is the only viable option: to work together as europeans and to do much more together, because together we are stronger. there is so much left to do. our house needs a strong social pillar to protect our citizens. and it needs european fiscal capacity. we must complete the european monetary union and build a sustainable europe capable of fighting climate change and creating jobs and growth. we must combat tax fraud, and the project of a common european army is now more important than ever. we have to defend our inclusiveness without leaving aside the eastern countries. we can only achieve this if we stay united as europeans. president juncker, i call on you and on your commission to take on your responsibility. you are the guardians of the treaties, the guardians of the common european good and our common european future at this time. we ask you to show leadership and urge the council to take on their historic duty. in a couple of weeks, we will celebrate the anniversary of the rome treaties. only some years after a terrible world war in europe, political leaders had the courage to commit to european unity and explained to their citizens why we europeans are stronger together. after decades in which europe has brought us peace and prosperity, is it really too much to ask of this generation of leaders to commit to europe and make it stronger for the future? let us not give up. let us show political leadership in the fight together for a europe that is better and stronger, so that our children and their children will have a good future. (applause)
let us now move on to the other speakers. we are very late, i have been flexible with the group chairmen, and now i ask you to respect strictly the time allotted to you, and i cannot even give you a blue card because, again, the delay is very great.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, you said in your speech that the single currency and the single market are now at the service of the people. i can prove to you the exact opposite, and that is why the citizens are disaffected from the project, precisely because there is this conflict of interest, on which the european union is based, and the fact that you are presenting these proposals, after having been the president of a tax haven - in fact, luxembourg - for twenty years, makes this disaffection of the citizens towards the european union and the proposals that you can bring in this field rise even higher. do you really want people to be attached to the european project? so, let's start with three basic points: first, let's get rid of people with obvious conflicts of interest like you. secondly, let us discuss alternatives to the single currency and to this single market, putting them really at the service of the people, not just the big players. third, we involve citizens in this process. we want the referendums and direct democracy to be the pillars of the new europe, otherwise the citizens will always be asking themselves: who is in charge of europe, us or the lobbies?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, you are presenting a white paper on the future of the union today. if you have the courage to examine your conscience, you should present another one: the black book of the recent past, of inequality, poverty and social exclusion. the starting point is what europe can do. i'll tell you what to do. change policies and goals in all your scenarios. you want an example? in your single response to migration, erasing the already inflexible dublin of today, there is no mandatory and permanent preventive redistribution mechanism. your solidarity exists only in words, because the rules will say otherwise. your common defence is not about cutting costs and redundancies to reinvest savings in social spending, but about increasing spending to build a military superpower which for the moment has no real common interest and when you criticise turkey - mr president - remember that that illegal agreement with ankara was agreed by you and your commission without a single vote in this parliament. as always, you are just asking for more tools to better enforce the wrong policies and mistakes of these years. to your lack of self-criticism, to your wagons before the oxen, we say no. because without a real social europe, there is no europe, but there is still no social europe here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, each of the first four scenarios you have mentioned - mr president - contains elements of truth. the incremental dynamics triggered by the lisbon treaty should not be underestimated, the internal market remains our most powerful lever, differentiated integration is a fundamental instrument that already exists, and subsidiarity and proportionality are principles that can and must be better implemented. however, it is clear that only by doing more and together in some key areas, can we meet the challenges that lie ahead. in particular, it is clear that we must complete economic and monetary union if we are to make it sustainable and a factor of growth. for those who share the same currency, reducing unemployment is not an optional but a necessity, otherwise those who think that monetary sovereignty and devaluation must be recovered will win. parliament has shown that this can be done on the basis of the existing treaties and while preserving the unity of the union's legal framework, and has proposed a trade-off between enhanced convergence of economic policies and building fiscal capacity to support investment and absorb shocks. we understand that the political situation has recommended that this debate be postponed, but it cannot be allowed to lapse and the european parliament will make its voice heard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank president juncker for presenting the white paper on the future of europe to the european parliament. i think that this white paper can help to ensure that the rome summit is not just a celebration of 60 years, but also a meeting where we really talk about the revival of europe. president juncker has said it right, the continuing criticism of the european union must end. it is time to revive the europe of 27 united, to do more and to do it all together, pursuing the idea of a europe at high speed and not at two speeds. this is the only possible scenario for a possible union, the best scenario for the future of europe. this white paper on the future of the union will be followed by reports on the following subjects: the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. in short, i really hope that the white paper on the future of the union which you have presented, mr juncker, will be the birth certificate of the europe of 27.
president of the commission. mr president, i must say that the debates follow one another and are similar. the debate in the european parliament is unusual in that we do not listen to those who have spoken, but read the text that we have prepared. is that a debate? it's the opposite. so i won't say it again, because they won't listen to me a second time. you'll read, maybe it's easier than listening to it. to those who think that the commission has chosen its subject poorly, i will simply say that in europe you should never try to innovate. there are too many classicalists, traditionalists, reactionaries and conservatives who do not accept a change in method. there has been criticism of the method which has been used, which has consisted of proposals from the commission which are sometimes considered but never discussed with the general public. now the commission proposes something else: we are putting forward for everyone's consideration, including this house, different scenarios, not all of which i approve of. you have heard that among the options we are presenting, there is one which i like much more than the other four. but if we only present one, we kill the debate. we are shouting from all the rooftops of europe that we must debate, that we must find our way back to our fellow citizens, our voters - who are citizens and not just voters - and when we do, we criticize them. but "shit!" would be my response if we were not in the european parliament. what do you want us to do? the socialist group - and my friend gianni, who is no longer here, although he is normally here - criticises the commission for not having said which option he would prefer. i would therefore like to ask the socialist group, in all friendship, to send me its opinion on this matter within the next fortnight, identifying those who are in favour of option 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5. do not forget to speak to the socialist prime ministers, do not forget. you are not prime ministers, unfortunately for your countries, but they are and think the opposite of what you say.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the european commission, guardian of the treaties, presents a scenario with five possible scenarios for the future of europe. it is now up to the european parliament, as an expression of the will of the citizens, to open a debate on the basis of these assumptions, in order to find an answer to the challenges facing our union. the european parliament has a duty to act. the most desirable direction to take is a multi-speed europe, a differentiated europe that moves forward quickly and effectively by involving the states that want greater integration. this solution has its own logic, the challenges are many and united europe, as the world's leading economic power, has a responsibility at international level which it cannot ignore. but we must avoid leaving anyone behind, remembering our values: europe is primarily about solidarity.
i know that there are indicators for blue cards, but i am following the advice of president tajani and i will not accept blue cards because of time constraints.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a few general remarks from the commission representative on the subject of immigration. i would like to know something specific about what we are doing with libya, because the importance of the agreements with libya was strongly emphasized, but then nothing was heard about it. in reality, we have on the one hand a sarraj government in the hands of the muslim brotherhood, that is, the islamist cartels, and on the other hand poor italy, which is unable to conclude anything with a country like this. it is one thing to make agreements and to make them public, perhaps through the european media, which are very complacent towards the commission, but it is another thing to implement these agreements, to give substance to this action which should also be protected on a humanitarian level. we do not know where these asylum seekers are, we do not know how they are treated, we do not know what the role of these militias is, we do not know what is happening to the ports of cyrenaica, which are certainly not controlled by the sarraj regime. this is a very confusing, unclear situation, to which the european commission refuses to give clear answers and to tell the truth, we want to know the truth, what is happening in libya about immigration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next council must give priority to employment, growth and competitiveness policies, continuing on the path of progress made so far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. in this context, only responsible but clearly growth-oriented fiscal policies can help to put the current recovery on a more sustainable footing and to promote growth and employment. a common defence plan is also urgently needed, along with closer ties with nato. at this historic moment, with america suddenly divided, a major economic effort by the member states, but not only, towards a common defence would be the tangible sign that the ideals underlying the union are still strong and shared. i hope that the same cohesion will be shown in the debate on the mediterranean route, where italy is devoting daily energy and resources to dealing with an emergency which affects the whole of europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe should be helping children fleeing war, but it is not, and i wonder: does not do so out of incapacity or complicity; is he incapable of or complicit with the criminals, the human traffickers who organize death trips? why does the european union let hundreds of children die every year in the mediterranean sea? why are there not humanitarian corridors to welcome genuine refugees to europe in a legal and safe way, thus preventing the arrival of so many illegal immigrants who are exploited by the criminal world for the drug trade, child prostitution and organ trafficking? every day in italy, 28 unaccompanied minors disappear. the penelope association has come to parliament to ask us to address the phenomenon of thousands of unaccompanied children who have disappeared at european level. this association, which does an extraordinary job in italy of helping families and missing persons, has also come to ask for help, our help, for the 1 600 children, italian citizens who have disappeared. let us not forget these children 1 600 who are european citizens and who have vanished into thin air.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner avramopoulos for his statements. the figures cited by the commissioner, as well as the figures published just yesterday by unicef on missing children, demonstrate the seriousness of the situation and highlight the need to implement a comprehensive strategy at european level, based on the principle of the best interests of the child. the european institutions must therefore make every effort to ensure that all the proposals for reform of the asylum system are consistent, and i am referring in particular to the proposal for a revision of the dublin regulation which maintains, also for minors, the criterion of responsibility of the country of first arrival, with the risk of indirectly encouraging minors to undertake secondary movements in order to move clandestinely to the member state where they wish to apply for asylum. as was said at the conference on 'lost in migration' in malta, in order to protect children in europe, we must ensure that they can apply for asylum in the country where a person with family ties is present. and while the proposal to introduce biometric data for children, even from the age of six, in the eurodac system is welcome, in order to protect minors, it is necessary that this should be done with adequate safeguards, with specialised staff and with all the necessary precautions to avoid trauma for children. it is also essential to instill confidence in migrant children, to ensure that they are welcomed in a dignified manner, to assign each child a properly trained guardian who will assess what is in their best interests, and to promote initiatives that will help their integration in the long term.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to give a concrete example, because i listened carefully to what the commissioner said. when the most vulnerable people, who are children, arrive in a member state in europe, what are they? i'm a number, that number disappears, that number is nowhere to be found. in hotspots when they're recorded, before the recordings, we have to give them immediate protection. why not delete this number, which i consider to be a disgrace, and give them an emergency card immediately? because they're rights holders. then: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the child that the commissioner should be informed of the decision. the last point, and i say no to transfers, is a major financial commitment, because protection requires an economic commitment, and if there is no money, there is no protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unaccompanied minors arriving in europe via the central mediterranean route are victims of all kinds of violence, they are the most at risk group. according to the recently published unicef report 'a deadly journey for children', of the 181 000 migrants and refugees who have arrived in italy, about 30% are children, and nine out of ten of them have arrived on italian shores unaccompanied. in addition, of the estimated 4,579 migrants who died in 2016 while crossing the mediterranean, 700 are believed to have been children. europol reported that at least 10 000 migrant and refugee children went missing in europe in 2016; many of these children are recruited into the world of micro-crime where they are subjected to various forms of exploitation. these are the numbers of an odyssey. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. unaccompanied minors must be protected and protected against all threats. this must be a top priority for europe, and we are making europe that way.
in writing. europol data are clear and over 10 000 refugee children are reported to have disappeared in europe. these children, who are often undocumented and often unaccompanied by adults, risk falling prey to international criminal organizations whose aim is to enslave or sexually exploit them, if not for the sale of their organs. the european legal landscape is fragmented and fragmented, lacking a unified strategy to effectively combat the disappearance of migrant children. instead, action should be taken quickly to ensure that a single protocol is adopted, allowing them to be identified at the time of disembarkation or at any rate on arrival, registered in an eu-wide shared database and immediately referred to child protection services. in the event of a disappearance, action should be taken as a matter of urgency, by sending alerts and warnings to each competent authority in each member state. we also need a policy of firm and effective action against all forms of exploitation and abduction of immigrant children, and the commission should take action on this matter as a matter of priority and not just use words, both beautiful and empty.
in writing. the report published by unicef, with the emblematic title "a deadly journey for children", photographs a dramatic situation that we cannot ignore because of moral duty, sense of justice, political honesty and institution. of the 181,436 migrants and refugees who arrived in italy in 2016, 28,223 are children. nine out of 10 are unaccompanied minors. 28 disappear every day. after the violence, the torture, the trauma of a journey through hell, they do not find a proper welcome in europe, so many flee, lose their traces, continue to be the perfect victims, because they are helpless, of a crime without scruples. there are no migrant children and european children, no refugee children and citizen children, but children and young people whom europe has a duty to distinguish from adults. children need different care, different attention, dedicated spaces and a path, a project, that can lead them, if not to forget, to overcome so much pain. today the european commission is adopting its recommendations on migration policy, which must include a chapter on children fleeing war and arriving in europe. rules which must apply to all member states. let no one feel absolved, because we are all involved.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is 1 march, and it is actually, if we think about it, the first day of paid work in 2017 for many women, but not because they have been on holiday since new year's eve, not for that reason, but because - if we take into account, of course, the equal work compared to male colleagues - they have worked for free for the first two months. this is what all the studies that reconstruct the situation with respect to the wage gap tell us. because, yes, in our prosperous, rich europe, there are still these enormous differences, and they are - ladies and gentlemen - absolutely unacceptable, as you have said. it is also unacceptable that this difference should be reduced at this insignificant rate, because at this rate we will be arriving at equal pay in 80 years' time; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years much has been done to reduce the pay gap between men and women in europe. the data are encouraging, but they are certainly not satisfactory. today women aged 30 to 35 are found to have on average a higher level of education and are therefore more qualified than men of the same age, but only 63% of the latter are in a professional activity, compared with 75% of men. this situation of inequality, as we have said, is also reflected in the gender pay gap, which tends to widen in pensions. policies are therefore needed to change this trend, to support women in their need to reconcile work and family life, but above all, investment in education is needed to break down the prejudices and discrimination which still too often lead to a pay gap between men and women.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think we all agreed that equal pay is, first of all, a matter of elementary fairness, and the fact that we still have this average pay gap of 16-17% also shows, among other things, the lack of respect for women, which is so deeply rooted in traditions and stereotypes. so we need to be smart in introducing a combination of legislative and non-legislative measures in order gradually to change the situation and the conditions. yes, we heard here from several men – and the one who offended all of us reminded me of a discussion i had last year in new york with an african minister who had very similar opinions, and i realised how happy i am to live in europe, even though we have all the problems we have discussed here. this is a good address for women, because the vast majority of us agree that there must be full respect for women, and that there is no reason for keeping the pay gap. this is a matter of fairness, but keeping the pay gap and keeping the barriers for women who want to combine better family duties and work is also a matter of alarming economic short-sightedness, because we have very telling figures showing that not enabling women to go to work if they want to combine work with their family duties – with better help from men, of course – is a great waste of talent. i am in frequent contact with it companies and they desperately need talent, they need innovation, they need fresh thinking, and they are seeking women in this sector. they are also seeking women because women are more in tune with consumer thinking. women comprise up to 70% of consumers, as measured by the volume of money invested, so there is a demand to have more women better educated for this sector. speaking also about those economic factors – and we need to speak about them because when we speak about this only as a gender problem it will not fly because the argument of unfairness, and i do not know why, is still not strong enough – in economic terms, society needs children. we heard the figures today in our new white paper: the demographic trend in europe is really alarming, and we need to think about it. our societies, our economies, need to harvest what has been invested in the education of women. it is so short sighted not to help women to use their education in better jobs. i could continue this economic argument but i will give you just two figures. we can see that keeping the barriers for women going to work if they so wish costs, in some member states, up to 5% of gdp. this is a telling figure. there is another figure which i do not use very often but which is relevant, understanding that women’s economic dependence on men leads to violence against women: that figure shows how much this horrible phenomenon in the eu costs. we have calculated that it is eur 260 million a year in europe. this is the cost of violence against women. i could continue. i know we do not have much time, so i will conclude by saying that i take this gender pay gap very seriously, i understand all the complexity, and i can only repeat that we need to address all the sources of the pay gap and to come up with smart, well-targeted measures to get rid of it as soon as possible. maybe we could discuss further whether there is a need for bigger sanctions, whether there is a need to encourage victims of discrimination to complain more often, and so on. there are very concrete measures which we want to introduce.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, commissioner, honourable members, thank you once again for this timely and useful debate. it has shown once again the complex, but pressing nature of this problem. a cross-cutting life-course approach is needed. each measure we take in each policy area is a part of the puzzle. the presidency had decided to focus in particular on the issue of skills. on friday, the council will adopt a set of conclusions on enhancing the skills of women and men on the european union’s labour market. improving the skills of women will improve their situation on the job market and, later on, in retirement. it is a necessary step on the road towards equal economic independence. in its conclusions in the context of the european semester on the annual growth survey and the joint employment report, the council will note that more visibility should be given to the gender pay gap and the gender gap in coverage of pensions and that more efforts should be made to reduce them. thank you once again for your attention.
in writing. the data on the gender pay gap in the european union is complex and varies widely by geographical area. in particular, it is worrying to see how in some regions of europe wage imbalances are increasing rather than decreasing. inequalities grow or persist despite women having on average higher education than men: women represent 60% of all graduates, and on average 83% of women have attained at least a higher secondary education qualification in the eu, compared with 77.6% of men. in the light of these data on educational attainment, it is easy to see how promoting equal pay between men and women is essential for all companies that want to invest in talent and professionalism. women have increasingly high expectations of working life, and it is the duty of the european institutions to encourage this path to equality in a harmonious way for all member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the law on the partial decriminalisation of domestic abuse recently passed in russia has raised considerable concern, despite the sharp criticisms voiced by human rights groups. domestic violence is, in fact, in every country in the world, a particularly serious violation of women's rights, which causes indelible trauma even in children and is unfortunately a problem that often, rather than being denounced, remains hidden, protected by domestic walls and the complicity of a social fabric closed to any intervention by the state in what are considered only family matters. in the face of the immediate denunciation by the high representative of the union and all the member states, who has stigmatised russia's actions, the european union must commit itself with the utmost determination to promoting, through its foreign policy, the elimination of domestic violence also outside its borders.
authors madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking the commission this question because we want to give a voice to the more than 3 million european citizens living in britain and the one million and more british citizens living in the union. the anxiety of both sides is great and their rights of movement, residence and work will have to be guaranteed now and in greater detail in the future withdrawal agreement. contrary to what the brexiteers claim, it will be extremely difficult to assert their acquired rights. there have been a lot of lies told in the referendum, the remainers have been too silent and reticent on this point and it is crucial that the commission speaks out. the house of lords has already said this unequivocally: in the absence of a negotiated agreement, the consequences of losing the rights of european citizenship will be severe, so it is important to know how the commission intends to deal with the infringements for which the united kingdom has been responsible in recent years with very restrictive laws on the residence of european citizens in england. until the day when a separation agreement is reached, the united kingdom is subject to european law, the free movement directive, and must therefore be held accountable for any unilateral violations, in the same way as all member states are obliged to do. until then, britain cannot simply say that it will only admit the 'brightest and best' into the union, and of course the wealthiest, as it promises to do after leaving.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are learning from the british home secretary that the principle of free movement as we know it is going to change very suddenly after brexit. the fact remains, however, that one of the fundamental pillars of the union is the right to free movement and that all primary legislation, both community and national, is based on this pillar. this balance has been called into question since the initiation of the article 50 procedure, but it should be stressed that the right to free movement is also enshrined in article 45 of the charter of fundamental rights. this raises the level of protection of the principle to a higher level, particularly when considering the acquired rights and life expectancies of those who have decided to live and not just reside in the united kingdom. i hope that these concerns will not become a tool for diplomatic pressure and negotiation, leaving room for the substantive adequacy of the protection of the citizens of the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a woman who has already served as a judge in italy - a country where 50.6% of judges are women today - i am sorry to note that there is still a marked gender gap within the court of justice and the general court. in addition, the court of justice has also been called upon to provide for the appointment of judges of different sexes to the court of justice. since 2016, the only new judge of the court of justice has been a man, while as far as the general court is concerned, 15 male judges and only 3 women judges have been appointed. it is therefore clear - and i am addressing the council - that we must continue to urge the states to propose a greater presence of women in the court of justice, where they are certainly able to bring their skills, competence and commitment. this is to give substance to the principle of gender balance in the states, but also in the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a malfunctioning internal energy market puts the union in a vulnerable and disadvantaged position as regards the security of energy supply and jeopardises the potential benefits for consumers and industry. the strategic objective of the energy union is to provide access to secure, sustainable and competitively priced energy. i believe that the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries in the field of energy, while moving in the right direction and limiting the individualism of member states, does not fully meet the need for prior information. as with intergovernmental agreements, joint declarations between eu member states and third countries must be examined before they are signed, in order to create the necessary legal certainty for investment. only an equivalent system of control of intergovernmental contracts and non-binding instruments can prevent the parties from finding loopholes.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mrs cabezón, for the work she has done here, also on behalf of mr corrao, of the committee on development, since the work they have done in that committee and in the committee on the environment has been well received, especially with regard to the issues that have been identified and highlighted with regard to the developing countries. however, i would like to return to the subject of what is happening here in europe and especially the violation of fundamental rights, such as health. i am referring to the sofosbuvir, which the rapporteur has mentioned before, which can lead to complete cure of hepatitis c and which is sold in the european union at 277 times the production price. pertussis vaccine is produced for less than a dollar, but in the european union it is sold for $120; erlotinib, for pancreatic cancer, costs €15,000 per treatment and produces an average increase in survival of only 15 days; cetuximab, for lung cancers, costs €80,000 per patient and produces an average increase in survival of only one and a half months. we believe that mr cabezón's own-initiative report does not deal with these issues with the necessary force. but the worst comes from those shameful amendments by the epp and alde which even want to promote 'incremental innovation'. we are ridiculous. any doctor knows very well that the industry uses the strategy of the "evergreen patent", to preserve as much as possible the monopoly of a product, making only minor changes such as, for example, the addition of an excipient. we have asked for a roll-call vote on this amendment because everyone must know who are the political groups who are on the side of the industry which wants to profit at all costs from the skin of patients, making them in fact chronic patients who never need to be cured, because then, really, they can squeeze them to the bone.
the committee on petitions has also tabled a number of amendments. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the damage caused by austerity measures, by the horizontal cuts in public health budgets and the unavailability of medicines or lack of access to them because of their high cost, make it impossible today for an exponential number of european citizens, especially the poorest, to have access to health care. inequalities are sharply increasing, but at european level there is still a political will to maintain the status quo, aggravated by the obscure relationship between pharmaceutical companies and parts of the institutions, which is clearly not intended to be fully transparent. it is not otherwise that the juncker commission decided to withdraw its proposal to amend directive 89/105/eec on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products - a directive dating back 28 years - despite the commission's own admission that the regulatory framework in force today no longer reflects the way in which medicinal products are priced. this is an unacceptable state of affairs which once again undermines the credibility of the community's executive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to update european legislation on medicines, a market which generates over 200 billion euros in turnover and which employs over a million people. a growing sector that needs advanced regulations, not just to ensure the safety of medicines, but also the quality of innovation and sustainability of health systems for an aging population. medicines are different from other consumer goods, and intellectual property rules risk conflict with health protection, which requires governments to ensure access to medicines for all. i shall therefore vote in favour of this report, which also calls for more public investment in research and seeks to overcome the fragmentation of the european market and the disparity in access to medicines among european citizens. i would also like to stress that there is a subject connected with the waste of medicines, which we should also deal with, and on which i have just today submitted a written question to the commission, asking the member states to take action to promote the recovery of medicines that are valid and have expired. we are talking about tons of medicines that end up in waste each year, causing significant environmental damage, as well as economic damage to the systems... (the president withdrew the floor).
in writing. the financial crisis and austerity policies are forcing many states to make large cuts in essential services such as healthcare. it's the millions of patients who can't access care and medicines because of the price. there are medicines on the market which can treat a number of diseases but at prices which are unreasonably prohibitive. for example, sofosbuvir is a medicine used to treat hepatitis c, which is sold within the eu at a price that is 277 times the manufacturing price. the mechanisms of intellectual property, rather than meeting the needs of patients, are used by pharmaceutical companies to maximize profits. all this is in clear contradiction with the fundamental right to health.
in writing. in recent decades, the prices of new medicines in the eu have risen to the point where they are unaffordable for many citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the carriage of goods by road. i am sorry to see that, while 11 million italians are forced to give up medical care, some politicians are working to increase the business of the pharmaceutical companies. we know that the pharmaceutical industry uses the strategy of the 'evergreen patent' in order to maintain as much as possible the monopoly of a product by making only minor changes, such as the addition of an excipient. we have asked for a rollcall vote on this amendment because everyone must know who the political groups are that support it. it is good to reiterate that we of the five star movement oppose, today as always, those political groups that are on the side of industry and the pharmaceutical multinationals whose only interest is to make profits at the highest cost of all: the skin and the health of the patients.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union imports canadian wheat which, under north american law, should be disposed of as waste, whereas here in europe it becomes pasta, bread, pizza, flour and sweets. we are witnessing a kind of reverse dumping, which is damaging to the agriculture of the south and is harmful to the health of consumers. the practice of mixing contaminated grain with uncontaminated grain in order to obtain batches of medium contaminated grain, even within the legal limits, is prohibited, but some processing industries justify this practice as unavoidable by their know-how. the commission must harmonize the european mycotoxin thresholds at international level, starting with the don. this should be accompanied by a ban on the use of glyphosate in imported grains, recognition of the subsidiary role of associations in the toxicological analysis of cereal products and support for consumer information campaigns. we must respect the trust of consumers and the structures of workers.
the agenda includes the report by silvia costa, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of regulation (eu) no 1295/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 december 2013 establishing the creative europe programme (2014-2020) and repealing decisions no 1718/2006/ec, no 1855/2006/ec and no 1041/2009/ec (2015/2328(ini)) (a8-0030/2017).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their great contribution. it is the first time that we have reported on the implementation of a multiannual programme as a parliament. creative europe is the only direct european union programme for the creative, cultural and audiovisual sectors, which today involves 39 countries, with a budget of 1.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. a budget which has increased by 9% in the last seven years, but which represents only 0.15% of the european budget. yet there is some evidence. the european crisis reveals the need for a strong investment in culture and intercultural dialogue and research linked to culture. cultural heritage activities are a growing source of new employment, innovation, skills, social inclusion and cultural tourism. moreover, the audiovisual and creative cultural sector now accounts for over 5% of european gdp, which becomes 12% if we include fashion and advertising. the large number and quality of projects submitted to creative europe shows the great vitality of the sector, which is however mainly made up of non-profit organisations, small and medium-sized enterprises, cultural institutions and associations, which need to be supported, accompanied in the digital challenge, in the formation of new skills and by promoting cooperation, the mobility of professional artists and cultural products, by supporting co-productions, european networks of professionals, strengthening the industrial capacity of european audiovisual and its access to the foreign market, in particular by promoting the internationalisation of careers. these are the most strategic objectives of creative europe: the fact that the previous culture and media programmes have been brought together under a single programme, while remaining separate, with the addition of a cross-sector, has proved useful in giving strength and greater visibility to the programme and in coordinating governance, but has not yet produced the results of integration between the different sectors and projects that we expected. unfortunately, creative europe suffers from its own success: the ratio of applications submitted to those accepted is extremely limited, with a success rate of only 16% for projects under the culture sub-programme and 32% for the media sub-programme. with this implementation report we strongly call on the european commission and the member states to integrate the funds robustly, in line with the ambitions of the programme, but we also call for culture to finally become the 11th priority of at least the commission's programme; the word doesn't appear. the text we are about to vote on asks: improvements in the management of the programme, improvements in the evaluation and criteria for evaluating projects, to make it more accessible, simple, transparent, capable of supporting every sector and thus more balanced between sectors, small and large actors and also of course the balance between small and large member states (the participants), giving room to the european ambition to count on the world cultural scene and together to support the creativity of young people, of historical realities and institutions in which we recognize our roots, as we have appreciated the calls finally also for social inclusion and also for immigrants and refugees. it will be necessary to refocus the programme on the quality and artistic value of cultural proposals and not just economic, as sometimes seems to prevail by supporting integration with other programmes and openness to partnerships with non-european countries, especially those facing the mediterranean area, and in view of the new strategy for cultural diplomacy and the european year of cultural heritage, strongly supported by parliament for 2018. we call for the current mechanisms to be overcome in order to safeguard the diversity of european audiovisual production, but by enhancing the real production capacity and circulation of audiovisual products, as well as greater support for european positions and co-productions in the television field, including with independent producers, and more access by cinemas and online distribution. more needs to be done to strengthen synergies between the creative europe programme and the various multiannual programmes, in particular erasmus+ and horizon 2020. the link between research, innovation and culture is absolutely vital and i am glad that commissioner moedas is here, because i know that he is very sensitive to this issue, but also to innovation in small and medium-sized cultural enterprises. i'm going to the conclusion. finally, we are waiting to hear the outcome of the new financial guarantee instrument which we have so strongly wanted, dedicated to this sector, since the first two european financial institutions have just been selected, by very few, and we hope that others can also be selected to cover the european territory in a balanced way, but we ask that the proposal to integrate them with the efsi be followed up, also using them as a front-loading to strengthen the economic and entrepreneurial dimension of the sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the production of quality content, the ability to innovate, to tell stories, to imagine, to excite, has become our real raw material and is a source of employment, as has already been pointed out, particularly for young people. 'creative europe' as silvia costa mentioned earlier is the only direct eu programme for the creative, cultural and audiovisual sectors. it aims to safeguard and promote cultural and linguistic diversity and to foster and support the competitiveness of the cultural and creative sectors. a relatively small programme, divided, as already mentioned, into two sub-programmes, culture and media, but absolutely strategic, especially since, i believe also thanks to the stubborn will of the culture committee of the european parliament, a new cross-sectoral financial instrument was introduced in 2016. a major guarantee instrument, albeit with an objectively small budget of eur 121 million and a multiplication factor estimated at 5.7 which, as the commissioner has pointed out, has already led to some concrete results. in the first few months of this year, agreements were signed to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector in spain, france and romania. unfortunately, the ratio of applications submitted to those received remains the fundamental problem, because it is too limited. the solution lies in the necessary administrative simplification already agreed, but above all in a more appropriate increase in the financial allocation, and i think that reference to the efsi is essential. after the first two years of implementation of this programme, we can therefore say that creative europe is a key reference point for european art and culture and it must also be said that it is very popular among thousands of citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. the report we are voting on today is a good compromise. i am convinced that the creative europe programme, although it has some criticisms, as a whole must be considered and judged positively. this is particularly true of the opportunities it creates for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises and i agree with the call for increased funding for the programme. but for this very reason i do not favour the transfer of funds of eur 3 million to finance the european year of cultural heritage in 2018. i do not think that this type of operation can be supported and we cannot divert funds from a programme which is already vastly underfunded. i would also like to mention the need to streamline and simplify the bureaucratic procedures for participation in calls for tenders, as many colleagues have already said. in this respect, the request to encourage the use of digital tools is correct. on the other hand, the recognition that the system of performance indicators of the programme takes into account the creative and artistic aspects, and not only the purely economic ones. we should all consider this recognition as critically important if we believe in creativity. the creative aspect, in order to be fully developed and to generate quality works, cannot always be subject to economic return. the spasmodic pursuit of profit at all costs kills creativity. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the creativity, ingenuity and artistic qualities of human capital, the great heritage which europe's history has consolidated, are the connecting tissue underpinning the idea of a community which must find in the culture of beauty the figure of its growth. culture knows no barriers, breaks down walls, supports dialogue between differences, enhances them by weaving positive feelings, becomes an opportunity to promote economy and quality work. this means not only more resources, but a new link between programmes and instruments, as well as simplification, greater accessibility and a decisive change from overly rigid and formal evaluation criteria, which end up penalizing the most innovative and quality ideas. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the proposal. culture is an extraordinary opportunity for emancipation, if it orients its languages within a new framework of solidarity, of cohesion between peoples, through the revalorisation of the oldest humanistic traditions of this continent. it is therefore an opportunity to combat the xenophobic and racist populist drift which is contaminating europe. the hope is therefore that the instruments at our disposal today will be rethought and reoriented so as to facilitate, through cooperation, a new connection between the shores of the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to congratulate mr costa on his excellent report. the creative europe programme has proven to be useful in anticipating new trends in relevant fields, linking culture and creativity, promoting the circulation of young talented artists, audience development in the digital single market ecosystem and, in line with the 2005 unesco convention, cultural diversity at international level. creative europe has set objectives, adopted a set of evaluation criteria, but has neglected the artistic quality of creative and cultural proposals, without which art risks becoming purely commercial. in this way, the program would end up rewarding those who follow the prescribed format, instead of trying to discover the true quality. i hope that the promotion of cultural quality and the intrinsic value of culture will be included among the evaluation criteria and objectives of the legal basis of the post-2020 programme. the mid-term review will aim to strengthen education, public development, market access and social inclusion in view of the new programme for the period 2021-2028.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for this very interesting debate and for all the ideas that came out of the discussion. i think everyone talked about diversity. everyone used that word as something that we should really cherish and i think that, more than ever, we need in europe a creative and cultural programme. as commissioner for innovation and as someone who lived abroad for a long time, firstly i believe deeply that we have a european culture and those of you who, like me, have lived abroad felt that every day when you lived outside of europe. you feel that you have a culture that is different to others because it is a culture of diversity, because you think differently, you feel differently, because you are more intolerant of inequality, because you feel yourself, when you are abroad, that you are closer to your european friends. i lived for years outside of europe and most of my friends were always europeans because we speak that language of diversity, of understanding others. i think that it is very important to realise that, even with that diversity of languages, we are so close, much closer than you might think, and especially when you live abroad, as i have lived. the second point that came from the discussion that is essential is that innovation comes from these intersections – these intersections of disciplines, these intersections of science and art and music – and so many of you here referred to that. in 2015 i was at the nobel prize award ceremony and the person who won the nobel prize for medicine was a woman called tu youyou. this woman is not a medical doctor; it is a very interesting fact that most of the nobel prizewinners are not specialists in their own field. they come from other fields. they come from those intersections. tu youyou saved millions of people because she discovered a cure for malaria. she discovered that cure for malaria because she was reading a poem in a book that was more than 1 700 years old. by reading that poem she found a plant called artemisia and then she found through that poetry how she could extract that plant, artemisia, in a way that would save people. she found this cure that has saved millions of people and i think that that is the future – the future is this cross between culture and science and art. if we want to be at the edge, if we want to be at the best that technology does, that science does, we have to be at these borders of culture and arts and science. thank you so much for the very interesting debate. it was a great place to be this morning, listening to all of you, believers in europe and believers in this programme, as i am.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with this fine debate in which so many colleagues have generously participated and i thank them also for the words they have had to say to me and i am very grateful to commissioner moedas for his genuine attention. i fully agree with the point you made: the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european year of innovation and technology. i think that this is the challenge for the second part of the week for creative europe, which has to do much more on this front, but i think it is an internal problem of the programme, but also an external one. we have spoken about this before, and we must absolutely achieve - as we have asked for - greater attention across the board, including the different dgs and the different areas of responsibility, so that erasmus+, horizon 2020, the structural funds, can be integrated more closely, and we are naturally calling for a serious and substantial increase in the budget. you have heard all the colleagues talking about the frustration of so many cultural workers who will eventually get tired of proposing - this is terrible, at a time like this, the crisis we are living in europe, which is a cultural crisis; it would be strange if culture were not finally put at the top of the juncker agenda. the second assessment - i cannot answer all of them, but i will summarise some of the most important and common questions - a dilemma has existed between diversity and unity and has accompanied europe since its birth, it is clear that cultural policy is not a community policy but cultural policy is based on the treaty for two aspects: to enhance and support cultural and linguistic diversity and, on the other hand, to enhance and protect the common european cultural heritage. so diversity in unity is the number of europe and even when we talk about european cultural diplomacy, which we are engaged in, we always talk about making known how we have been able to live in a dimension of peace on this continent, precisely because diversity and dialogue have led to a possibility of peaceful coexistence, innovation and inclusion. this is the challenge of culture under the heavens. so there is no contradiction. i would also like to say that europe's roots lie in music, philosophy, thinkers, spirituality, creativity, theatre, literature and that the greatest people in all countries have been those who have not closed themselves off in their small countries but have engaged in dialogue with the world, who have tried to understand, everything is woven into the history of european culture, it would be shortsighted not to recognize this. so what do we want with this programme? in the meantime, greater attention should be paid to this integration of the sectors; second: the idea of having more attention to the evaluation criteria has come from everyone and i agree that we should have criteria that evaluate more the artistic merit and also the intrinsic cultural merit of the projects. i think it is right to demand now that this new financing which is given through loans, as a financial instrument, should not be reserved for those accredited financial situations, only for the countries where they reside but are made to support european projects. and lastly, time is running out for cultural networks, it is very true, we want to support more european cultural networks which are those that cross europe, cultural routes and european capitals of culture which have completed thirty years since their establishment. we asked them to rate this as a remarkable achievement, because in many cities, which were also in industrial crisis -- we said earlier -- liverpool has been revived by being a cultural capital, and this has led to a rethinking of the city, played more on culture. i will close on the brexit issue, i will say just one word, i cannot help mentioning it: i think that - as my english colleague said - england has got more than it has given in culture, partly because it has so much cultural wealth. i must say, however, that the preconditions for continuing to participate in creative europe are clear, they are to accept at least the four fundamental freedoms of movement of people, capital, etc. so this is going to be a battle for the british people, not for us.
i thank mr costa, i congratulate him on his work and i congratulate the rapporteurs of all the groups. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 2 march 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by maría teresa giménez barbat, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of council regulation (eu) no 390/2014 of 14 april 2014 establishing a europe for citizens programme for the period 2014-2020 (2015/2329(ini)) (a8-0017/2017).
i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. this programme has worked, this programme has involved citizens, associations who deserved to have a voice and to participate. participation is the key to the salvation of the union and this programme encourages citizens' participation. if i look at the list of funded programmes, i see very positive things in my country: the roma are a large european people of 12 million who are not represented here and who are the target of a series of discriminations. however, i agree with the rapporteur both on the question of insufficient funding and on another very important question, which is the legal basis. it is paradoxical that a programme which aims to involve citizens should limit the role of the european parliament, which is the only key to citizens' participation, by electing representatives. it would therefore be important to change this legal basis and also to enable us to help a better formulation of the objectives, which remains very weak, in some cases clumsily ideological, for example, the equation of criticism of europe with euroscepticism is absurd. the real europeans today can only be very critical.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'europe for the people' would be a highly symbolic programme, since it aims at developing a common sense of european identity and solidarity, but today it must make people reflect on the causes of the loss of credibility of this european union. in addition to the good numbers and the good results that have been achieved over the years, in the part concerning the priority of the programme and among the compromise amendments that have been voted, it is stated: the european parliament has a duty to understand and debate euroscepticism. well, at least there is a need to accept the eurosceptic phenomenon as a fact of the reality in which we live. a prime example, of course, is what is happening today with brexit, which calls into question the existence of a european project. i very much doubt that the eurosceptic phenomenon can be discussed in this way. to make myself clearer, i will use the example of the political reality in my country. the italians have always been counted among the euro-enthusiasts, but in recent years they too have gradually moved away and have begun to look at europe with a growing disillusionment. this has happened for a variety of economic, identity, political reasons and for lack of democratic participation. what is at stake today is the very ability of public institutions to respond to the legitimate questions that citizens put to the political authorities and to the institutions themselves. for this reason, in the report we asked the commission and the member states to strengthen the link between the priorities of the programme in question and all policies, first and foremost social and employment policies. europe has long been seen as a kind of life-saving anchor, but today, without direct participation, we are no longer credible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for her excellent report, which highlights the encouraging results achieved by the europe for citizens programme, including the re-balancing of projects geographically and above all the participation of citizens. that is why, while starting on a positive note, i am speaking to highlight a persistent discrepancy between the concerns that the european union and the member states declare to have about growing populism and anti-europeanism and the choices made so far. the europe for citizens programme, so valuable that it has been described as 'unique in promoting civic engagement among european citizens', continues to receive insufficient funding to allow it to be properly implemented. i therefore fully support the recommendations made, in particular: a more participatory legal basis for the programme and a more appropriate financial allocation. at the political level, the financial allocation is a measure of the degree of importance actually attached to the programme.
mr president, i want to give my full support to this report, and i am very pleased that the european union's agenda is not only about protecting human rights everywhere in the world, but also about protecting the rights of wild animals and wild plants. this is a very important issue indeed and i am very pleased that part of our trade policy is to be about how to protect more plants and animals. i am in the czech republic dealing with so-called dog breeding, that is, the illegal breeding of pets, dogs and cats, and i am dealing with the smuggling and export of these animals to other countries of the european union. i have to say that according to some reports, the so-called zoo business, the zoo mafia, is the third most lucrative form of organized crime, next to prostitution and next to narcotics and drug trafficking. so this is a very serious problem, the smuggling of species and plants in general, and it's good that the european union is dealing with this. in addition to this material, we should also address the issue of dog breeding and the problems of pets being smuggled freely without clear rules across the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the illegal trade in wildlife has in fact become one of the most profitable criminal activities in the world, with an estimated total value of between 8 and 20 billion euros per year. the union's action must focus first on the problem of corruption, which is one of the main drivers of the illegal trade in wildlife. current and future negotiations on trade agreements must consider all possible measures related to trade, both legal and illegal, in wildlife, starting with the introduction of anti-corruption provisions in future free trade agreements. it is also necessary to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated to capacity-building measures. the union should aim to support training in producer countries not only of customs and crime-fighting authorities but also of producer associations, cooperatives and social enterprises, which enable local communities to benefit from legal sustainable trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thirty seconds: i would ask you and through you president tajani to publicly express your personal and institutional condemnation of the statements made yesterday by mr korwin-mikke. we cannot allow these shameful statements against fundamental principles such as gender equality on which the european union is founded to be tolerated by the house of europeans. certain statements cannot go unpunished and we therefore call on president tajani to take action. on behalf of the socialists in europe, i would like to express our strongest condemnation and reiterate our support for equality between men and women and against all forms of gender discrimination. for our part, let it be clear, we will never take a step backwards in the struggle for rights and equality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day because parliament has expressed its desire to give greater support to culture, which europe needs very much, as a means of producing value, as a means of cultural integration, but also as a great force for innovation, especially for young people. i would like to say that in the excitement of the moment, my machine didn't work and it didn't register my vote in favour, of course. i mean, when i pressed the button, it didn't ring. there must have been some special circumstance, so i'd like you to record my vote in favor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments between member states and third countries in the energy sector could be a step forward in ensuring legal transparency on past and future agreements. this instrument should facilitate and promote forms of coordination between producer countries, transit countries and consumer countries, but it could also make it possible to take giant steps towards involving the populations affected by the effects of these agreements, particularly with regard to the construction of infrastructures which also have an impact on the environment, such as gas pipelines, oil pipelines and regasifiers. the information exchange mechanism should also be based on the legal significance of the correct application of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, the purpose of which is to guarantee citizens the right to transparency and participation in local, national and crossborder decision-making processes concerning the environment and therefore also the infrastructures already mentioned, in essence, legal assessments are welcome, without omitting any aspect. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pharmaceutical industry has two important rights: the right to intellectual property and the right to health and care. but public and private interests are at odds, there is competition from products coming from the united states and asia, huge economic profits, and it has a profound effect on the real suffering of people. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of medicines, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take this into account in its future work. the european union must reverse the trend in prices of new medicines over the past few years: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's pharmaceutical industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, access to medicines is a human right, as it is enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights. however, the high costs - including of life-saving medicines - and the austerity policies that have hit the health sector, excluding millions of citizens from medical care, as happened in greece and spain, have deprived many european citizens of the possibility of accessing essential healthcare and medicines. in addition, there is a tendency to significantly reduce the requirements on pharmaceutical companies for the evidence to be provided for the approval of new medicines with more restricted testing, regulatory authorities not always independent of the influence or financing of companies and facilitated routes for marketing of medicines. the logic of commercialism is thus dominant, and the citizen is considered a consumer rather than a subject whose right to health must be protected as a matter of priority. this right should be protected, not only in terms of access and a better approach for the patient, but also in terms of the choice of instruments, standards, approaches, therapies and even alternative medicines, which should also be guaranteed. that is why i am voting in favour.
i have supported this report, mr president, but i would add that pharmaceutical policy is a matter for the member states. i'm not in favour of us passing some new legislation and regulating this industry. if colleagues here talk about some countries not being able to afford medicines, then it's a problem of those particular countries. it's hard for the european union to solve. on the other hand, and i regard this as a positive factor, i think that the european union can support and strengthen research into some of the more demanding medicines which are either not commercially attractive or for which there is not enough money for individual research in individual countries. i think it makes sense to concentrate funds at european level and to support research and development of certain medicines. that is what i consider to be the added value of this report, and that is why i supported it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the years to come, health systems in the european union will have to face major challenges such as the ageing of the population, the increasing burden of chronic diseases, the significant cost of developing new technologies, the effects of the economic crisis on health expenditure. healthcare is a fundamental right of european citizens, but insufficient access to essential medicines and high prices of innovative medicines pose a serious threat to the sustainability of national healthcare systems. in addition, there is a poor link between clinical needs and research, patent rules, budgetary constraints, unjustified administrative procedures, long intervals between marketing authorizations. the increase in pharmaceutical expenditure, as well as the asymmetries observed in the ability of pharmaceutical companies to negotiate prices with the member states, therefore require the strengthening of european cooperation and the adoption of new measures to ensure that all european citizens have easier access to medicines, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a simple sentence the rapporteur, mrs costa, whom i thank, expresses clearly and succinctly the situation of the creative europe programme which is suffering - as mrs costa says - from its own success. in short, too many questions, too many projects, too many expectations, too much commitment, for such a limited budget. sometimes projects are excluded by only one zero percent, too many projects are submitted, and that is something to be glad about. through the creative europe programme, european citizens are showing their liveliness and imagination. only 15% of projects are funded, but and this is the percentage is likely to discourage the contenders: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources. there are not many other sources of funding for culture. i therefore join my colleague in her appeal and hope that in the next budget there will be more room for those who build europe with ideas rather than with numbers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today's resolution is going in the right direction, namely to ensure that we can implement this programme in the best possible way, a programme which guarantees the possibility of transferring the competitive advantage of our europe to all the territories and of ensuring that this competitive advantage, in an increasingly globalised world, gives our companies an extra chance, based on culture, innovation and above all on the great heritage of history we have, a heritage which is unique in the world and which makes us increasingly competitive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 'europe for citizens' project reached record numbers in the period 2007-2013, with 7 million direct participants and over 400 civil society organisations involved. if the aim was to bring the european union closer to its citizens, the result was extremely encouraging. in the light of the restructuring of the programme and with a view to making it even more effective, i believe that the funding of projects aimed at creating a european memory must feed more directly into the aspirations and values of the new generations. if europe is being called into question today, it is precisely because its greatness has not been fully told. the history that unites us - that unites us all, even in this house - should not be used merely as a warning and should not be reduced to a series of dramas and conflicts, its value lies in experience and dialogue between generations. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
declaration on the resumption of the session of the european parliament adjourned on 2 march 2017.
before we begin the sitting, i would like to express my condolences and my closeness to the families of the victims of the guatemalan people, following the tragedy caused by a fire that broke out last wednesday in a shelter for orphans of violence in san josé pinula. we are awaiting the outcome of the investigation to find out the causes of this event and any responsibility. of course, these children and adolescents should have been better protected. as you know, last week we celebrated women's day. i have insisted that this celebration should not be just a rhetorical occasion and that as long as women continue to be victims of violence, discrimination, forced marriages, exclusion from the world of work, politics or positions of responsibility, we will have to fight every day of the year to assert respect for their fundamental rights. at the special meeting of the femm commission, i stressed that the great challenges facing the world - terrorism, radicalisation, poverty and unemployment - cannot be met without genuine gender equality. i met lamiya aji bashar and hauwa ibrahim, two women who won our sakharov prize; i have reiterated our commitment to support their action, but their courage and their history must also make us responsible if the union is to remain a beacon of human rights in the world. we therefore call for a collective effort by the member states and the european institutions themselves to ratify and implement the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. i am proud to be the president of an institution that makes its voice heard every day loud and clear on women's rights. but here in the european parliament a few days ago we witnessed a very serious episode: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. it has offended all women, violating our founding values, and it has done so more than ever while a woman was president, as part of a discussion on the gender pay gap. i do not intend to tolerate such behaviour (applause), which is all the more serious because it is being expressed by those who should represent the peoples of europe with dignity. as president of this parliament, i want to apologise to all my colleagues, to all the women who work in this institution, to the guests and to all the women, for these extremely offensive statements. as soon as the investigation procedure i have initiated is completed, i will announce the sanction which will be appropriate to the gravity of the statements made in this chamber. (applause) i would like to thank
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on 9 march 2017. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda. thursdays: the debate on 'sudan: the cases of hassan abduraheem and abdulmonen abdumawla' is replaced by the debate on 'zimbabwe, the case of pastor evan mawarire'. the agenda is thus altered. monday: i have received a request from the europe of nations and freedoms group to add a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy on the wikileaks revelations on the hacking tools used by the cia; the council is therefore extending the sitting until 1 p.m.
mr von storch: i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the decision on the title is taken by the conference of heads of group and the chairman of his group has attended all meetings. so you know what the subject is. mr winberg, i have to ask you this. there are deadlines for requesting changes and your request is out of time. tuesday: the group of the european united left/nordic green left requested that a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the ongoing demolitions of palestinian homes and structures be added as the third item on the afternoon agenda, following the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the union's priorities for the un human rights council sessions in 2017. the debate will conclude with a resolution.
mr loones, the rules are the rules.
thank you for the advice. (the order of business is as follows)
the proposal from the group of the european people's party was longer than allowed and, as you know, the alternative proposal must be shorter than the original proposal. our services, as always, informed the epp group and the text was reduced. i therefore consider this document to be admissible, since it is only a technical problem linked to the length of the text and not to the content or to the breach of the rules. i repeat, it was a purely technical matter. the services have already solved the problem.
the agenda includes the report by mr stefan eck, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on mercury repealing regulation (ec) no 1102/2008 (com ((2016) 0039 - c8-0021/2016 - 2016/0023 ((cod)) (a8-0313/2016)).
member of the commission. – mr president, mercury is a pollutant of global concern that enters the food chain where it accumulates, mainly in fish. the eu’s mercury policy is the most advanced worldwide, but 40-80% of the mercury deposited in the eu comes from other parts of the globe. that is why we called for global action and took on a leading role in the negotiations of the minamata convention on mercury. the convention, which was signed at the end of 2013, is to a great extent inspired by eu legislation, so it requires only limited changes to the eu acquis. consequently, the new mercury regulation aims primarily at fine-tuning eu law so as to ensure full compliance with all provisions of the minamata convention and enable its ratification by the eu and the member states. we expect that ratification by the eu and those member states that have completed their required national procedures will take place before the end of june. this should trigger the entry into force of the convention, taking us a major step closer to a safer, healthier mercury-free society. as top mercury-polluters take action to implement the convention, we expect a dramatic drop of mercury emissions to air and water worldwide, leading to reduced exposure to mercury within the eu. the entry into force of the minamata convention will help level the playing field, as all major economies will apply requirements similar to those already applying in the eu on products, industrial processes and waste management. in turn, this will support the eu’s innovative eco-industry, which will be able to make the most of their technological lead in export markets. furthermore, this regulation is a golden opportunity to complement our already advanced eu acquis with new measures going beyond the minimum of the convention. the commission is very happy that parliament fully supported our proposal to put an end to new uses of mercury in products and industrial processes. this flagship measure demonstrates the eu’s continued global leadership in this policy area. the new regulation will also ensure that all known industrial processes using mercury convert to mercury-free alternatives and that mercury waste is safely start out of reach, thereby avoiding its improper use and release into the environment. finally, the regulation sets out a clear road map for reducing the use of dental amalgam and assessing the feasibility of phasing out its use. i also draw your attention to two statements by the commission that will be appended to the minutes. the first one signals our continued engagement at international level, which will aim at further narrowing the remaining gaps between the level of protection guaranteed by the minamata convention and the stricter requirements that prevail in the eu. our second statement concerns the so-called ‘no opinion clause’ in comitology. the new mercury regulation is undoubtedly a major step forward in the eu acquis. i therefore call upon all of you to express your support for this very good outcome of the informal trilogue process. commission statement on international cooperation on mercury the minamata convention and the new mercury regulation are major contributions to protecting citizens from mercury pollution globally and in the eu. international cooperation should be sustained to ensure successful implementation of the convention by all parties and further strengthen its provisions. the european commission is therefore committed to supporting continued cooperation, in accordance with the convention and subject to applicable eu policies, rules and procedures, inter alia undertaking work in the following areas:narrowing the gap between eu law and the provisions of the convention through the review clause of the list of prohibited mercury-added products; in the context of the provisions of the convention on financing, capacity building and technology transfer, activities such as improving traceability of mercury trade and use, promoting certification of mercury-free artisanal and small-scale gold mining and mercury-free labels for gold, and increasing the capacity of developing countries including in the area of mercury waste management. commission statement on comitology the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation 182/2011 (oj l 55 of 28.2.2011, p. 13) to invoke article 5 § 4, subparagraph 2, point b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established by article 5 § 4 recourse to subparagraph 2, point b), cannot be simply seen as a "discretionary power" of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the environment, but that we should be concerned about the environment. for this reason it is necessary to regulate their uses and movements and to decide in advance how to treat them when they become waste with the aim, where possible, of reducing or eliminating all their uses within a reasonable period of time. this is the logic we followed in the negotiations with the council and the commission, which were concluded last december with a broad consensus, which was then unanimously adopted by the committee on the environment. we hope that tomorrow the text will be adopted definitively without further amendments by the house. this will enable the union to proceed with the ratification of the minamata convention on mercury and to take part in its first conference of the parties scheduled for the end of september in geneva. but neither today's debate nor tomorrow's vote is formal. the text we are bringing to the house, which is the result of the contribution of almost all the political groups, is very different from the commission's initial proposal. i would like to mention just a few: the dental amalgam first. this is currently the first use of mercury in europe and presents several risks to the health of citizens and the environment. for this reason we wanted to see its use completely phased out in a few years' time. we have not succeeded, even with the council's resistance. however, compared with the commission's initial proposal, we have obtained: first, the ban on the use of amalgam for vulnerable populations (pregnant women, breastfeeding women, children under 15 years of age, all baby teeth) as of 1 january 2019; secondly, the development of national plans for the phasing out of amalgam use; third, a commission report by june 2020 on the feasibility of eliminating amalgam altogether. fourth, we have ensured that dental facilities using dental amalgam are equipped with amalgam separators, so that they do not discharge into municipal wastewater. other important changes compared with the initial text have been made to the mercury contaminated sites, which will finally be identified and made public, with the hope that the states can accept a legislative initiative of the union as soon as possible. in addition, we will finally be able to apply the mercury limits set for the internal market to the export of batteries and non-electronic measuring devices, thus overcoming incomprehensible double standards between what we sell within the union and what we export. unfortunately, we have not achieved the same ambition for the export of lamps: however, from 2018 onwards, many of them will be subject to mercury limits lower or equal to those defined under the minamata convention. several manufacturing processes that still use mercury will, thanks to the commitment of the european parliament, have an expiry date and companies will be encouraged to find more environmentally sustainable alternatives. finally, the waste. again, the contribution was significant, they will be solidified and put in safe places.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting with the scientific data. exposure to mercury has a negative impact on the nervous system, digestive system, respiratory system, kidneys, skin and eyes. mercury has also been identified as a contributor to alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis and brain damage in general. we also know that, when dispersed in the environment, it can be converted into a more complex and harmful compound, methylmercury, which also has the ability to cross the placental barrier, inhibiting the mental development of babies before they're born. furthermore, the world health organization has made it clear that its toxicity is limitless, so that even very small doses can cause serious harm to health. but despite this, the world's use of mercury remains high - some 3 600 tonnes a year - and the pollution it causes knows no borders. we support mr eck's report, which responds to these health needs of the citizens, and we have also proposed a two-line amendment, which will enable us to avoid dumping 75 tonnes of mercury into our seas from dental fillings which are still used in some countries of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the widespread use of mercury throughout the world raises serious health and environmental problems. since the industrial revolution, the amount of mercury in the sea has tripled because of man's polluting activities, and there are many diseases linked to exposure to and ingestion of mercury, with very serious complications for the brain, lungs, kidneys and immune system. the text we are going to approve will integrate into a single legal act the obligations arising from the minamata convention, which have not yet been transposed into eu law, and will allow the union to take part in its first conference scheduled for geneva. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of mercury in dental amalgams for children under 15 and for women who are breastfeeding, and to ban mercury altogether from dental amalgams by 2022. the world would have needed a more ambitious approach from the union to the minamata process.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march 2017.
the agenda includes the report by sergio gaetano cofferati, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2007/36/ec as regards the encouragement of long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the report on corporate governance (com (2014) 0213 - c7-0147/2014 - 2014/0121 (cod)) (a8-0158/2015)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow we shall be voting in the house on the agreement reached in the trilogue held over the past few months. i believe that the text we have adopted has strong positive elements and objectively represents a very important step forward in the legal definition of corporate governance in the european union. the debate was very long the commission's text was presented three years ago it took all this time to reach a solution which was widely agreed upon because of the sensitivity of the subject and the elements of different legislation we had to deal with: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this would not have been possible without the support of parliament's secretariat and the commitment of many of my colleagues, starting with olle ludvigsson who was the rapporteur for the econ committee. i also thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various political groups, with whom we have had sometimes lively discussions, but who have followed this dossier with competence and a great sense of responsibility. now, this positive result will allow us to take further steps forward. the objective was very simple to describe, a little more complex and difficult to achieve. we had to and still have to move away from a situation where companies and their managers often invest for short-term returns, for personal gain that does not correspond to the interests of the community. for this reason it is important to encourage the exact opposite: to give transparency to all that investors need and to get companies to make choices that guarantee a profit for them, but above all benefits for the community looking at the medium and long term. this was the logic that jacques delors had introduced with the 1993 white paper: we have taken this logic and this text of great cultural as well as economic value as a reference. there are a few points i would like to make quickly: stricter controls and full transparency on the remuneration of directors of listed companies, starting with the so-called say-on-pay, i.e. the shareholder vote on the directors' remuneration policy and the annual report on its implementation; the same transparency for institutional investors and asset managers, which will help to steer the action of these actors towards a more targeted approach to medium and long-term returns; the transparency requirements, a key element of the directive, including for proxy advisors; and then the right for companies to identify their shareholders. finally, transparency and control in relation to transactions with related parties. everything that can be seen and interpreted is a great advantage, both for those who decide to invest and for those who will benefit from the positive effects of these enterprises. there's one last thing i'd like to quickly point out: we have introduced the rules on country-by-country reporting into the text in committee. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i think it 's fair . we have made this joint effort, this responsible choice, to give the regulatory system this advantage as well. the conclusion will be close and i hope also positive as regards this additional element of a sound fiscal policy in europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transparency, control and sustainability. these are the key words of the reform of company law we are discussing today. it is very important in our view that the remuneration of the managers of listed companies should be subject to the control of the shareholders' meeting which, among other things, will be able to formulate its assessments, taking into account not only the long-term performance of the company but also the undertakings made in the area of the company's social responsibility. this, together with other provisions on transparency measures for institutional investors and asset managers, who will have to undertake to describe their relationship with the companies in which they invest, will only increase the commitment and long-term sustainability of equity investment in this type of company. it is regrettable that the compromise reached at the trilogue provided for the breakdown of country-by-country reporting: but we are convinced that the excellent work of parliament's negotiating team has really prompted the commission to put forward an ad hoc proposal for a directive, which we hope will be adopted as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached on the directive is an important step forward on the subject of corporate governance. after two years of negotiations, we have european legislation which, for the first time, does not simply name shareholders but recognises the role of workers and other stakeholders, ensures controls and provides for shareholders' voting on the remuneration policy of directors of listed companies, also on the basis of performance and taking into account corporate social responsibility, and introduces greater transparency on social and environmental impacts. it is a pity, of course, that the country-by-country reporting part has not been completed, but it is precisely thanks to the efforts of parliament and the rapporteur that the commission has finally put forward a specific proposal on this subject. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: so it needs to be improved and approved as soon as possible to really fight tax evasion and tax avoidance globally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main shortcomings of corporate governance in europe are the lack of shareholder participation and the lack of adequate transparency. over-focusing on high short-term returns leads to shortcomings in planning, under-investment and sub-optimal results in the medium and long term. i am in favour of introducing a modern and efficient corporate governance framework for european companies, investors and employees, which at the same time gives minority shareholders a more transparent and influential role. the activities of large companies, their profits, taxes paid and subsidies received need to be made more transparent. if investors are more involved and their commitment is oriented towards the medium and long term, end users, institutional investors and the companies themselves will benefit. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr cofferati, on his excellent work and i agree with him that the vote tomorrow will certainly not solve the problem but it certainly represents a reasonable step forward in the right direction.
member of the commission. – mr president, the debate has shown that we all share an understanding of the main goals of this directive, namely more transparency and more investor responsibility so that investors and directors consider the long-term consequences of their actions and also ensure the sustainability of eu capital markets. the debate also showed that we are in agreement that the directive contains the way in which this should be implemented in an efficient and proportionate way. so i would like to thank you for the positive debate you had here and i strongly encourage you to adopt the compromise text tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues and the commissioner for the comments and for the very broad support for the proposal we have drawn up together. the time was long but that was because the merit was complex: we had to discuss this with the luxembourg presidency, then the dutch presidency, then the slovak presidency before we finally reached agreement on the maltese presidency. this is a long way of saying how complex the set of issues we had to deal with was. i would just like to emphasize a few things quickly. i think that the political and institutional system should not work to impose restrictive constraints on businesses. i think that the text we are going to adopt tomorrow, and i hope that it will be, is very clear, and i also believe that managers should be helped to adopt positive behaviour in their companies, and not to engage in financial speculation, as has happened so often, at the expense of the capital invested and the people who work in those companies. i would also like to reassure the honourable member who is afraid that politics may also decide on the remuneration of actors and singers. it is not so, at least in this text: policy does not decide; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the function of policy is therefore a precise one, but it is also a positive one if the conclusions are those which are in the written text. the last point concerns country-by-country reporting: i think it is right that we do not have the reporting solution in this text and that its placement in the text of the new directive is the best thing. but let us be quite frank, when we started the debate, that commission text was not there and if we had not discussed it among ourselves, even animatedly, the new commission proposal would not have been born. we have achieved a result also thanks to a sense of balance, which did not involve breaking things but a little courage and a little determination, which were not lacking in the relationship between all the speakers, starting with the shadow speakers.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work, but if i may, i would like to take this opportunity to address a few words to all those who share the views of our now infamous polish colleague. i know they're not in here, and i hope there's very, very few of them out there. so i'd like to say to these people, you know who discovered the higgs boson in 2012, the so-called god particle? it was a woman, an italian physicist: her name is fabiola gianotti. and you know who the world's greatest stem cell researcher is? it's the italian researcher elena cattaneo. i come from the abruzzo region, home to the laboratories of the gran sasso of the national institute of nuclear physics. and you know who runs these world-famous labs? the physics of lucia votano. my dear colleagues, we women are proving our worth, our ability and our competence more and more every day and are therefore demanding equal economic treatment, both during working life and in retirement. and anyone who thinks that women are inferior to men in any way is right about one thing: because no woman, unlike a man, would ever descend to such a low level of human evolution with our colleague's assertions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reports we are discussing today are the result of intensive and important work, and i thank all the rapporteurs very much for this. i would like to thank in particular mr urtasun, with whom i have had the opportunity to work more closely as the shadow rapporteur on his report. the statistics which the commission has presented for the 14-15 period are not, ladies and gentlemen, very encouraging. the data are improving, of course, but they are improving too slowly, and besides, it is not just statistics that are needed to tell us how things change so slowly. we don't need statistics to tell us how hard it is to still be a woman. this is what our daily lives tell us, the daily lives of our friends, our sisters, our fellow citizens and the women we meet every day on our way. it's also what our lives tell us here, when we hear violent words, unacceptable words, shameful words, that we heard a while ago. and so we are aware, today more than ever, that the work we have to do, that the road to full equality is still a long road, it is still a winding road. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. i am thinking, for example, of the rights to sexual and reproductive health which are still denied today, ladies and gentlemen. so the things we've said are all important things, you've said a lot of meaningful things. but i want to remember the last, the last important thing: the achievement of full equality between men and women cannot be achieved without a real and genuine fight against gender-based violence, which still seems to be a virus taking on new forms today. i think about social media violence and bullying. i mean, there's still a lot of work to be done, but we're here, folks, and we're ready to do it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunities offered by big data are only founded on the protection of fundamental rights, compliance with data production legislation and legal certainty. these principles informed many of my questions, in which i asked first of all for the protection of fundamental rights in public services and for the disabled and for reducing disparities in treatment. i believe that the challenges here in the european parliament were three-fold a year ago: first, the ethical and moral questions associated with medical science for using big data with awareness and caution, as it is able to create artificial intelligence and applied to neuroscience. secondly, the regulation of the flow associated with the use of devices that exploit big data with privacy aspects really at risk. third, security against cybercrime, which plays on the unclear distinction between sensitive and non-sensitive data and emphasises the non-intentionality of data release. i therefore support the report which expresses a state of great caution and caution.
i would like to endorse this report, mr president, and thus give it my full support here, because i am glad that the european parliament is addressing the issue of other living species and the welfare of animals, alongside the protection of human rights. and i'm very glad that we're addressing the issue of rabbit welfare here. i want to make a general statement that any cage farming for any species of animal is very inhumane and we should do our utmost to ensure that cage farming in europe ends. i therefore support this report and it seems logical to me, as the rapporteur has already said, that if we have banned certain cage breeding, for example in chickens, then something similar should be done in rabbits. in my country, the czech republic, we are currently debating the ban on cage-farming for fur animals, such as foxes and mink, and this is causing a great deal of emotion, and i would very much like to see this subject discussed here in the future. so animal welfare is an important issue for european civilization, and i support that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the commission, in view of the high number of rabbits raised and slaughtered in the european union and the serious animal welfare implications of the current breeding systems, should come forward as soon as possible with legislative proposals to phase out battery cages throughout the european union. the specific diseases and high mortality rate due to the appalling conditions in which rabbits are kept have often necessitated massive and widespread preventive administration of antibiotics, making rabbit farming in its present form problematic for human health as well. the systematic use of drugs to compensate for the inadequate environmental and health conditions of intensive farming should be prohibited and other types of rabbit breeding such as park systems, improved terrestrial breeding and organic breeding should be promoted. these alternatives to intensive cage farming would not only ensure animal welfare but also reduce the use of antibiotics and the consequent spread of antimicrobial resistance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs girling on her excellent report. i'm going to address an aspect that's a little bit different than the animal welfare aspect, which has already been well-reported: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. although equine meat is considered to be of particular value, in some countries it is sold at prices much lower than those of beef, creating favourable conditions for fraud to the detriment of european consumers. the same can be said for equine milk. the conditions of farms producing equine milk often vary enormously and the levels of control are not comparable to those of farms producing other types of milk. in addition, the rules governing the treatment of equine milk are unclear and there are no common standards in the union for inspection and supervision. we must not forget the horse meat scandal and other cases of food fraud which we have already recorded. to improve transparency and safety at all stages of the food chain, it is essential to require that the indication... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to denounce an emergency: there is a serious environmental contamination taking place to the detriment of the citizens of alexandria and the province. the piedmont environment agency has detected concentrations of 305 000 asbestos fibres per litre in groundwater near the city. that water gets to our citizens and could be used for cooking or for personal hygiene, thus transferring the very dangerous fibers from the water to the air. even breathing in a single fiber can be deadly, and similarly, harm from ingestion is not excluded, as some recent studies show. where does the asbestos found in the groundwater come from? it's probably from asbestos-contaminated earth from the huge construction known as the third passage, crammed into the quarries on the outskirts of alexandria. we shall therefore submit another written question to the european commission and support our colleagues and the people of alexandria in their efforts to obtain truth and justice. someone is trying to turn alessandra into the new land of fire: but we won't allow it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food sector is growing and is often a prime area for investment in the underworld, with dangerous impacts on the health of citizens and the environment. in italy, the agromafia represents a turnover of about 150 billion a year: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the sector. i wanted to draw attention to this issue to remind you, on the eve of the presentation of the fifth report on agri-food crime in italy, that all the institutions are called upon to raise the threshold of attention to this phenomenon. legislation needs to be up to date, taking into account fast-growing phenomena such as online sales and the current international export system. the mafia is evolving and its forms, more and more evolved, must be fought with all means.
i think that the solution we have reached is very important and very positive. i'm going to say it out loud. we worked very hard and very hard, because the starting conditions were not the best possible. the previous directive was an old one, which left important regulatory gaps. the technical solutions adopted in the individual countries and the culture of the relationship between citizens and arms are very different, and it was a matter of bringing these two conditions closer together, of finding points of balance between them. finally, i would like to say, commissioner, that you have no responsibility - you were not there at the time - but the commission's proposal was a very bad proposal, very approximate and above all it had the political error in itself of combining the idea of amending the directive with the fight against terrorism, which are two very different things. we put some order back into what was there and it had the approximate feature i was commenting on earlier. we have given certainty to people who were unjustly worried - i think of the hunters, i think of the sport shooters - who felt attacked, attacked: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. we have also created the conditions for the market to be a regulated market and therefore not to be a market which is conducive to counterfeiting, let alone to the illicit purchase of dangerous weapons under other disguises. the things you have mentioned are all true, including the difficulties we had in the final stage with regard to the trilogue. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the conversion of demilitarised automatic weapons has also been brought under control, and rightly so. then we made some exceptions, including the finnish defence system, for example, which did not deserve to be involved in any way. we have introduced marking and also the cartridge-fired weapons, if they come from the conversion of real weapons, will fall within the scope of the directive. i mean, we've got it all back together. we have done this patiently, without instrumentalisation and without demagoguery, and i consider this a very important starting point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, introducing limits on the acquisition of arms and at the same time protecting those who lawfully possess them is not a simple solution but it is important to strengthen security. the amendment to the directive which we are voting on tomorrow aims to fill the gaps in the existing legislation and to raise the level of safety for european citizens, focusing on measures to prevent the sale of legal firearms on the black market and to prevent massacres, suicides, murders and accidents with firearms. the directive does not affect the application of national provisions relating to the carrying of weapons or to the regulation of hunting and shooting sports. certainly more could have been done. i think it would have been better if the commission had submitted an impact assessment in advance to enable this parliament to have a better say and if it had also focused attention on the problem of illegal weapons, organised crime and related terrorist activity, which are other, much more serious types of weapons-related problems.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the close work they have done in recent months and above all for the atmosphere of cooperation which has enabled us to proceed to the adoption of more than a hundred compromises on some two thousand amendments, by a large majority in the envi committee, on a sensitive and important dossier. the package we are about to discuss and vote on today is only formally amending four waste directives. but i think it would be absolutely reductive to relegate it to the realm of environmental policy or waste policy. i think that what we have before us today is, in effect, a package which poses a very profound challenge to us, which is the challenge of setting up a new sustainable industrial model, that is to say, of making sure that environmental sustainability can be considered one of the levers of the competitiveness of our economic system. because we have to acknowledge that the current linear development model is showing all its limits: it's an inefficient model of development, it's an expensive model of development, it's a model of development that is no longer producing well-being for our citizens and that is over-exploiting the resources of the planet. so, we have the opportunity today to get out of this crisis and move towards the transition to a circular economy which, if you look closely, means not only recovering raw materials from waste but also inserting a virtuous circle such that value is created throughout the life cycle of a product. in short, this means more sustainable growth, it means jobs, it means, as i said earlier, boosting competitiveness, it also means focusing on innovation and new technologies and thus opening up our economic system to new opportunities. of course, to do this we need clear regulation, which encourages investment and ambitious policies. there are many things i would like to say about this package but i will limit myself to the most essential. i must say that we started with a good proposal from the commission, but we have improved it in two main ways: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the raw materials it uses. why start with prevention? not only because waste prevention is the first level of the waste hierarchy, but because, in our view, waste prevention is a clear indicator of how much we are moving towards a circular economy. let me explain: to produce less waste means to have set in motion all those innovations in production processes, products, business models that tell us how far we are moving towards a circular economy system. i would like to mention among the preventive measures the clearest definition of end of waste or by-products, the minimum requirements of extended producer responsibility, specific measures throughout the product's useful life such as reuse and planned obsolescence, but also, mr president, two ambitious but very important targets: the first is the 50% reduction in food waste, which is not only an environmental policy measure but also an ethical issue, and the second is the 50% reduction in marine litter, which, i recall, are two objectives of the united nations' osh, but which were not provided for in european legislation and we have filled this void. as regards the development of the secondary raw materials market, i would like to recall the targets we have set for recycling and reducing landfilling, which are ambitious but, i must say, also very pragmatic, in line with the commission's previous proposal but also in line with the conclusions of the commission's own 2014 impact assessment. clearly, the prerequisite for an efficient market in secondary raw materials of high quality is high quality separate collection, which we have also extended to the compulsory collection of organic and textile waste. we are talking about 7% of total waste and it is clear that we must close the loop by including industrial and commercial waste. we must not hide the fact that we are facing a challenge which requires a profound paradigm shift and the involvement of all actors, not only the institutions but also businesses and consumers. but i am convinced that parliament will rise to the challenge with the proposal we are voting on today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support this package of legislation as approved by the committee on the environment because it improves the present situation, by introducing more ambitious targets on recycling, more ambitious targets on preparing for reuse and also more restrictions on incineration, as well as on landfilling. we would have liked to see more courageous and concrete action, such as a total ban on the incineration of waste. more bold and concrete actions, such as the elimination of all possible subsidies to fossil fuels, because that would be the only real way to achieve a transition to a truly circular economy. if we don't do these simple things, we're talking about nothing. that is why we have tabled amendments to the text on these two subjects, and we have tabled them even though we know that the majority of this house will not vote for them, because the incineration lobbies and the oil industry lobbies are still too strong in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is bothersome, it is a hindrance, it is expensive. this is the picture that is being painted outside these buildings by the people, by the citizens, of the european union. and why is this europe so often portrayed as such? because they do not find in the measures the application of the logic of reason, that is, the logic which should provide, in these measures, that the interests of the people, of those who elected us, of those who, above all, pay us, are taken into account. and in this measure, on which i am being questioned and measured, there is nothing that serves the interests of citizens, families, businesses and, above all, the real world. what would the real world expect from this arrangement? simplification of procedures and above all reduction of costs. instead, as in italy, we have a waste tax which has increased by 400% in less than three years, at least in some cases for artisans, traders and households. such a measure should have reduced the cost of the waste tax. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. what i can confirm is that the labyrinths of this material are increasing and, as a result, the costs for artisans, traders and families will increase: that's the theme. a measure of this kind, over 230 pages long, had to have an ambitious theme, a vital theme, of survival for families and for businesses: reducing the costs of the waste tax. unfortunately, there is no trace of such an ambitious project, which would justify the existence of this europe, in this volume.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the only way out of the crisis we are experiencing is to promote a new model of development. we need to grow but in a different way, smarter, more respectful of the environment and people. every year in the european union, some 90 million tonnes of food are wasted: 170 kilos each. food waste is a scandal. with the circular economy, we set ourselves the target of reducing it by 50% by 2030. what do you mean, "what"? the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. through education against waste and waste prevention actions along the entire production chain; by encouraging, through tax incentives, a clearer regulatory framework; and the feeding of the needy. enough of the diy and the disposable. a serious policy against food waste can create new and good jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transition from a linear economy to a circular economy is a necessity for modern society, not a choice. today, it takes the earth a year and a half to regenerate the resources that we extract and use in a year. the revision of the directives we are discussing today is only a first step in pushing society to reinvent its way of life and thus to devise a new production system in which products are designed to last and can be repaired, reused, recycled, regenerated and in which harmful synthetic or fossil-based components are replaced by biological alternatives. it is essential to pursue an industrial transition towards an economic system which takes the environment first. a 30% improvement in resource productivity by 2030 would translate, for example, into a 1% increase in gdp, create more than two million new jobs and put us on a virtuous path, more resource efficient and more beneficial for the related ecological, economic and social benefits.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members very much for this inspiring debate. our waste package is part of our circular economy package and the circular economy package is part of a much broader societal change leading to a sustainable society. part of that is a sustainable economy, sustainable social systems and a sustainable environment. sometimes in our work it is nice to do things, but here it is necessary to do things. i maintain that the longer we wait with the waste package and the less ambitious we are with the waste package, the higher the cost will be. we need to make this transition anyway, so we had better do it quickly. it is my true belief – and i have been around for a couple of decades – that, if europe takes the lead – even if it makes ambitious choices – the rest of the world will follow. we saw it with the norms we had in the internal market and we will see it with the norms we have on waste. i am absolutely sure about this. those countries that are worried because they are lagging behind should actually be comforted by the fact that, if you are lagging behind, the changes that you make will have an even greater impact than the changes made by countries which are leading. by the way, efsi funds are available for investment in this, so, if you make the investment, the gains will be huge and you will make the transition to a sustainable economy more quickly than others. we are simplifying things because we are reducing four methodologies into one methodology, which creates clarity for everyone involved. finally, let me say this: in the approach that we have chosen, we have been inclusive from the start. this is the first time that i can see that everybody who is a stakeholder in this is on board. sadly, in this peculiar world of ours, it takes three to tango, as we know. now, after you have voted, parliament and the commission will have to confront the council and make sure that we get member states and the council on board for an ambitious plan, but again i think that the commission’s proposals are the best basis for this. i applaud parliament for being more ambitious. the more ambition we can get through with the council, the better it works. we will try to do this together with you in the next couple of months. (applause)
the rapporteur. in the minute i have, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken and who have highlighted the many issues in this package and also the problems which are still open. i am not unaware of the differences in the waste management systems of the member states and i want to say loud and clear that no country should be left behind. in this respect i am pleased that vice-president timmermans has mentioned the importance of the efsi. but to those who say that we are going to increase the costs of the bill for the citizens, mr president, i would like to reply that those who profess to be sovereignists should know that we do not decide the tariffs here but the member states decide them, indeed the municipalities decide them. and i would also like to point out that it is by increasing recycling that we are making available to the market quality secondary raw materials which are profitable and which really help to reduce the cost of the bill for the citizens. finally, i welcome the words of vice-president timmermans, whom i see as a hand outstretched for the next steps and i am convinced that we could do a good job in the trilogue.
before i turn to the communication, i give the floor to mr dartmouth.
thanks for the tip. this is not the session to discuss brexit. there will be long and important discussions on this subject. i say we move on to today's work.
i have decided to impose a sanction on mr korwin-mikke for the remarks he made on women during the plenary sitting of 1 march 2017 in the course of the debate on the gender pay gap, chaired by a woman, vice-president gebhardt. (applause)i consider that these remarks constituted a violation of the principle laid down in rule 11 of our internal rules of procedure. therefore, in accordance with rule 166 of the rules of procedure, and having taken note of the written observation that mr korwin-mikke has submitted, i have decided to impose the following penalties. the first: a forfeiture of his entitlement to the daily allowances for a period of 30 days. additionally, without prejudice to the right to vote in plenary, the temporary suspension from participation in all the activities of parliament for a period of 10 days starting from today. furthermore, mr korwin-mikke is prohibited from representing parliament on any interparliamentary delegations, interparliamentary conferences or any interinstitutional forums for a period of one year starting from today. (applause)the decision has been communicated to the member concerned.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to rule 59 (3) and (4) of the rules of procedure, and with the aim that the provisional agreement reached...'sorry, shut up...fuck you', addressing another member without a microphone...with the aim that the provisional agreement reached with the council takes account of the wish of european citizens to eliminate a very dangerous substance such as mercury from dental fillings... "can you speak more slowly for the interpreters, please? could you speak more slowly for translation?") the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's position on the draft legislative act is not affected by the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to mercury.
we'll listen to the recording and then of course the procedure will begin.
the rapporteur. mr president, in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, i propose that the matter be referred to the committee responsible for opening the interinstitutional negotiations.
the rapporteur. mr president, i propose that the matter be referred back to the committee responsible for opening the interinstitutional negotiations, in accordance with rule 59 (4).
the rapporteur. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the rapporteur. mr president, for the last time, again in accordance with rule 59 (4), i propose that the matter be referred to the committee responsible for opening the interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because the equine sector is a great asset in rural areas. for example, horses are a key part of farms, but their use is also growing in other sectors, other than traditional agriculture and sport. horses are increasingly used in tourism and in the training sector, for example, they are animals with extraordinary abilities for rehabilitation for the disabled, for the education of children, for the training of children with difficulties. however, the presence of horses in increasingly diverse settings exposes them to risks to their health and welfare. i believe that this is why we need an ever-increasing institutional commitment to their protection and control. in my region, sicily, there are important organizations working to increase the number of horses, but at the same time there are very serious cases of exploitation, such as the phenomenon of clandestine races run by the mafia. each state and each region has its own traditions which are right to respect: but it's also right to make horse owners more accountable.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it is absolutely necessary to limit as much as possible the use of a harmful substance such as mercury. for years we have been poisoning ourselves and our citizens with an uncontrolled - i would say unconscious - use of one of the worst pollutants in the world. the results on medical use are very good, but much more needs to be done, because there is still a lot of mercury in the soil and in the water. the european union must intervene to save those areas, such as the so-called triangle of death in sicily, where the petrochemical industries have destroyed the environment and dramatically compromised the health of the citizens. it is essential that, firstly, contaminated sites are identified and treated in an environmentally friendly manner, so as to put an end to the pollution of nature and the exposed populations who are often already suffering the economic consequences of the closure of industries which, by blackmailing them with a monthly salary, have been poisoning them for decades.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank very much the rapporteur, mr ernest urtasun, for the work he has done, including listening to the other groups, and which has brought us to this important final result. we continue to insist that gender equality is one of the guiding principles of the union's fundamental treaties, but unfortunately these guidelines are still largely ignored and we continue to hear, even in this house, speeches which discredit the presence of women. i would like to thank president tajani for the action he has taken today in respect of the member concerned. europe is not a place of self-determination, it is not a place of equality: with eige, who we've been working with for a long time, we have data that tells us how far we are from true gender equality. i think it is important that this parliament should take action to ensure that gender equality is achieved as soon as possible. i think it is also important to listen, to listen to a global movement like "not one less", to listen to the women who went on strike on 8 march and proposed a truly feminist europe free from violence against women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you once again, in justifying my vote in favour of this report, of the importance of 8 march: the global political strike, the strike for productive work, the strike for reproductive work, which has brought women into the streets all over europe, from madrid to rome. i remember the strike precisely because i think it is connected with the themes of this report, a very important report, which tests the maturity of the european institutions when it comes to gender equality and access to goods and services. access to goods and services is not neutral: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet in the health sector. so i think this report is a step forward, but there is still a lot to be done, if it is true that in this european union the gender pay gap is still a plague far from being eradicated.
i'm asking for a blue card. i would like to ask the honourable member whether he considers the right of women to self-determination to be something that the european union should be concerned about, whether he considers the right to self-determination to be something that the united nations has enshrined as a fundamental right, a fundamental human right and a right of women. i would ask you to consider that continuing to deny that women can choose their own bodies has nothing to do with the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the trump administration's shameful attack, a strong commitment by the european union to the protection of women's sexual and reproductive rights is essential. the policies of the us administration not only undermine the union's core principles on gender equality but will have disastrous repercussions on ngos and programmes that promote contraception, prevent the transmission of disease, protect the right to abortion and promote family planning and maternal and child health in developing countries as well. the global gag rule creates a funding shortfall of around $600 million. the global fundraising initiative 'she decides' launched by the dutch minister to counterbalance the effects of the global gag rule deserves the full support of our institutions. it's not enough to be indignant! i would like to ask the member states in particular: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. women have to decide about their own bodies, as we shouted in many of our women's march on march 8th, "my body, my choice!"
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, this debate has already been joined by hundreds of thousands of women who took to the streets on 8 march for the feminist strike, for the world march of women, tearing up that horrible photograph with which president trump, surrounded by men, wanted to decide and wants to decide on the bodies of women. i am truly furious that i have heard in this house today the words of members who want to deny me, a woman, us women, the right to decide about our bodies. i think we need to be clear that this $10 million cut will have a negative impact on the lives of about 460,000 girls, mostly the most vulnerable and poorest girls. i don't think we can afford it. i would also like to remind you that 14 countries in the european union have not yet signed the istanbul convention. we have to distance ourselves from president trump's politics, but we also have a long way to go.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this year, as always, the debate is back on: i would like to mention the case of burundi and what is happening following the third term of president nkurunziza, who has also violated the constitution: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine. i cannot help mentioning the case of western sahara and the judgment of the court of justice, which would certainly encourage us to do more, not just in words but also in deeds. but i would like to emphasize one aspect, which is the formal one, the methodological one, if you will, because even today a system of monitoring fundamental rights at the global level is far from being what it should be: is it possible that the human rights council will continue to elect members from countries that are champions of human rights violations, such as egypt, china and saudi arabia? is it possible that the european countries are not coordinating in this respect? how is it possible to have a country like saudi arabia in this council, which systematically violates rights, suppresses all desire for freedom - including religious freedom - and tramples on women's rights? in our resolution we speak of 'priority actions': i would like to ask my colleagues in this chamber if anyone still remembers raif badawi, who won the sakharov prize last year.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report confirms the european union's submission to the un's ideology of human rights: the european parliament has been a party to the peace process for a long time, and it is not the council that is responsible for this. here we talk about human rights but never about the rights of the people: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what does the un do? what are all these agencies doing that spend two-thirds of their budget not on helping and assisting refugees, etc., but on paying the salaries and luxuries of five-star officials? it is no coincidence that a prominent american columnist called this large wheelbarrow a "humanitarian jet set". and then we see who gets the care: it is a collection of dictatorships, satraps and dictators who are wasteful and corrupt, and we see them coming to europe in big luxury cars, in big hotels, and we are financing all this! what is the un doing to put an end to the most serious tragedy we have before our eyes, the transport of human flesh in the mediterranean: its presence in libya is ghostly; still, there's a lot to do there. why does the un not ask for the international criminal court to intervene against isis, against the killings, also on a cultural level, against the tragedies created by the islamic state: is it because he is afraid or because he is in awe of the countries that are funding him? well, it seems to me that the concern of the un leaders is rather to have the vote, the support and the contributions of all the nations that support it and this money issue seems to me to be a matter that greatly conditions and exposes the hypocrisy of this body which always talks to us about human rights, but then, as happened in rwanda, turns its head the other way and does not intervene. the situation in libya and the trafficking that is going on continuously and uninterruptedly, it just proves my point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of human rights today is one of uncertainty and ambiguity. if we look closely, we can see that the euphoria for human rights still exists, but it is taking on the most hopeful tones in so many places on the planet, where rights are invoked because they do not exist. it becomes disappointment if they are distorted by rampant relativism or by a senseless and guilty political realism and it turns into criticism of human rights when they do not deliver what they promise, because they are hindered in implementation and denied or betrayed by unjust laws. in short, human rights have filled the world, but the world today is finding itself increasingly lacking in rights. we would like to start from here, from this new awareness, from this new approach, looking at the annual appointment of the droi delegation to the united nations human rights council during the spring session. the council document identifies a number of priorities, both thematic and territorial, towards which we should direct greater efforts to improve the situation with regard to respect for human rights. i am thinking of the protection of freedom of religion and worship, and i am thinking in particular of the protection of human rights defenders who play a fundamental role in the social contexts in which they operate and where they are often the victims of intimidation, persecution, threats and detention. i am thinking of the protection of children's rights and gender equality in the framework of the programme for the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and, finally, of the condemnation of terrorism and acts of violence and crimes against humanity by terrorist organisations. as regards migrants and refugees, in accordance with international law and the provisions of the new york declaration of september 2016, the commitment to guarantee refugees the right to asylum must be strongly reaffirmed. the complexity of the field of action described thus calls for strong and united action and i wonder whether the time has not come for the european union to be able to speak with one voice, so that it can play a relevant role at the un table and take forward the most urgent requests, indicate solutions and assume roles of responsibility in the international context on the subject of human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, commissioner. once again this year we are debating the european union's priorities for the annual session of the united nations human rights council, chaired by saudi arabia, where china and other states that are certainly not champions of human rights are voting. among the many noteworthy issues mentioned in the resolution, i would like to emphasize once again the urgent need to intervene in favour of human rights defenders, who are fighting to defend the environment and people from the speculations of governments and multinationals, and who continue to suffer numerous and serious attacks in various parts of the world. it is essential that the european union, the united nations and all international actors show concrete and constant closeness to this category of heroes of our times, who often do their work which should be done instead by the institutions which abandon them. what are we doing, for example, to support them and to support those who are fighting against land grabbing? what are we doing to curb the overpowering power of the multinationals which are devastating the environment, the land and the very lives of entire local populations? we approved a report eight months ago, which i was rapporteur on, which provided for corporate liability for serious human rights violations in third countries. we are waiting for an incipit, something from the commission that has not yet arrived. from the point of view of the nations, we decided not to support this resolution because it was an opportunity to come out strong and decisive against human rights violations by anyone, when in fact it has turned into an opportunity to point the finger at someone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, amnesty international's 2016/2017 report, which analysed the human rights situation in 159 countries, highlights a world that is increasingly divided and dangerous, mainly because of politicians who brandish the deleterious and dehumanizing rhetoric of 'us versus them'. this populist rhetoric has become a dangerous force in world affairs. but in europe too, we have seen a dangerous change in recent years. the case of hungary is emblematic, a member state whose parliament has passed a law requiring that all asylum seekers, including minors, be held for long periods in containers surrounded by high barbed wire fences. europe must be able to reaffirm its commitment to combating racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia, intolerance and any violation of human rights. the founding principles of an open and pluralistic society, in which cultural diversity is promoted in every part of the world, but above all in europe, must be respected and guaranteed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about human rights, we cannot ignore the fact that, at such a complex historical moment, fundamental freedoms, respect for human rights and the rule of law are also at risk in the developed countries, with possible consequences in terms of violation of rights and dangerous fundamentalism. at the next session of the un human rights council, the european union has the opportunity to stress certain human rights priorities: first of all, respect for children's rights, to monitor the extent to which un member states are implementing the sustainable development agenda to halve the number of children living in poverty by 2030. the european union must take the lead in defining an international legally binding framework for business aimed at eliminating malnutrition, violence, child labour and promoting access to education for all children. development cannot and must not be associated with economic variables alone, but on the contrary it is inextricably linked to respect for human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european citizens have long called for reliable, transparent and rigorous controls of the food chain. finally, this regulation provides the union with an integrated, modern and effective control system in the areas of food and feed safety rules, veterinary and phytosanitary requirements, organic production and protected geographical indications. for the first time, the overall framework will also apply to controls to verify compliance with community plant health rules and will provide for a fully integrated system of border controls. the main innovations introduced include a risk-based approach to controls, coverage of the entire food chain, flexibility of controls and a reinforcement of the fight against fraudulent and deceptive practices. the added value of a uniform set of standards at european level will provide national verification authorities with a framework based also on verification activities carried out in another member state and on the reproducibility and technical-scientific validity of the results of the checks. i congratulate the rapporteur.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now more than a year since this parliament, together with our colleagues from taxe, made recommendations to revise the objectives of the code of conduct group. it is astonishing that in 20 years this group has not achieved anything, and has even been rowed against by the indiscretions that have been made about it. so once again, after 20 years, we're asking ourselves what is the only way to move forward on tax issues, on international tax cooperation: it's all a matter of political will. i do not see much political will today because, above all, the representatives of the european union and the eurogroup, namely mr junker and mr dijsselbloem, represent two figures who, over the last twenty years, have pursued policies which we consider immoral towards other countries. i would like to know whether you do not think it right, given that we share the single market and, above all, a single currency, that these countries should in some way compensate directly the other countries from which they have evaded a lot of taxes in recent years. this is the key thing: the question of conflict of interest and political will.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the optimism and the lack of concern of the council representatives and the commissioner, who is unfortunately not here. when he heard the chairman of the panama papers committee speak, i thought, "wow! but if even one of the representatives of the majority in the european parliament is so strongly critical of the weak proposals of the commission and the council, perhaps something is really wrong. and looking at what has been done in the last 20 years on tax cooperation within the european union shows how fragile the construction of this bureaucratic superstate is and how useless it is in solving the problems of citizens. the code of conduct group started in 1998: he's been trying to solve this problem for 20 years and he hasn't come to any conclusions. there is no desire to make the resolutions and the exchange of views between the member states at these meetings transparent. those of you who were with me on the taxe committees know how difficult it was for us to get access to these documents. so if, as oxfam international's latest report shows, four of the top ten tax havens in this ranking are in the european union, we have to ask ourselves: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the european union is really capable of solving this problem? is it really able to cooperate in making taxation transparent and fair for european citizens? i am not convinced, given the results, and i think we need to work on only one theme: the banks! by making the banking system transparent, we will solve more than 90% of this problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must restore confidence in tax matters and the cooperation tasks assigned by the member states must not be reduced. the ecofin code of conduct group has been performing a complementary function for many years, assessing tax measures related to the code of conduct and monitoring the provision of information. in the hierarchy of sources, however, the code is not a legally binding instrument but is reliant in its adoption and effectiveness on the commitment of the member states to abolish existing tax measures and to refrain from introducing new ones in the future. however, there has been much resistance to the adoption of national tax policies that would promote compliance with the code, in particular on reporting on relations with local multinationals, cross-border tax avoidance and improving the sharing of tax information between states. it is clear that these shortcomings, which i have already pointed out in this house and in the course of questions, justify the unacceptable maintenance of artificial tax-saving techniques with distortive effects on competition.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the vast majority of your speeches showed a consistent direction - an analysis we share and an expectation we support. my colleague moscovici had to reschedule. he sends his regards, but asked me to record your remarks. we will do this together with the experts from his cabinet and the directorate-general. i can say again at the outset: we believe that the position of the members is broadly in line with the position of the european commission. if you want to expect tax honesty, you have to promote tax justice. the two are closely linked. we therefore believe that more progress has been made in the last two years than in the previous 20 years. the glass is half full or half empty. transparency, cooperation, information obligations much has been achieved, but not enough. the situation is not satisfactory as it is. we believe that tax competition can be part of an acceptable european location competition. the regions, municipalities, member states, both inside and outside, are advertising with good education, good culture, good infrastructure, they are advertising with security and they are also advertising with taxes on turnover and income. i'm a realist, you know. i do not think that this competition between local authorities, regions and member states will be equalized in the coming years. we should note, however, that we are much further along in the area of turnover tax than in the area of income tax. in the area of turnover tax we have european framework rules for the fixing of minimum and maximum rates of tax and for the different tax levels, but in the area of income tax this will not yet be the case. it would be a step forward to arrive at the level of corporate and income taxation that we are at today in the european union in terms of turnover taxation. and i think we should see the presidency as a partner in this respect, asking it to convey its analysis, its criticism, to the council, to the 27 colleagues: in the end we are all losers. if the one with the tax benefits, with the deals, with the dumping has a short-term location advantage, we're all going to lose in the medium term. that is why i think a common approach is necessary. the european single market is the most attractive market in the world. everyone wants to trade in it, everyone wants to export it, everyone wants to use it. we should therefore avoid companies operating in this single market, both inside and outside europe, and tax avoidance or even tax dumping or tax deals coordinated with member states should remain possible in the long term. mr giegold has mentioned the subject of method. in fact, tax law doesn't have to be intergovernmental. this may be the case with financial transaction tax, but as a rule tax law is also subject to the community method, with the principle of unanimity. and we're working towards that. it is a difficult process and article 116 which you mentioned, mr giegold, can be an ultimatum. i do not exclude this for the commission. we will take the last two years as a foundation in our efforts, to continue our work, but not as an unending story. if tax policy violates competition rules in the internal market - there may be other violations: subsidies, state aid, etc. - then it may lead to the need to withdraw article 116 here, not indefinitely late, but at some point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they are also delegates, mandate holders, officials in your national parties, who partly govern, partly want to govern, who form governments, who write programmes for national elections, who bring about coalitions. we all - i join you - should perhaps do more to increase the pressure not only in strasbourg and brussels but also in berlin, paris, vilnius, madrid and rome. as long as national governments feel free and as long as this debate is not also strengthened in the national parties, we shall have a hard time. i think the public opinion, the pressure in the public over the last two years has been essential. he must continue, and that is what this debate is for. but this must also be the subject of debate in national parties and parliaments, where we have a say - you, others and myself. thank you. the commission is not going to change its mind.
i thank you, commissioner oettinger, also for the clarity of your statement.
president-in-office of the council mr president and members of this house who as myself and as the commissioner have attended this debate and the speeches. many of them were constructive and i agree with the last sentiment expressed by the commissioner that while the interventions were addressed, for the most part, to the council, everyone, the institutions, and also us as european citizens, we all have to work to achieve the objectives on this subject. i also took note of what was said again, particularly where there were obviously constructive comments. understand that i am here representing the council and not the member states and so although the temptation is great to reply to anyone who refers to a particular member state, i am here to give the council's position. the council has also worked in recent years in this regard and some of you have been here to acknowledge the conclusions adopted in december 2015 and march 2016 on the code of conduct group and also the other work being done in this regard. yes, as a presidency we are also committed to continue working, including on this last point, the code of conduct group that the presidency already referred to in the beps roadmap issued last january. i thank you again for this session and look forward to continuing to work with you too, members of parliament, in the common fight against tax evasion.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this decision.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have looked at mr mureşan's report and the priorities it sets in detail. i can say that the commission fully shares the priorities and expectations set out in this report for the financial year 2018, and i am also pleased that the council guidelines adopted by the council on 21 february are broadly in line with parliament's priorities. the starting point for a constructive and meaningful discussion between the council, parliament and the commission on the 2018 budget proposals which we as the commission will be drawing up and presenting is therefore quite good. the 2018 budget will not differ significantly from the 2017 budget. we expect that the tasks, challenges and priorities for the coming year will be very similar to those of 2017. the first is growth and investment in europe, with the aim of more employment. and the second is: security in the knowledge of migration and other tasks external and internal security. we shall be anchoring these two priorities in our budget proposal in line with the experience gained in recent months and this year and with realistic expenditure. with your support, we have earmarked eur 6 billion in the 2017 budget for migration and security. this is the amount of growth in the budget in general to help both member states and third countries to cope financially with the consequences of migration flows. we also want to propose in 2018 the necessary budgetary resources to finance legislative measures that have already been adopted. let us take the package of proposals on border management, heading 3; the new partnership framework is also included under heading 4 'europe in the world'. this means that we will reflect in the 2018 budget what has become a common policy of parliament, the council and the commission in recent months. we will take the necessary steps to adapt the budget to migration and security. but we know that our possibilities in the current multiannual financial framework are finite. the multiannual financial framework adopted in 2013 has basically failed to provide for these tasks, and we will do all we can to make them possible and to finance them. in addition to new priorities, we should continue to budget, with all sensitivity, the enabling of existing projects and programmes: horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility, cosme for smes and erasmus+. new priorities must not displace established programmes. we need to find a clever middle ground. in 2018, this will be possible again only if the flexibility instrument is used sufficiently. we are faced with new expectations: president juncker's state of the union speech with wifi for europe, the extension of efsi until at least the end of 2020, the consideration of a european youth solidarity corps, but also the european defence action plan. all these projects and ideas are new, they are innovative, they are right, but they do not come for free. this means that we are facing quite a few challenges in heading 1a, to finance all this in sufficient seriousness in 2018, or at least to finance it all. the idea of an interrail ticket coming from the heart of parliament that we want to give to young europeans on their 18th birthday seems to us to be a very interesting idea. with the launch of learn to move, move to learn in 2017, we want to make first attempts possible and gain first experience with young people. we're going to start this pilot project and see what we can do as a long-term funding project, together with you. here again we are relying on parliament's advice to see how we can get a medium term funding going in 2018 in view of the foreseeable large number of young people who will be involved. mr mureşan mentioned the issue of young people and the youth employment initiative: the reinforcement as agreed in the 2017 conciliation procedure will be taken up by the commission. we shall be submitting to you, the parliament and the council in a few weeks' time the draft of an amending budget. i mentioned the subject of flexibility. we will only be able to finance our various tasks in the coming years if we make full use of flexibility and extend it. we therefore believe that the mid-term review process and the mid-term review process are not going to be a failure. after many weeks of stagnation, an agreement was reached in the council a few days ago. the council has now given the green light for mid-term review and review, with some expectations and conditions that you must now advise. we will be happy to assist you in the assessment in the coming days and weeks. we are grateful to the committee on budgets for wanting to deal with this issue next monday, because we have a concern: once the article 50 letter from london arrives and with it brexit is on the agenda, the window for mid-term review and revision may close. and i think it would be very disadvantageous if we did not achieve a pragmatic, objective result from the mid-term review and the revision which has always been a concern of parliament. the time window is still open and more flexibility would be the main advantage in financing many projects which are also very important to parliament in the next three years. we will do everything we can to avoid a backlog in 2018 on the way to 2020. their concerns are our concerns; we share them fully. we will have a first trilogue on 27 march, an initial exchange of views, and there we will also have to discuss the timetable until october/november this year. the same day we will also be discussing the agencies and the monitoring of the payments situation. all in all, we have a clear agenda and i see no contradiction between parliament's priorities and your report, but rather an effective partnership for the commission. we would be happy to address your expectations of our 2018 budget proposal in a few months.
the budgetary procedure for 2018 will not be business as usual. in the age of brexit and the sovereignist parties fighting for the governments of their countries, we must find a new spirit and a new impetus to keep the very idea of european union alive. the plot thickens and the hands travel fast: we're called to respond and to respond for real. in this year's guidelines - and i thank the rapporteur, mr muraşan, for the excellent and fruitful cooperation - we have tried to identify the areas of action on which the union must concentrate in order to respond to citizens who are asking what is the point of this europe again - from sustainable growth to research as the key to youth employment, from investment as a tool for innovation to migration issues - supported with full force by the european parliament. there are signs of recovery, but we are still living through the long wave of the 2008 crisis to the point that many, especially young women and young men, don't even remember what the world was like before. the budget must be a political instrument in the service of our idea of europe, and almost all the elected representatives in this house know very well that europe represents the only possibility for growth, peace and happiness. just remember how to do it. if we don't give answers, someone else will, and we know what the answers will be. the european citizens want clear answers: a welfare model that works, a strong investment drive, a great plan to combat inequalities and a europe that welcomes migrants while protecting its own security. and yet, on the other hand, what must be said, and what everyone knows, is that our work will be completely useless if it is not directed primarily at the younger generation. for decades europe has been synonymous with the future and we have a moral duty to align our policy with this idea, for the survival of the very idea we are here to represent is at stake. i hope that this budgetary procedure, tactics aside, will be a new chapter and a new story.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth budgetary procedure i have followed and i see that, unfortunately, the same mistakes are being made every year. first point: it is useless to regard the european budget as the instrument for solving all the problems of european citizens, which are called recession, poverty and unemployment. the first step towards recovery would be to get rid of the constraints imposed by brussels and frankfurt, which do not allow the member states to make the necessary fiscal and monetary policy moves needed to get out of the crisis. we must therefore leave the euro, dismantle economic governance and then start anew on a different basis to seek a new, healthy and clear one: cooperation between european countries. i do not see how the efsi or the youth employment initiative can be considered as successes in the light of the specifics of this report. the efsi was a propaganda tool, which was supposed to get investments going again. but the results are far from flattering, as the report of the european court of auditors has also pointed out and demonstrated. the youth employment initiative starts from a concrete problem, which in many places becomes a real drama. the measures taken under this programme have, however, been of little or no avail: in italy this budget line has been affected by several cases of fraud and mismanagement. the european union cannot think of raising its image by giving young people an interrail ticket: this is a shameful, useless failure to please the people. we must also be very careful when we talk about projects and funds for common defence, because we have already given up a lot of sovereignty to brussels and with this idea we risk taking a step of no return, trampling again on the wishes and will of the peoples who do not want to be integrated anymore. finally, i think it is important to make a statement on brexit, because i fear that brussels will try to impose a heavy price on the british people for their free choice: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. monti has already tried to destroy a country on behalf of brussels and we will certainly not allow him to impose new taxes at european level, because that would mean the end of the freedom of the peoples and citizens of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we thought it appropriate to make a few amendments to this text. because i only have a minute, i'll list the top three: firstly, we demand that the infrastructure projects financed by the union have real added value and are not controversial projects designed only, very often, to finance large corporate entities or political client interests. we also call for a serious discussion on the efsi and the juncker plan, which has so far proved unsuccessful, to be opened up on this subject, i.e. a broad discussion on additionality and all the criteria that were promised. we would like to open a debate precisely because it does not achieve the objectives that were set. and finally, the point that i care about most: : we call for the funds spent on building security for earthquake and geological disaster measures to be excluded from the deficit calculation used by the stability and growth pact, as well as all public expenditure necessary to boost investment, development and employment. if we do not get out of this dogma of austerity and monetary restraint, it will be very difficult to boost demand in the eurozone and, above all, to justify the failed policies pursued so far.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the age of brexit and the emergence of nationalist impulses, europe must find new impetus to keep the idea of union alive. the budget must be seen as a political instrument at our disposal to give a concrete response to the demands of the european citizens. first of all, we must find more effective ways of adapting public spending to the real conditions in which member states pay: the future of the union is at stake, and these are issues that must be tackled with a comprehensive approach, not just technical and financial. the additionality and geographical balance of investment must be improved, by moving beyond austerity policies, focusing on growth and investing in the new generations. we must take the opportunity of the budget to revitalise the relationship with the citizens and to regain their confidence.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the year 2017: 20 million people are suffering from hunger and famine. it was the first time since 1945 that the world had faced such a humanitarian crisis, and we cannot even go behind the hypocrisy, because malnutrition and the impending famine are mainly man-made and it is no coincidence that the four countries mentioned above are all war zones. i am thinking first of all of yemen and the proxy war there between sunnis and shiites and the 462 000 children who are currently suffering from severe malnutrition. in south sudan we have now reached 300 000 victims and two million refugees. but we must not forget the climate change we are seeing, for example, around lake chad right now and the drought that is now affecting certain parts of africa. i could of course go on and on about boko haram and also about somalia and what has happened in the various areas, but what i would like to stress is that this famine is not an unforeseeable fate, but an unacceptable consequence of the trade policies we are pursuing and also of the actions of multinational companies - ours as europeans - but also of giants like china, and perhaps, in addition to the very important economic aid for which i thank the commissioner, we should act more decisively in this respect too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing the worst humanitarian crisis ever, and the ninth in a few years. in the face of a famine of this magnitude, time is of the essence. at stake is the survival of 1.4 million children across somalia, south sudan, yemen and northeastern nigeria: altogether, 20 million people are at risk. we work on the root causes that make these places highly vulnerable to climate change, the epicenter of crisis of enormous scale, starting with the conflicts that rob these doubly abused populations of any capacity for resilience. commissioner, we must hurry! drought cycles are now becoming longer and longer in many areas of the world, and conflicts are being caused by the tight control of scarce water resources. it is not an emergency but a fact that we must take into account. we are intervening through actions that can make these populations resilient and development policies with short, medium and long-term proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 20 million people are at risk of starvation in nigeria, somalia, south sudan and yemen. one and a half million children are at imminent risk of death: it's an unprecedented crisis. it's the un data on the situation in african countries. is not a statistical or census exercise: it is a warning, an alarm, the foretelling of an announced drama. but the cause of these deaths is not only nature, drought or impending famine. the main responsibility lies with men, with guerrilla warfare between rebel groups, with terrorism, with those who exploit resources in that area in a criminal way, impoverishing the territory and the population. we need $ 4 billion . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and it is hoping that the council will take them up. it is now that the european union must become decisive and take a leading role in the immediate future, to save those lives and, strategically in the future, to give an opportunity for development to africa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 20 million people are in danger of starving to death in the coming months. according to stephen o'brien, the un humanitarian chief, the area between south sudan, somalia, yemen and northeastern nigeria is facing the worst humanitarian crisis since the creation of the united nations. the first victims of this food catastrophe are largely the weaker sections of the population, such as children. the situation in south sudan is the most alarming: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem. such figures have not been seen since 1998, one of the most violent years of the civil war. it is estimated that $4.4 billion will be needed by july to stem the effects of the famine and avert a humanitarian catastrophe. this is a situation which europe must take on, first and foremost for humanitarian reasons. this time you can't turn around: if we do not help these people, europe will pay the highest price, and it could be at the centre of a huge migration flow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs and the other colleagues with whom i have worked because in just one year the commission's proposal is from february 2016 we have come to an agreement and to agree in the trilogue a good job, i believe, which is a key step for the full achievement of the digital union. it is now clear to everyone that high-speed connectivity is fundamental to our society and our economy. it is expected that by 2021 the number of smartphones will double and by 2020 internet traffic will increase by as much as eight times compared to today. i'm just quoting these two figures to give you a measure of the increase and the rapid growth of everything that's digital. we have to be ready to respond to this growing demand for connection. i think we need to do this because consumers need it, as do businesses and public administrations, to provide better and more efficient services. i think of all the innovative services that are right in front of us all, that are being born: from connected cars, to all the remote health management, to all the services of the public administration, and also to the whole big issue of digitization of businesses. the internet of things, cloud and mobile communications services are just a few examples of connectivity that are experiencing this development on a global scale. and so there is a demand for speed but also for communication networks that can carry a lot of data, a huge and growing mass of data, reaching densely populated areas as well as remote areas. the development of the most advanced technologies requires the european legislator to ensure the best possible access to the internet for all citizens, even in remote areas, also contributing to the development of increasingly cross-border and transnational applications. radio frequencies have no borders, which is why there is a need for better spectrum coordination at european level. i have been a strong supporter of this need for european coordination for some time. the aim of the proposal is to create uniform criteria at european level for the allocation of frequencies, to overcome barriers to entry, to overcome current barriers to competition and to offer this high-speed wireless connectivity with a universal character. the availability of a broad radio spectrum is one of the essential prerequisites for the deployment of broadband services. it is managed at national level it is a national asset and the sale of rights of use for it can provide substantial revenue (some states have already done so) to the coffers of the member states. but the national management of radio spectrum creates very different conditions between the individual states, both in terms of the duration of licences, of coverage obligations, but above all the consequences of inefficient use of this precious resource. that is why the commission, but also parliament, believe that action must be taken in good time, as we are doing, to ensure that spectrum is managed and regulated more efficiently. the proposal focuses on two main elements: for the 700 band, there is a common timetable for its effective availability for use by wireless services under harmonised conditions, with coordination measures to support the transition phase. for the sub-700 band, a long-term priority for the distribution of audiovisual media services to the general public is envisaged, together with a flexible approach to spectrum use in response to the different degree of digital terrestrial television penetration in the various member states. we have reached a good compromise in the itre committee, asking for the release of this band to take place by 2020 but also for some states to allow for a small delay, motivated by certain specific conditions. and we also asked for a coordinated plan for transnational issues. i think it is a good job, balanced, that meets clear objectives and that will put us in a position to win this race for the spread of 5g and all the most advanced technologies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs toia on her excellent work. connectivity services are developing rapidly globally and require speed but also communication networks capable of carrying a lot of data and reaching the most remote areas. the availability of a broad spectrum, currently managed at national level with very different conditions between member states, is one of the essential prerequisites for the spread of broadband services. the proposal for a decision will harmonise the criteria for the allocation of frequencies at european level, obliging member states to make rights of use for spectrum for electronic communications services in the 700 mhz frequency band marketable. the implementation of the proposed measures will not only make it cheaper to develop innovative devices and services, but will also allow europe to accelerate towards the digital single market and the development of the 5g network, thus closing the gap with the leading countries in mobile broadband.
member of the commission. – madam president, we were recently able to abolish roaming surcharges. everybody in the european union will benefit from that, and everybody can understand the meaning of this decision. we were recently also able to allow portability of content to our citizens. once again, everybody will benefit from that, and everybody can understand the meaning of this decision. regarding the 700 mhz, the situation is a little more complicated. not everyone is able to understand about 700 mhz. i would say that a majority of our citizens will switch off if somebody starts to talk about 700 mhz, but it is an extremely important issue. we can only dream about remote surgery or connected cars and 5g. without clarity in 700 mhz it will never become reality in the european union. but this is global competition. we know that south korea has stated that it will start to use 5g at their olympic games in 2018. i took part in the g7 meeting in japan, where the japanese said very clearly that at their olympic games in 2020 they will start to use 5g. in europe, ericsson and telia have stated that they will start to use major elements of 5g in 2018 in three cities: stockholm, tallinn and helsinki. it is easy to think that it is possible to create new apps based on 5g or to build new cars based on 5g by just knowing theoretically how it will work. but we know the best solutions we will be able to get are if we are faced with real-life situations. so we are in a terrible hurry, and that is why we are setting ambitious aims, namely to cover all the urban areas and main transport paths with 5g networks by 2025. there is a secondary aim: in at least one major city in every eu member state, they have to start to use 5g networks on a commercial basis by 2020. this is important for self-driving cars, absent and remote surgery, etc. this clarity in 700 mhz is a real pre-condition for being among the leaders of this global competition. i would like to cordially thank all members of parliament, but especially the rapporteur, ms toia, for this heavyweight decision. i am sure that, thanks to this decision, europe will take a leading position in the meaning of 5g.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this was truly a job in which each of our colleagues contributed, gave his own ideas and so it is the result of a joint effort. i want to say three very brief things: we all understand the importance of europe winning this 5g challenge: so we need to make these frequencies available quickly and to have a harmonised and efficient allocation, because we know that this lower frequency band allows for a capillary spread. but we knew that we had behind us, with the very slow release of the 800 mhz band, a failure with 4g, which slowed down the spread of all the networks that used 4g. so the first goal was to take a step forward. but we could not forget the objective of meeting the needs of broadcasters, who are also businesses that provide jobs, generate profits, so a balance had to be found, a win-win strategy. we have worked very well with the cult committee, with mr maullu as rapporteur, and we have found, i believe, a balanced solution which allows us to meet this challenge but also to leave the whole issue, which is of great interest to europe, of creative and broadcasting companies on the table. one last thing, a little bit about my country: there was a lot of concern when we wanted to introduce the possibility of a reasoned postponement of frequency release until 2022. we have said, however, that it is not the laziness of the states that is causing them to sit back and do nothing! it's about understanding certain objective situations. it seems to me that it was a choice of trust but also a winning one: i speak for my country, which seemed to be one of those which, due to historical and political conditions, was somewhat behind. i know a lot of things have been set in motion: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all this is going on and so we may not use that delay and i hope the other states will not either so that we can all be prepared to do our job well, realistically and seriously. so i thank you, mr. vice president, also for all that we will do together again, specifically on the 5g plan.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 9 and 10 march, including the rome declaration. before the speakers take the floor, i would like to thank on behalf of the european parliament the president of the european council, mr donald tusk, the president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, the italian prime minister, mr paolo gentiloni, and the maltese deputy prime minister, mr louis grech, for accepting the invitation to take part in this debate on the future of europe. i would first like to remind you that the netherlands is going to the polls today and no one can offend a democratic country that is going to the polls, offending all european citizens and the values in which we all identify. we are much more than a market and a currency, and this is where we have to start again. that is why today's debate is particularly important: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union. we need to give concrete answers to unemployment, especially youth unemployment, terrorism and immigration, promoting our values in the world. parliament opened this debate by approving the verhofstadt, bresso-brok and berès-böge reports at the last part-session in strasbourg. two weeks ago the commission presented its white paper and at the last european council the heads of state or government had a wide-ranging discussion on this subject. a solemn declaration is also due to be signed by the heads of the european institutions in rome on 25 march. we need european unity more than ever: the union must be changed, but not weakened.
president tusk, thank you, and my congratulations on your election for the second time as president of the european council. thank you also for your speech. i totally agree with you, as i said at the beginning of this plenary, on the situation in the netherlands.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to wish president tusk well. i thank president juncker, prime minister gentiloni and deputy prime minister grech for their important speeches. i thank in particular prime minister gentiloni for his strong recognition of the essential role of the european parliament. i take from your words the urgency of strong action to revive the european project and we socialists are in favour of it. if there's one thing we can't afford in rome, it's to talk in vain or use rhetoric or slogans. president tajani, you know you have the confidence of our group: but if the final rome declaration is too weak, if it contains no meaningful reference to social europe and the governance of the euro area, we will ask you not to sign it. we would have liked the whole parliament to have been more involved in the preparation of this declaration, through an ad hoc resolution, although it is true that there have been three important reports and resolutions in which we recognize ourselves. we socialists are not resigned to the status quo. populists are strong, not just when we can't explain our successes; they are strong even when we seem weak or resigned. united and brave, we can defeat them. the magic word of these days has been recalled today is "speed". but europe at more speeds is not the panacea for all ills: it's a method, not the substance, not the strategy. gentiloni said the wise things today. i recognize that this method has served europe well in the past because it is unacceptable for one member state to veto if others want to go ahead: but it would be a mistake to focus solely on speed. the problem facing europe today is not one, two, three, four speeds, but the direction of travel, the substance; let's agree on a direction: where are we going? what's the port? and i hope that all the member states and all the europeanist political families will go in that direction, and if someone is not in it, it is his responsibility to call himself out and he cannot prevent the others from going forward. if the direction is austerity, for example, let's go for a bump. that is why the problem is the content, the substance and not the method. first comes the substance, then the method. in rome, we have three great challenges to face. the first concerns the unity of europe: our social and territorial cohesion. we need common social standards, better living conditions. this means a strong social pillar, a european investment strategy that creates jobs through energy transition, circular economy, digital connectivity for all. and to those who ask where we will find the resources to do these things, i say that every year tax evasion robs european citizens of billions of euros. we have to give it back to our citizens. the second major priority concerns collective defence and the external border. it is impossible to have a market without internal borders without sharing responsibility for the management of external borders and without having a european asylum system. the third priority concerns the projection of europe in the world: while trump is isolating america and threatening the international order, while important countries - you said so and i fully agree with president juncker's reaction - while turkey is pushing towards an illiberal, authoritarian and personal dimension of power, europe must be the reference point for those who believe in democracy and human rights. mr president, the dream that animated the constituents 60 years ago has gone through several stages: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal. it may seem strange, but the more the european union is threatened, the more i believe in europe. the more dark the times become, the more i understand the meaning and the need for european integration. and i realized that only if we truly believe in that project can we change it and save it. half-sentence, compromise on words, shyness and ambiguity are no longer needed: in rome, everyone is free to choose his own side and then we go on to change europe and save the european project.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, presidents tusk, juncker, gentiloni, politicians generally fall into two basic categories, those which come to light in particular in one circumstance, namely when their prescriptions are contradicted by reality. here's the difference: there are politicians who are guided by reason, who know how to recognize their mistakes with humility and try to change their recipes; and then there are the ideologically-obsessed politicians who think instead that they can keep the recipes and change reality. unfortunately, we are in danger of falling into the second category here. the boat sinks and you take care of the cruising speed. and if someone points to the approaching iceberg, they are told to shut up, because they are not an expert or a europeanist. if a wave of rejection is sweeping europe, some questions should be asked about the reasons for this phenomenon. blaming the voters is never wise: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the present european union has shown that it is incapable of dealing with medium-scale emergencies, such as greece, or with major emergencies, such as immigration, or with the ordinary challenge of emerging from the economic crisis and returning to sustained and strong growth. but the union has gone further: it has become too centralized and too distant from the citizens. the push towards a closer union is not a hope for citizens to work together; the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and it has been a party to the maastricht treaty. but the cause, the origin, is always the wrong policies which unfortunately continue to be defended. for these reasons, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties, we call for a number of clear choices: the first is to promote a new process of genuine renegotiation, which invests all existing european rules and treaties and involves all the member states of the european union. to exclude further cessions of sovereignty to the existing institutions of the european union, especially in the absence of democratic guarantees and full control by citizens; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. europe does not need a final cage today, but rather competition between different models and systems, so that those countries and territories which are able to cut taxes, expenditure and public debt, and thus foster growth, can be an example and an incentive for others. promoting a mechanism to strengthen national parliaments so that they can act jointly to discuss and propose union policies. the european hope and the great dream of the founders will not be saved by continuing along the wrong road of these years, travelled at a greater or lesser speed. you can go faster or slower, but unfortunately, the direction remains wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are our proposals and we will support them vigorously. the choice is clear: on the one hand, a feeble and rhetorical celebration; on the other hand, a strong and credible celebration. we shall support this second option because it is a real future for europe and for our children.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr gentiloni, it does me some good to note that the star of europe is now the prime minister of yet another italian government which has not been formed by the citizens' electoral consultation. the crisis of legitimacy that italy has been experiencing in recent years is a crisis for the whole of europe, and we saw this with brexit. the european union must not be left in the lurch by the crisis that you have caused, the same people who last week at the summit spoke of the priorities for a new europe and who are now frightened by the rise of populism. we are talking about structural reforms, but the reality is that they are designed to subject european countries to the dictates of those who have no idea what it means to survive the crisis. the reforms are designed to modernise the european economies: but in reality there are member states that are the lion's share and there are member states that are the prey. it is prepared to swat every state that tries to breathe in the suffocating grip of the fiscal compact, but it does not move a finger if multinationals evade taxation within europe itself. what about the social side? with austerity we have left our citizens without jobs, the sick without medicine, the poor without social assistance. what's the recipe for occupation? will you replicate the precarious and unprotected formulas that were used in italy with the jobs act? what has happened to the commission's intentions on the income of european citizens? but we also talk about immigration. it is no longer possible for one or two countries to become europe's refugee camp, but everyone must take responsibility for their own actions. you say that the phenomenon of landings must be prevented: well, what does that mean? that we will stop participating in the wars that cause the surge in migration flows? what kind of economic development do you have in mind, then? what are the environmental, health and climate impacts? what are the means by which he intends to achieve this? with the feis? the plan that blinds the banks with financial engineering products that will create yet another speculative bubble, that has financed projects linked to fossil fuels and finances industries like ilva that cause death? the truth is that two-speed europe already exists, mr president: we have seen it in greece and portugal. there is the europe of the banks, the multinationals, the lobbies, and the europe of the citizens, of those who have lost their jobs and have no rights. in rome we will be proposing to the citizens the 'five-star book', the latest attempt to create a home that is the europe of the citizens. will you give answers to the people out there, to their problems and their needs? stop building fortifications, like prisons, because otherwise we will either face the ghosts of the past or be buried in the rubble of past mistakes.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking to those outside this building, to those in this chamber, to those watching from home, not to those who govern this european union because they are complicit, hypocritical, false, incompetent or naive. drying up of turkish leader erdogan's threats: we are giving them ten and a half billion euros at the moment. if you have any pride and dignity, suspend the payment of these billions of euros to the turkish regime. we cannot finance people who come to europe to lecture us on democracy, who say that there are whole countries in the hands of fascists and racists. does that sound normal? can you, between a coffee and another, between an aperitif and another, suspend this river of public money which is going from the pockets of the italians and europeans to finance the turkish regime, yes or no? if you have time, you will also suspend the accession negotiations, which should never have started, because turkey is not, will not and will never be europe, unless someone is not interested in doing business there. you can't get anything done on immigration. records of deaths, landings. the euro is a disastrous currency: in 15 years, it has brought four million poor people, record unemployment and a public debt that has increased by 800 billion euros. some are boasting about removing the tariffs that protect italian and european goods from unfair chinese competition: you're either paid by others or you're crazy! you renewed economic sanctions against russia, the only country that had the courage to go into syria to fight islamic terrorism. if we had to wait for european governments or the european commission to fight isis, we would have them sitting here today, burqa and mitre, lecturing us on democracy. but you're obviously fine with it. as far as agriculture is concerned, not a word, not a word! you are flooding the market and the tables of europe and the stomachs of european children with tunisian oil, moroccan oranges, tomatoes coming from who knows where, barrels coming from china without any kind of control, rice from cambodia, powdered milk from ukraine. i demand that the food, the sea and the land which the good lord has left to the peoples of europe be defended before this commission arrives and destroys everything. at this moment there are thousands of italian workers on the streets in rome against the bolkestein directive, one of the directives that helps multinational companies on the skin of workers, like the banking directive, like the directives on finance and trade. you are the ruin of the european dream: you should be ashamed to go to rome next week; you should shut yourself in your homes and ask for forgiveness, because the european dream which is my dream, which is the dream i want to leave to my children, has been ruined by people like you. you have the dream of bankers, financiers, lobbyists, freemasons and corporations: i would like to ask you to take your hands off this europe and leave it to the people of europe. good luck with that, president juncker!
there are a great many members who are registered to speak, which is why i cannot give out blue card questions during today's debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since i do not feel like celebrating, i can only say what i would like to see done on this anniversary. i would like the union to recognise the mistakes made since the crisis began, to give top priority to social justice and a major new deal. only then will it convince the citizens who are increasingly disgusted with our institutions. i would like you to stop calling populists all those who, when they do not get real change of course, feel disgust and fear. i would like the union to start thinking of itself as a land of immigration and to stop dumping problems on africa that we cannot solve except with walls and prisons for refugees. it will seem like a utopia: but let us not forget that the union was also, in the midst of war, a utopia for a few.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by reading a few passages from the ventotene manifesto, which has been mentioned several times in our discussions here in parliament on the future of the union. "the european revolution, in order to meet our needs, must be socialist, that is, it must aim at the emancipation of the working classes and the creation of more humane living conditions for them". well, this is the exact opposite of what will be celebrated in rome. i also heard president juncker speak today about strengthening the social pillar of the union. i wonder what is meant by the 'social pillar of the union'? i hope that the socialist governments of the european union - the italian or the french - have not done the same with their labour reforms. i would like to know what is meant by a europe based on human rights when agreements are concluded, such as the one concluded with turkey or the one concluded with libya. i would like to invite you, mr president-in-office, to visit a cara and listen to the women who speak about rape, illegal detention and torture at the level of libya. finally, i would like to say that i think that in 2017 we cannot have, as you did, an entirely male speech, with a quote that ends entirely in male. we criticize trump but perhaps we should explain that the italian government does not have an equal opportunities department. i will be in the streets on 25 march with those who want another europe possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days we shall be celebrating the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome, and we are here to say that these celebrations should be an opportunity to relaunch the european project. but if we want a strong europe, if we want a great european project, we must have the instruments to make this happen. europe was created to ensure the well-being and solidarity of its citizens, and today, in a world that has become smaller and smaller with globalisation, we need europe more than ever to ensure well-being, growth and jobs. if we do not reduce unemployment, as mr gentiloni, the president of the council, said a short while ago, there will be no confidence in the future. i say that if we don't reduce youth unemployment, we have no future. the debate on the future of the european union should be the debate of young people who today feel excluded, who today are excluded. the european average for youth unemployment is about 22%. in my country it's 40%, but in other countries it's 46% and 48%. it is certainly the greatest concern of our fellow citizens, a concern which in european families becomes anxiety, anguish. and at the top of the list of european concerns is also immigration. today the italian media is sounding the alarm: it is estimated that in 2017 250,000 migrants will land on italian shores, 70,000 more than last year, which was a record year. so, mr tusk, it is a good quote from you that 'if you want to go fast, go alone, if you want to go far, go together'. but the anger that we feel is growing in our communities can only give way to hope if the european union can accelerate and give concrete answers. as the council representative said, the union is its 500 million citizens. they must be at the centre of our action and above all we must make them feel at the centre; then we can get back on track, replace anger with hope, and build our future together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the italian council, we do not expect miracles or immediate revival from rome, but something, yes, something we do expect. and as representatives of the peoples of europe, we also think we deserve it. we want to hear from the council, from the 27 member states, a sigh of pride, a sense of responsibility, because the future of europe is also in the hands of those who, starting from rome, will have to decide whether to stop or go forward in the direction not only of speed, which has been mentioned here, but above all of the ability to give effective answers, even in different formats, but always safeguarding the value of the political unity of the european union. so more democracy the spitzenkandidat but also social and fiscal equity. we want social union explicitly, not just monetary union. but what sense of belonging do you think a monetary or banking union will generate among its citizens? social unity is more than a generic social dimension: it means that the citizenship of europeans, their problems and their rights, are not only at the heart of the union but are its very substance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what a fine speech on a social, solidarity-based and integrated europe! how to make it, always a mystery. the eu today is a completely sclerotic system: the only form of economic coordination applied so far is called austerity; the european union has been a major contributor to the economic recovery in the eu since the early 1990s. what have you been doing all these years? is it just me who has missed the social compact or perhaps a juncker plan to combat unemployment? but in reality a social clause already exists in the treaties, it already exists as a legal basis: what is lacking, as always, is political will. president juncker said earlier that when he speaks of social policy, he notices the timidity of the house: i know! it's the shyness of shame, because everyone knows it's just words. in fact, not one. and the gentiloni, who is no longer even the president of the council - and it's not that you notice too much of a difference - was concerned about citizens' confidence in the future of the eu. i think that is a wrong question because if you continue to leave the weakest behind, as you have done so far, there will be no future and certainly no eu to defend.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of president juncker i would like to thank everyone for their remarks, and i will present my conclusions. firstly, the president and you mentioned the white paper on the future of europe. the starting point for each scenario is that the 27 member states move forward together as a union. if a member state wants to integrate itself more with others it can already do so today, but nobody who has a willingness to go ahead will be left behind. building a stronger europe has been, and will be, an inclusive process. secondly, concerning the western balkans, the european perspective and enlargement of the european union: when we prepared our country for eu membership, our people knew that everything we were doing we did for ourselves. all the reforms we made in estonia were for ourselves, not for brussels or anybody else, and this is my message also to candidate countries. enlargement of the european union is a question of conditionality. if candidate countries fulfil all the criteria, they will be welcome to the union; if not, they have to try harder. thirdly, i would like to stress the economic dimension of the conclusions. in line with the joint declaration of the leaders of the institutions, the european council stressed the importance of advancing all files related to the single market strategies by 2018. a digital single market will bring tangible benefits to citizens, such as the end of roaming surcharges and unjustified geo-blocking, allowing cross-border portability. it is only with concrete action that we will create the eu of the future. i thank you all for your continued work and efforts, which will make this happen. i would also, of course, like to congratulate donald tusk on his re—election.
president of the european council. – mr president, firstly, thank you for your words of congratulations and support. it gives me the greatest satisfaction to hear them here in the european parliament. secondly, i share the views of those who want us not to celebrate in rome, but to set a clear course for the future. rome will be one of the stages, not the grand finale, of this discussion. if this discussion is to be effective, there must be cooperation between states and between the institutions. i am declaring this unequivocally and with the deepest conviction. thirdly, the white paper – and especially the multi-speed scenario as one of the forecasts – has sparked a lot of controversy, not only here in parliament. but, at the same time, it has a sobering affect as a warning to those who have the weakening of the eu in mind. it is my hope that rome will be a turning point in the reintegration of the union. i am aware that not all politicians will be our allies, but, as paradoxical as it may sound, the majority of citizens of the countries governed by the eurosceptics will be on our side. fourthly and lastly, mr lamberts has said that i owe my re-election mainly to the fact that mr kaczyński was against it and that his attack on me helped me. i can only say that i find it quite natural that in critical moments we can always count on our compatriots.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the celebrations for the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome are an important opportunity to give new impetus to the european project and to focus on the priorities of the europe we want, a united and strong europe in foreign policy, a europe with a common defence and capable of ensuring internal security; a europe that promotes economic growth, investment and competitiveness, that strengthens economic and monetary union by developing the single market and that has a single fiscal policy; a europe without internal borders implementing a comprehensive migration policy; a europe with a social dimension that invests in young people, the only ones who can give new life to the original project; an innovative europe investing in digital infrastructure, start-ups, the collaborative economy and job growth i hope that the european leaders will not miss this opportunity to send a strong signal, especially to young people. by investing in young people we are investing in the future of europe, and europe deserves the future our founding fathers envisioned for us 60 years ago.
in writing. at this particular moment in history, our europe seems to be in the throes of a profound identity crisis, reluctant to seize the opportunity of greater cohesion to face the innumerable global challenges, and oblivious to the extraordinary political, economic and social achievements which, sixty years after the foundation of its first foundations, it has managed to achieve and which we are about to celebrate. the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome must therefore be the springboard for the 'relaunch' of the arduous process of building our common home, and in this context i believe that the 'two-speed' instrument, or, to define it more correctly and above all more positively, 'enhanced cooperation', can be an effective solution for enlarged europe. however, this is true only if, as president gentiloni rightly reminded the european parliament in plenary, this instrument does not lead to the breakdown of europe into 'series a' and 'series b' member states. the persistence of terrorism, the spread of euroscepticism and populism, the emergence of new regional conflicts and the increase in migratory flows are problems that europe can only effectively solve by remaining united.
in writing. let's look at a date, march 25th, that will wrap up the film of a beautiful story: the european union is the vision of a united europe, a europe that guarantees peace, the union dreamed of by its founders as a union of shared intentions, objectives and guarantees. but it's not just a celebration, today is no longer the time. that union is under attack, mistrusted by its citizens and disowned by some of its own states, which are indulging in nationalism for electoral purposes. so let 25 march and this rome declaration, to which parliament was unfortunately not invited to participate, be the real start of the union with a europe more responsive to the needs of citizens and the states themselves. the europe of reality and not of dreams, a union of welfare and cooperation which lives and does not survive, a social union which guarantees rights, development, employment and stability to each of its 500 million inhabitants.
mr president, i voted in favour of this regulation because it is the right completion of the work done on animal health standards. in that regulation we laid down a number of very important rules to prevent the recurrence of cases such as swine fever or avian influenza and to respond promptly to outbreaks of diseases affecting both animals and humans. but rules and no controls risk being useless. the regulation we are approving today therefore closes the circle, completing a system of truly cutting-edge european standards, which range from breeding to marketing, through production and the food business is one of the richest and also the one that registers the most fraud, fraud that is increasingly frequent and increasingly sophisticated. the new rules adopted today will give member states more tools for effective inspections and controls, based on ex ante risk assessment.
mr president, i too voted in favour of this dossier in order to give an organic structure to the fragmented european legislation in force, to ensure the application of the legislation on food and feed, the rules on animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products. after more than three years of parliamentary work, first and second readings, and more than ten trilogues, the european institutions deliver a comprehensive and rigorous european legislation, able to respond to the food safety demands of european consumers. the main innovations introduced include a risk-based approach to controls, coverage of the entire food chain, flexibility of controls, which will finally be able to adapt to new production models, new technologies and new risks, better fight against fraudulent or misleading practices and protection of whistleblowers. the new framework will enable the european union to have legislation up to date, allowing a better fight against the most sophisticated fraud.
mr president, i would like to emphasize that i voted in favour of this report, which was very well prepared by mrs toia and which has created the conditions for a completely balanced approach, an approach in one system, that of digital terrestrial television, which gives 250 million people the possibility of being able to use and have information through a mass media instrument such as television, but above all it has created the conditions for being able to defend even better the european audiovisual sector, which represents an extraordinary cultural heritage which, i believe, especially at a time of the spread of new media, needs to be protected because of what it represents for our europe and because of what it represents for our cultural roots, which must be safeguarded in an increasingly globalized world.
mr president, today i voted in favour of the decision on the use of the 700 mhz frequency band in europe, which obliges member states to make commercial spectrum rights for electronic communications services. the availability of broad spectrum will enable the development of new innovative digital services in urban as well as rural or isolated areas, making a substantial contribution to reducing the quality gap in digital infrastructure. i think about the importance of electronic health services, such as support for mobile phones and patient monitoring devices, as well as smart energy networks and the internet of things revolution. the so-called industry 4.0 linked to fast networks and the reduction of the digital literacy gap is the field in which europe must invest its best energies, responding to the ambitions of young europeans and directing technological progress towards a diffusion of its economic and social benefits.
mr president, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution today to emphasize a fundamental requirement for non-discriminatory road tolls, namely that all users pay the same fare for using the same roads. i think that any national road toll system which discriminates directly on the basis of nationality or which is combined with national tax measures to the exclusive benefit of the citizens of a country, for example a deduction from the national motor vehicle tax, thus pursuing the objective of placing the main burden on foreign users, constitutes a breach of the principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i therefore think it is right that the european commission should initiate infringement proceedings against germany for discrimination against foreign users. i urge the commission to review the legislation on the eurovignette and i stress the need to harmonise the sector through the european electronic toll service, which would make it possible to pay tolls throughout the union with a single system.
mr president, europe has done nothing against islamic terrorism, not after the attacks in brussels, not after the attacks in nice, berlin and munich. we've been saying it for years: we have the enemy at home; unfortunately, the enemy is already inside our own house, and that enemy is called islamic fundamentalism. islam has declared war on us and in war we have the duty to fight to defend our land and our children. it is not enough to open the doors to all the illegal, fake refugees who are invading italy and europe. that's what the intelligence services of half the world said. we've always said so, and now the facts are backing it up. among the clandestine arrivals on the boats are terrorists ready to strike. without internal border controls, because of schengen, terrorists are free to roam from one country to another, all over europe, ready to strike our cities. enough with the false goodness! enough with the false myth of hospitality! strong and urgent measures are needed to be implemented immediately: close the borders, defend the borders, stop the illegal invasion. zero tolerance and a fist of iron. that's what it takes to really fight the danger of islamic terrorism.
no, it is simply europol that says that terrorists are among the fake refugees coming to europe; i am not saying that. perhaps you should read this dossier, which is very clear.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our prosperity is based on the exploitation of the poorest. we're all guilty of it, and if you think you're an outsider, take out your smartphone and think again. telephones, cars, planes and computers are stained with blood because all of them, without exception, contain rare minerals extracted from war-torn countries, conflict zones or conditions that violate the most basic human rights, including the right to freedom and life. three years ago, we said enough and started working on a law to curb this phenomenon. after long negotiations, hundreds of amendments and thousands of hours of work, the first european regulation to end the supply of conflict minerals is about to be published. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the mediterranean area. the multinationals in the technology, automotive and aviation sectors have fought hard, but they have not been able to stop us, while we, in order to protect smes, have exempted small importers, such as goldsmiths or dentists, from the regulation to avoid an excessive bureaucratic burden. our goal was to stop trade from financing conflict, destruction and death, and i think we've succeeded. unfortunately, not everything went as we wanted: our original proposal was much more detailed and extensive and contained far fewer exceptions. but this is certainly a first step and i hope that in a few years' time we will be able to look back at this regulation and make it even more effective. there is a europe of the multinationals and the powerful, which uses trade to exploit the poor countries, to take away their resources and to destroy their rights. but there is also a europe of citizens, which is just, fair and supportive, and which uses its weight for justice and to promote a better world. this is the europe i chose to represent when i decided three years ago that i would be dealing with trade in the european parliament, and i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you can do the same.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the extraction and trade of minerals throughout the world is often linked to war, conflict and human rights violations. the european union is one of the main importers of these precious raw materials, both in raw form and as components of everyday products, from laptops to mobile phones to jewellery. with the agreement reached in the trilogue, which makes traceability of minerals from conflict zones binding and not just on a voluntary basis, the union has taken a step in the right direction and we will therefore support this regulation, the result of a long and difficult negotiation, even if many of parliament's requests have not been met and much remains to be done. in fact, minimum import quantities are established below which traceability is not required. this will allow small importers to continue to ignore the origin of minerals. furthermore, the restriction does not apply to all of the elements that are now considered to be conflict minerals, but only to some of them, and finally only to the importers of these raw materials, and not only to the companies that produce the final products containing these minerals, are subject to the traceability obligation. we therefore regard this as a first step and believe that the commission should closely monitor the application of this regulation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation finally puts an end to human rights abuses and violations and, above all, to the link between conflict and the illegal exploitation of certain minerals. the so-called 'conflict minerals' undermine government policies aimed at socio-economic development, good governance, the rule of law and the protection of human rights. it is important to provide for greater transparency and to have established due diligence in the supply chain for importers of certain minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. responsible importers should only source from smelters and refiners that are audited by third parties. the obligation to trace is a great achievement and the voluntary approach itself will motivate the participation of responsible companies and their number will gradually increase as a result of competitive and market pressures. i think that in this connection we must provide appropriate incentives: importers, smelters and refiners who decide to make additional efforts should have the opportunity to benefit from this in terms of image, perhaps through the publication of lists containing indications of importers, smelters and refiners.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the political and economic weakness of europe and the ambiguous relationship between the eu and nato mark the objective limits of this project. i would point out that in the first two months of the year alone, dozens and dozens of ships have docked in european ports after making mysterious stops, shutting down radar, thus making it impossible to identify the port, and coincidentally in areas controlled by isis and al qaeda. so what are we talking about? there is no european foreign policy that defines who are friends and who are enemies, and of course i am well aware that these enemies exist and are called islamic terrorism, al qaeda, etc. perhaps tomorrow or the day after tomorrow turkey too, who knows, let us hope not. so, increase expenses, but for what? to buy the f-35s? i think that we can think of an alliance between countries that want to cooperate in defence. i'd like to report the latest news: there is a country, germany, whose bundeswehr already recruits european volunteers; it is in the white paper, but it is not mentioned in this report. it seems to me that this is a subject which should interest us all a little more deeply.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not against a defence europe. but the problem with this report is that, as so often happens, the order of the factors is confused, in this case the external factors prevail. the european parliament has also called for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption, and to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. when member states are asked to bring spending to 2%, we are talking about a hundred billion euros: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why waste and duplication should be eliminated so that savings can be reinvested in other things or at least not increase expenditure. the report is right when it says that the governance, funding and objectives of a possible european defence fund should be clarified and we should know this information before, not after the vote on this text. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we should have a white paper with the various options and start the broad-based process not only with the european and national institutions but also with citizens and civil society. only in this way can we build a conscious political will which, at present, is far from clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteurs have pointed out, the changes in international geopolitics, the terrorist attacks not only in europe, and the persistence of conflicts in various parts of the world make it absolutely essential to respond unitedly to risks and threats against which individual states cannot defend themselves. a common defence, within the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty, requires a new governance model, with coordination and commitment by the member states, by strengthening existing instruments and agencies. however, while it is necessary to provide adequate budgetary resources for common defence action in line with the needs of ensuring external and internal security, which are inextricably linked, actions and initiatives to support citizens, especially the most vulnerable, must not be sacrificed. only then can common defence really be an added value for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a common defence policy is needed more than ever. a priority commitment by member states is needed to create a policy path based on shared resources and capabilities and coordinated planning at union level. states can benefit from a sufficient and coherent regulatory and operational framework following the reform of the common security and defence policy by the treaty of lisbon. security and defence is a clear european added value area, if only one considers the estimates that each euro invested in defence generates a return of eur 1.06. but the strengthening of the union's operational capacity is worth much more when we consider the cost of non-europe which results from the failure to maintain peace, prevent conflict and strengthen european security. in the constant search for the right political and operational dimension in the common security and defence policy, this parliament must, however, play a real leading role.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a strange paradox. we have attacked and exploited all the resources of the planet as if they were endless and without seeing a tomorrow, without thinking about the consequences. this has caused enormous damage to the environment, of which the worst of all is climate change. now climate change is having its very serious impact on a very delicate environment, which is the arctic, and we, instead of standing up to defend this environment that is suffering badly from the consequences of climate change, we see it as a new frontier of resources to be exploited again without thinking about the consequences and only at some point, looking back, we will see what we have caused. the parliament's report is good: it contains important points that can give a strong signal. who causes this climate change and the exploitation of fossil resources? let's stop the exploitation of fossil resources in that area at least.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must act swiftly to safeguard the arctic to avoid the area's militarization and to preserve the fragile ecosystem from climate change and aggressive competition for natural resources. we must first of all ensure peaceful cooperation in the arctic region. the arctic environment is particularly fragile and requires policies that promote sustainable development, taking into account the specific characteristics of the places. it would be desirable to reduce oil and gas extraction but also to stop offshore drilling for fossil fuels. the european union must work in international fora to promote a shared arctic strategy that will achieve the goal of a low-carbon economy. there is also a risk of overexploitation of fish resources, and it is essential to establish fishing levels that allow the conservation of fish stocks on the basis of scientific, reliable and prudent assessments, but which could also recommend a moratorium on industrial fishing in arctic waters.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the arctic is a precious ecosystem which plays a crucial role in regulating ocean currents and the climate of the entire planet. if he gets sick, the world gets sick, which is not healthy enough. but the earth fever for some is just another opportunity to profit. as the ice sheets recede due to climate change, it becomes easier and easier to exploit these waters rich in life and natural resources. overfishing, shipping, and drilling for fossil fuels threaten this ecosystem. the norwegian government just this week proposed a record expansion of oil and gas exploration in the arctic. the risk of a race to exploit, as well as an environmental catastrophe, can lead to geopolitical and military tensions in these international waters and on this land that should belong to no one. we welcome this report and call for the eu to be the leader of a new way of managing this area, which should not be exploited for its resources but rather become a great space for research and monitoring of climate change: a true arctic sanctuary. above all, we call for the promotion of an international agreement to ban all extractive activities. the arctic, like our earth, is not something we inherited from our fathers: we borrowed it from our children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement policy of the union is an investment in peace, security and prosperity in europe, providing economic and trade opportunities to the mutual benefit of the european union and the countries that aspire to join it. but we must ensure that the future member states are well prepared and implement deep reforms in every area. i would like to mention transport and the transeuropean networks as a real point of connection with europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. cross-border connections must be strengthened, customs procedures harmonised and the results required by cop 21 shared. in addition, let us not forget the problem of road safety: in countries such as montenegro, the accidental mortality rate is still high. i therefore hope that efforts will be multiplied in all areas, particularly in transport, also in view of the western balkans summit to be held in trieste in july.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the five star movement was born and developed through the net. we, the spokesman for the european parliament, are living proof of this, because we are ordinary citizens who have come into contact on the net and have given birth to a new and revolutionary political community. the five star movement was born anticipating the future. we practice direct and electronic democracy, allowing citizens to choose their representatives online and giving citizens the ability to choose and amend bills. we are convinced that only through a sound use of the internet can we revive this european democracy, which is today increasingly held hostage by lobbies and multinationals. this is one of our main battles: that's our mission. you have finally understood this and this report on e-democracy proves it. finally, here in europe too, there is talk of how to bring citizens closer to the institutions and how to reduce the so-called democratic deficit. the report contains several interesting passages: the european parliament is invited to play a strong role in the implementation of e-democracy and to develop online platforms to put citizens in direct contact with the legislator. we in the five star movement already use our platform, which is called rousseau, and we are very pleased that the european parliament feels the need to use a similar instrument. or, again, when they urge the member states of the european union to provide decent media literacy and to eradicate the digital divide. finally, i am pleased that my suggestion to draw up a european charter of internet rights, which would formally enshrine internet access and net neutrality as fundamental rights, has been accepted. i therefore urge my colleagues to maintain this reference. today we write a beautiful page of democracy: i cannot therefore welcome this report, which represents an important first step towards the complete realisation of e-democracy at european level too.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the fruitful dialogue with him. i too believe that e-democracy is a tool that can strengthen citizen participation and prevent the oligarchic risks of democracy. i am less convinced by the analysis of the view of disaffection of the citizens: i don't think it's apathy, as the report says, because there's a lot of passion in today's waste. there is a call for change in them to be heard. e-democracy has proven to work: the re-writing of the icelandic constitution was partly done with the citizens, online. at the same time, i urge us to be careful in building this instrument which is added to the dangerous representative democracy. e-democracy is not synonymous with e-government, i would not like it to be adopted, falling from above, in order to better disseminate government opinions and sell them, creating a democracy even more protective than the one we already know. i believe that this report avoids that obstacle and is very positive, because it contains important and valuable elements, not least the proposal to draw up a european charter of internet rights on the model of the one adopted by the italian parliament in 2015.
member of the commission. – madam president, as this important report underlines, e-democracy is about grasping the potential of the internet to strengthen democracy in a digital environment. it is about empowering people and developing a digital public sphere. in the commission, we are trying to do our bit. we are promoting the use of online participatory platforms, for example the european citizens’ initiative, which allows direct participation in the development of eu policies. the refit exercise and the e-government action plan have created participatory platforms that engage european citizens directly in the decision-making process. projects such as d-cent demonstrate clearly that citizen-led organisations can transform democracy and help them to develop the next generation of open source, distributed, privacy-aware tools. the commission is looking at a pilot project, funded by the european parliament, on making the best use of modern technologies for more active and democratic voting procedures. but, as i think we have recognised in this discussion, for all of this to work you need digital skills and digital inclusion. in fact, if mr schöpflin had still been here, i would have been tempted to say that cyber-literacy could be a barrier to turkeys voting for christmas. one of the main challenges we face, therefore, is to bridge the digital divide that exists in some of our societies. that is going to require decisive action nationally and regionally as well as at the eu level in order to build the engagement and trust that is needed to underpin and reinforce our democracy. thank you, again, to the rapporteur for giving us this opportunity this evening to discuss this very important subject.
in writing. the report by my colleague is very good and deals with the subject of e-democracy without prejudice. 'electronic democracy' is presented as a useful tool to enrich and strengthen direct democracy and electronic voting as a useful practice if well designed. but the digital divide must be closed and access to the network must be made effective. at the same time, the network itself needs to be clearly regulated and we have noted with pleasure the reference to the charter of internet rights drawn up at italian level as a useful tool for this purpose. it is also essential to reinvigorate and make effective the first direct democracy instrument devised at eu level: the european citizens' initiative is a good example.
in writing. in the european union, political elites are aloof, self-referential, unable to provide effective answers to citizens. e-democracy could first of all promote and ensure greater information and transparency, but also increase the reliability, sense of responsibility, accessibility and participation of citizens, becoming an effective tool for social cohesion. citizen involvement can take place through governance, deliberation, participation, consultation and digital voting tools, with inclusive systems capable of having effects in terms of direct democracy, but also in terms of human capital and economic growth, as well as the efficiency of public administration. this can only be achieved if more substantial efforts are made than have been made so far, in particular in connecting all the union's territories, including rural and sparsely populated ones, and in digital literacy for all citizens, while also promoting the use of free and open source software. finally, some major challenges are the maintenance of net neutrality and the guarantee of the 360-degree security of the infrastructure and the internet, avoiding it from becoming a tool for intrusion and violation of privacy.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the collection of scientific data is essential for the implementation of the common fisheries policy, since it allows it to be based on the best scientific advice. the data are used to assess the state of fish stocks, the profitability of the various segments of the sector and the impact of fisheries and aquaculture on ecosystems. but data are also needed to evaluate eu policies: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. we need scientific data to apply good rules and effective fisheries management policies and we need data to assess whether these policies are working or whether they need to be changed and improved. for this reason, an eu framework for the collection and management of fisheries data was established in 2000, which became the data collection framework (dcf) in 2008, and represented an important step forward in the development of a harmonised set of union standards for the collection of biological, environmental, technical and socioeconomic data on fisheries, aquaculture and processing. the common fisheries policy requires us to manage fishing activities with due regard for their impact on the ecosystem. on this basis we need to build a deeper and more comprehensive understanding of marine ecosystems, so that we do not act blindly and only realise the consequences of our policies after they have emerged, often in a negative way. this is particularly important in order to achieve the maximum sustainable yield (msy) by 2020. maximum sustainable yield is a relatively new and very important concept, but it is based on numerical values which must be established in a scientific manner and on the basis of data, studies and research. the commission's proposal on this dossier was based on what was already working in the current data collection system, thus maintaining continuity but at the same time allowing for adaptation to new requirements. what we have achieved, thanks to the work we have done together with the shadow rapporteurs, with whom there has been a great deal of agreement on this report and a great deal of sharing especially in the difficult moments of the discussion with the council, is an expanded scope to include the collection of data for the protection of the marine environment, that is, data which are used to assess the impact of fishing on the marine ecosystem, including vulnerable marine areas and the most sensitive species and habitats. this, of course, together with the data needed for the sustainable management of all commercially exploited species and in particular for the achievement of good ecological status by 2020. we have included the need to cover those fisheries which are so called data deficient, i.e. without the necessary support of current scientific knowledge; we also wanted to make this data available to everyone: institutions, researchers, environmental associations and anyone interested in studying and evaluating them. but we have also set stricter deadlines for member states to respond to requests for data from end-users and other interested parties. we are moving towards regional databases, which is important because data is being collected on larger marine areas in a standardised and harmonised way. we will also collect data on aquaculture, both at biological and socioeconomic level; we're going to collect data on recreational fisheries, although in this case we've been partially defeated because it was important to include socioeconomic data, but we didn't do it. we have the environmental impact of recreational fishing. we insisted on reaching an adequate and comprehensive number of mandatory sea-based search campaigns to be established at union level and finally, after a long arm-wrestling with the council, we got most of the data collection framework, in particular the list of what data and what categories of data to collect, to be adopted by means of delegated acts. we have thus defended the prerogatives of the european parliament, which must be able to evaluate and decide on such important acts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a good rule is one which reconciles protection and development. to create these conditions, there is a great need to collect data, to know. we, as politicians, as representatives, cannot act if we do not know, because if a rule only acts on protection or only on development, it would create a total distinction with regard to the will of the policy. that is why i think this regulation is so important and i also thank mr affronte and all those who have worked on it, mr kuhn, because we can consider the common fisheries policy (cfp) as a great policy at our disposal. we cannot ignore the economic development in europe, especially in the coastal areas, where it is possible to combine more economic development under protection with a capacity not to undermine the harmony of such an important economy as fishing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this dossier is dealing with a very serious problem, especially in the mediterranean, a sea rich in resources but characterized by a serious lack of data to really know the state of health of our stocks. reform of the data collection framework is therefore crucial to achieving the objectives of the cfp and requires the efforts of member states to collect the data needed to assess the state of exploited marine biological resources, the level of fisheries and the impact of the latter on biological resources and also on marine ecosystems. the collection, management and use of data shall meet criteria of accuracy, reliability and timeliness. at the same time, it is necessary to avoid the collection of the same data for different purposes, as this would lead to an unnecessary waste of resources. in this connection, i welcome the proposal to set up a european scientific data network to use the information collected in accordance with the assessment to be made and so that it can also be exchanged with third countries. the issue is very complex and at the same time closely linked to the need to manage fisheries activities, taking into account their impact on ecosystems, and should therefore be managed according to the principle of regionalisation. in addition, there is still much to be discovered about the sea and its resources. scientific knowledge is essential for efficient and far-sighted management, but it is not enough. there is still a lot to be done on this too.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the collection of data is essential for the implementation of the common fisheries policy, because it allows it to be based on objective and scientific advice. in addition to assessing the state of fish stocks, the profitability of the various segments of the sector and the impact of fisheries and aquaculture on the ecosystem, data are needed to assess eu policies such as fisheries management and mitigation measures. the creation of supranational regional databases, through regional coordination groups, is important in order to have aggregated and comparable data. in the adriatic sea, for example, the data for italy, slovenia and croatia will be evaluated together. the data will be available to all institutions, researchers, environmental associations and anyone interested in studying and evaluating them. for the first time, data from other sectors that impact on the marine ecosystem, such as recreational fisheries and aquaculture, will also be included in the framework for data collection and management. this is an important step forward which will contribute to the sustainable development of fisheries, thus limiting the impact on the marine ecosystem.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to say thank you to the parliament for prioritising the work on the recast regulation on data collection and, in particular, thank you to the rapporteur and his team for their work. i will make sure i give a full account of this discussion to commissioner vella. we provided for transitional arrangements so that immediately after adoption and publication of the recast there is no legal vacuum. the current multiannual programme for data collection will remain applicable until replaced by a new one. there have been a couple of comments about data storage. i would just record that basic storage of data will remain at member state level and member states will remain responsible for ensuring that good quality data is available for end-users. the current multiannual programme was adopted last summer and it was already updated with many of the new requirements. so, there is no need to replace it urgently. the member states’ work plans for data collection were approved last summer. member states will already have started collecting data accordingly. when important modifications are needed, member states will need to resubmit the work plans for approval in the normal way. meanwhile, member states have already started to transition from regional coordination meetings to regional coordination groups, ensuring more continuity and better involving the relevant end-users in data collection. in summary, by the end of 2017 we expect the new legal framework for data collection to be operational for collecting all data needed for what i take to be our shared objective, the effective implementation and monitoring of the cfp. thank you.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few remarks. i would say that, apart from a few out-of-the-way voices, there is a great deal of agreement on this report, not only on the importance of scientific data - it has been repeated many times indeed - but also - and i thank those who have expressed themselves in this way - on the consensus on the work we have done and what we have been able to achieve. i also thank the commission for clarifying a point which i would have clarified, namely that the data are not centralised but remain at the level of the member states, although i believe that the speeches we heard, especially from the far right, were from people who did not actually read the document but who only made their 'classic' speech. that said, i'd like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who worked with me on this dossier: there was a great deal of agreement among the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups. we have done a very good job, we have tried to do things efficiently but also quickly, because we know that the member states need to be able to start the collection as soon as possible. we have been caught up, unexpectedly, for a few months with the council in the discourse on the allocation of powers between delegated and implementing acts and, in the end, as some have said, we have come out of it in a very effective and elegant way. it is clear that to have good fisheries policies and to achieve the objective of sustainable fishing, both from an environmental and socioeconomic point of view, we cannot do without a deep knowledge of the fisheries resources we are going to exploit and the consequences of our decisions and actions on the marine environment, resources and the economic sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this is not the first resolution we have tabled on zimbabwe: the case of pastor mawarire is unfortunately not an isolated case. the european union's restrictive measures against the zimbabwean regime were renewed in february 2017 for a period of one year, as was the arms embargo, while the asset freeze and travel ban will continue to apply to president mugabe. at the same time, the european union, through the national indicative programme for zimbabwe, has allocated eur 234 million for the period 2014-2020. i think we must act, by making use of these instruments at our disposal if we are to see any improvement or any significant progress in the area of human rights, because unfortunately we have not seen any of the resolutions we have passed before. evan mawarire must be able to enjoy the same fundamental and inalienable rights and freedoms as any other citizen of zimbabwe and the same must apply to all political prisoners arrested solely for expressing dissent against a government, against which there is no other choice but to dissent.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we too support this resolution as an act of support for the struggle for freedom and democracy of these african leaders who are subjected to corrupt and bloody regimes. there are some doubts, however: the european union undertakes to monitor that the aid for the national indicative programme reaches the sectors for which it is intended. this is not done regularly, either in zimbabwe or in other countries. the european union must make a serious and concrete commitment to ensure that this eur 234 million in aid goes not to the corrupt but to the people. and then what about the compensation owed to farmers who were violently expropriated, with terrible acts, by the military forces that came from the war of independence? and then mugabe's blatantly racist statements against white people: why don't they just convict them in black and white?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, zimbabwe is going through a deep economic crisis, with a very high unemployment rate and widespread corruption at every level of government and politics. some citizens, since last summer, have started to respond with numerous anti-government demonstrations. in this climate, the activist for the rights of the most disadvantaged, baptist pastor evan mawarire, considered the martin luther king of zimbabwe, has become the symbol of the protest, which calls for transparency in the action of government and dignity for every citizen of zimbabwe. for his political activity mawarire was arrested on charges of conspiracy against the state. the pastor is now on parole but faces up to 20 years. the subversion charge was called completely fabricated by his lawyers. it is clear that the trial of the opposition leader in zimbabwe is only responding to the political needs of the incumbent government. the european union and the international community must play an active role in ensuring the immediate release of evan mawarire and the restoration of democratic viability in the country.
in writing. the arrest of pastor evan mawarire, in view of the clear politicization of the charges against him, appears to be a use by the zimbabwean authorities of the criminal justice system to target human rights defenders. in zimbabwe, non-violent expression of opinion is a constitutional right for all citizens and it is the duty of the authorities to protect it, however, for many years the people of zimbabwe have been oppressed by an authoritarian regime led by president mugabe, who remains in power through corruption and violence. it is important that the eu engages in a political dialogue with the zimbabwean authorities, in the framework of the cotonou agreement, to provide support to the local population.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not long since the last resolution on the present alarming situation in the philippines and, unfortunately, no progress has been made. president duterte's war on drugs has caused more than 7,500 civilian casualties. the government has acted with impunity and indiscriminately, killing virtually everyone. the victims include not only drug traffickers but also children and innocent people. the effects of this ruthless campaign are destroying entire families: the war on drugs has become a full-blown civil war, with the only difference that the people are watching this carnage helpless and terrified and have no way to react. now, under the pretext of the war on drugs, the government is also trying to silence critics and opponents of the regime. finally, the story of senator leila de lima, who openly expressed her disagreement with the repressive and criminal policy carried out by the president since the time when she was still mayor of davao city. i expect a strong reaction from the european union this time, because we really cannot afford to continue to witness this extermination.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since duterte took office as president on 30 june 2016, his war on drugs has begun and there have been as many as 7,000 killings by police or paramilitary vigilantes. a brutal campaign, which will continue until 2022, where drug users or small fish are really hit while drug lords remain untouched. the new victim is senator de lima, a long-time justice and human rights senator and chair of the committee who was arrested on drug charges. it just so happens that the same senator was the author of an investigation into the extrajudicial killing of more than a thousand people in davao, a city where duterte was mayor for a long time. the most classic of methods has removed an uncomfortable character from the political scene and the worst is yet to come. on march 7th, the house of representatives passed a bill to restore the death penalty for serious drug crimes, and there is no doubt that it will pass. we must respond firmly to the provocations of a president who has compared himself to hitler, who has pointed the middle finger at the eu and who instigates the killing of drug users and who jokes about rape and murder. so we must immediately suspend the gs+ preferences for the country and we must demand that senator de lima be released and protected because she is innocent.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 march 2017.
i would like to express on behalf of the european parliament our condolences and solidarity with the colombian people following the tragedy in mocoa. the mud and water avalanche has claimed many lives and there are also two europeans missing. i would therefore like to express the closeness and support of this parliament to colombia, its citizens and, in particular, to the families of the deceased.
i would also like to express the european parliament's condolences and solidarity with the russian people and the city of st petersburg for today's attack, which caused many deaths and injuries. to protect our citizens, it is important that we cooperate more and more in the fight against all forms of terrorism.
i inform you that the president of the eurogroup, mr dijsselbloem, has once again declined our invitation to take part in the plenary debate on greece. i would like to stress that, even if there is no legal obligation for him to take part in our work, it might be expected that someone who asks european citizens to make huge sacrifices would also feel duty-bound to answer to their representatives. (loud applause)this is also a question of common courtesy.
in accordance with rule 166 of the rules of procedure and after hearing the person concerned, i have decided to impose a sanction on mr pedicini for using insulting and offensive language towards other members of the european parliament during his speech in the chamber on 14 march 2017. the penalty is loss of entitlement to the residence allowance for a period of two days. the decision was notified to the member concerned, who apologised for the words used in his speech.
let us now get down to business. the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on wednesday 29 march 2017, was distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda: the statement by the president of the eurogroup on the state of play of the second review of the economic adjustment programme for greece is replaced, due to the decision of the president of the eurogroup, by statements by the council and the commission with the same title and at the same time slot. are there any objections?
the socialist group's position on this issue is very clear: we have expressed this in the conference of presidents on several occasions when we said that it was unacceptable that mr dijsselbloem chose not to come to parliament. we're going to repeat that now. we have said long before mr weber that the interview given by mr dijsselbloem about the mediterranean regions of europe spending money on women and alcohol was shameful and scandalous, but also reckless and shameful towards women. and dijsselbloem has shown with that interview but also before that that he does not have the attitudes to be the president of the eurogroup. that is the position of the socialist group. this is the position of many of the socialist leaders. i hope that this is also the position of the christian-democratic leaders, who have been the real supporters of dijsselbloem up to now.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group, the efdd, is also displeased by the words of the president of the eurogroup. what he said was outrageous. we also think you should resign as soon as possible. it is up to the heads of state to take a decision now, but we find it scandalous that he has not accepted an invitation from this parliament to speak about a situation as grave as that of greece, a country in the south which he has insulted with his words, and we would have liked, in addition to debating this with him, perhaps to give him some notes on what his words were. we now expect a reaction from the president and from all the groups.
so this is a proposal for the agenda? do you have any suggestions?
i am proud to preside over a parliament which unanimously rejects the attempt by the president of the eurogroup to ignore a request, even if it is not obligatory, from the representatives of the peoples of europe. i shall send a formal letter of protest to the president of the eurogroup, telling him that the european parliament, by unanimity, does not accept such an attitude from someone who plays such an important role. on monday, mr caspary and a number of members equal to the low threshold asked that the oral question on the commission's replies to the written questions to the commission be added as a second item after the oral question on trafficking in human beings. i'll give the floor to mr. caspary to make the request.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask on behalf of the enf group that tomorrow afternoon, after the debate on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, a debate on the ashworth report 'predicted state of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2018 section i european parliament' be added as the fifth item on the agenda. the duration of the work, therefore, as you said, should be extended to midnight. i think it is essential to discuss in this house and before the citizens of europe how this institution manages its budget. transparency must always be guaranteed, and i see no reason why this unusual procedure, which deprives parliament of one of its greatest prerogatives, should be chosen this year. i therefore ask that this amendment be put to the vote by roll-call.
is there anyone you want to take action against? we put to the vote by roll call the request by the europe of nations and freedom group for a debate on the report by mr ashworth on the estimated revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2018 - section i - european parliament. the vote is open. the vote is closed. the motion is rejected, so the agenda is not changed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the alde group has asked that this statement be added as the sixth item, after the report by mr vajgl on the 2016 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the s&d group has requested that this statement be added as the fifth point, following the commission's statement on the adequacy of the protection afforded by the eu-us privacy shield (no resolution). the ppe group has asked for this statement to be added as the fourth item, after mr gabriel's report on third countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa or are exempt from that requirement: the ukraine. the debate will also be concluded by a resolution, which will be voted on at the april part-session. i now give the floor to some representatives of the alde group to explain the proposal. or shall we go straight to the vote? is it enough how i've illustrated it? mr. pimenta lopes, do you want to intervene against this?
i have always followed the votes of the house, the documents approved by the house. all votes were cast by a large majority: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. and in this respect the european parliament has always expressed itself in this direction. so i have only expressed the position of the european parliament. i think that there is a large majority of people who are still going in that direction. mr becerra basterrechea, did you ask to speak?
we shall now vote and then see what the house decides. the first vote concerns the possibility of adding a statement by the commission on the situation in venezuela on wednesday afternoon. the majority is in favour of the inclusion of a new item on the agenda. we must now vote on the question of when the declaration is to be introduced into the debate. as requested by the alde group: as the sixth item, after the report by mr vajgl; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so let us vote first on the alde proposal, as the sixth item. the motion is denied. the s&d group proposes this as the fifth point. the motion is denied. you want to check? let us examine the socialist proposal, and then the fifth point. the vote is closed. the motion is denied. as requested by the ppe group, as a fourth point. the motion is carried. so it will be inserted as the fourth item. i now put to the vote the request of the ppe group that the debate be followed by a resolution, which will be voted on at the april part-session. i think the house is in favour, but let us check. the epp proposal is approved. so let's sum it up: the commission's statement on wednesday afternoon, as the fourth item, after mr gabriel's report, followed by a resolution to be voted on at the april part-session.
mr ferrand, you will be able to say whatever you want during the debate and your group will be able to express all its views on this matter. the agenda is so fixed. i would like to say that we have not received any request to amend the final agenda, so let us move on.
the next item is the debate on: - question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the european solidarity corps by petra kammerevert, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000020/2017 - b8-0210/2017), and- question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the european solidarity corps by thomas händel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000022/2017 - b8-0211/2017).
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner navracsics, we welcomed the proposal for a european solidarity corps put forward by mr juncker in his state of the union address, in response to the need to strengthen the common sense of belonging and responsibility of young europeans in situations of aid, social commitment, response to specific needs of local or emergency communities, on the basis of a public appeal addressed directly to young people and in collaboration with national and european ngos, but which have acquired specific experience in the field of civil service or civil protection, or volunteering, and which enable them to live a period of commitment in countries, i hope, other than their own or, to a certain extent, also in their own country. however, i would remind you that the conclusions of the council under the italian presidency called for the creation of a european civil service, in addition to the eeas, but distinct from it. a pilot project for this purpose, known as the ivo, was already launched in 2016 and involves three participating countries and four observer countries. perhaps it would be helpful to see this experience as the foundation of the new body. it is important to listen to european ngos, as our resolution said, before defining their nature and tasks. we are asking in our resolution that this initiative be launched with a defined legal basis, as already mentioned, with dedicated resources, preferably in collaboration, i believe, also with the national youth agencies, without taking funds from existing programmes which are also underestimated economically, as is happening in the current experiment which has actually seen - and this is an important response - over 25 000 young people responding to the call. however, i believe that the corps, if it is a solidarity corps, should not be confused with the volunteering of the european voluntary service, which in its 20 years of history has been a reference framework for european and extra-european volunteering, in collaboration with national and accredited ngos, and not even with eu aid volunteers. i think it is also important to specify the different nature of this body, which must of course maintain a profile of civic service, albeit with reimbursements and insurance guarantees, but taking into account - and i end by saying - specific vocations and also possibly employability that is at stake. in italy, for example, it is also used in part as one of the many options of the youth guarantee, as you mentioned. but it must be very clear that this must be aimed above all at promoting european citizenship and solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, among the many tricks and announcements with which the juncker commission is trying to mask its substantial political vacuum, this proposal from the european solidarity corps has at least the merit of having met with the enthusiastic response of thousands of young european citizens. in order not to disappoint these hopes, the commission must remove many ambiguities and many dangers from this proposal. my colleagues have already spoken about this, and i will not repeat it: the risk of duplicating the work of others, the risk of providing tools for the further exploitation of the youth workforce. finally, it is absolutely unacceptable that this new body should be financed by erasmus funds. it is not possible to spread rivers of rhetoric about the wonders of erasmus and then use the already scarce resources of this programme as an atm to finance something else.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe needs to think of new ways of meeting the ambitions of its young people. the european solidarity corps should be a bridge between the worlds of training and work, offering valuable training and experience for those taking part, but it needs to be thought out to avoid abuse of the system. the world of work is riddled with exploitation masked by training courses, which are fuelling precariousness, the wage gap and further undermining young people's confidence in europe's future. and this happens particularly frequently in places where youth unemployment is highest. the establishment of the european solidarity corps is an important opportunity to structure a transparent and up-to-date european programme, but we must send a clear message: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the talk about volunteering and the european solidarity corps is certainly a positive thing. who can say otherwise? however, i cannot help but notice that there is a great deal of hypocrisy in the way these issues are dealt with, and a profound disconnect from reality, especially when i think of the living conditions of millions of european citizens, especially those in the south. the resolution, for example, solemnly enshrines the principle of solidarity, which means sharing the benefits and the disadvantages, and states as its objective the creation of a sense of community, solidarity and social responsibility. these are beautiful words, but they are contradicted by what has happened in the recent past and what is still happening in southern europe. i have not forgotten what happened to greece, which was crushed by the impositions of the troika, nor the alarming figures concerning youth unemployment and the poverty rate, which is 17%. there are an estimated 40 million poor people in europe. volunteering is a noble activity, but our job... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by expressing my thanks to all of you for this opportunity to discuss with you the very important and sensitive issue of trafficking in human beings. the european parliament has been a strong and consistent supporter of our efforts to deal with this odious and appalling crime. it is a crime that takes advantage of the vulnerability and exploits the desperation of people in need of protection and support. as you know, trafficking was and remains a priority for us as reflected both in the european agenda on migration and in the european agenda on security. europe has globally a leading role in this field. we have developed a coherent and coordinated legal and policy framework to address trafficking in human beings. the anti-trafficking directive and the 2012-2016 eu strategy has been our main instruments to develop, coordinate and implement our policy framework priorities. having delivered on the vast majority of actions envisaged in this strategy we do not feel that our job is done; quite the opposite. we cannot accept that irrespective of origin there are still and unfortunately more children, women, vulnerable people trafficked, abused and exploited. these are victims of the immoral and inhuman profit-making face of our societies. now that the 2012-2016 strategy has come to an end the time has come to step up our efforts and continue delivering more intensively and in a more focused way. to this end the support and contribution of this house, of all of you, is of utmost importance. the migration crisis and transnational security threats render people more vulnerable to criminal networks and exploitation. that is why more needs to be done to target the organised criminal networks and follow their money throughout the trafficking chain, to focus more on prevention and on better identification and protection of victims, to further strengthen coordination at eu level and to ensure more coherence in the external and internal dimensions of our anti-trafficking policy. criminal networks target and exploit the most vulnerable. recent data indicate that the vast majority of victims are female and children. the most widespread form of exploitation is sexual exploitation, with mainly women and young girls as victims. that is why the anti-trafficking directive has a strong gender-specific dimension, and that is why we have also commissioned a study on the gender dimensions of trafficking in human beings. it is also of major importance to increase our cooperation with third countries and further streamline our anti-trafficking priorities in the external dimension of our policies. the two distinct notions of trafficking and smuggling are often confused. however, it is not only a matter of the correct use of terminology. it is also about ensuring a victim-centred and human rights based approach. allow me to clarify here that smuggling is a cross-border activity while trafficking can also take place within the borders of a state. in smuggling there is consent of the smuggled person while in trafficking there is not. the exploitation of the vulnerable victim for profit making is an essential element in trafficking. these differences bear significant implications for the rights of the victims of trafficking and the respective obligations of member states. i would like to assure you that the respective eu legislative frameworks on smuggling and trafficking will remain clear and constant in any future policy initiative. regarding now the two reports based on the anti-trafficking directive presented by the commission last december we will continue to proactively monitor the situation in the member states and examine potential options. to conclude, and as far as our next steps are concerned, we are currently taking stock of the experience and achievements of the current strategy, examining trends and problems and assessing and discussing with stakeholders what future actions from all the different policy areas are needed. our aim is to address the challenges created by the changing socio-political context. but we also want to maintain a coordinated, coherent and constant approach in the continuation of the efforts to fight this extremely pernicious but highly lucrative form of crime. the reflections and contributions of this house are of great importance for our work and i am looking forward with particular interest to our discussion today.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for the commission's commitment to this very serious subject. i heard my colleagues say, quite rightly: "women and children, who are vulnerable people". no, women are not vulnerable. they're made vulnerable by men, by the criminal networks that sell them. in addition, 80% of the minors are female and the other 20% are male. so it's a huge problem, a problem that's connected to other factors as well, not just the prostitution factor. i would like to introduce another theme: it is almost a taboo, but when it comes to children, there is a real danger, even for children who disappear - we mentioned unaccompanied foreign children - from organ trafficking. we took care of it. when i was chairman of the committee on children and adolescents in the senate, we discussed this issue with the minister of the interior in italy. so it is important that everything that can and must be done be done. the economic commitment: they are often exploited people. they arrive, when they're sold, who have already been abused, abused in ways that have never been seen before. they 're in economic weakness: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we have to fight this too. the last thing is bound looks unbound, but is bound: we also fight for equal economic treatment of women with men: this is slavery, too.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. as already mentioned, the european parliament, together with the council, adopted a directive some time ago which aims to tackle and solve the problem through a multilateral approach, not only to combat trafficking in human beings, but also to prevent it and to ensure protection for the victims of such abuse. you see, commissioner, we agree with you on the description of the problem. where we're not is on the prescription. as you know, not all member states have fully transposed the directive and this terrible abuse continues even within our own borders. and so the task before us is very clear: the european union must be able to take action quickly to develop a new strategy which is much more effective and capable of tackling this tragic problem, while fully safeguarding human rights and human dignity.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most convincing definitions of human trafficking, even from a legal point of view, is contained in the additional protocol to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime, better known as the 'palermo protocol', which outlines its characteristic elements, namely the threat or use of force or other forms of coercion to recruit people for the purpose of exploiting them. today, as far as the trafficking from africa is concerned, there is a strong emergency certainly from the western part, but also from the horn of africa. it is clear that the risk of trafficking in these products is particularly high for vulnerable people, particularly children. but there is one aspect which i think has been under-emphasized, even in the commissioner's reply, and which is reflected in the data collected by the international organisation for migration (iom), which shows a worrying reality, as more than 70% of migrants in transit from north africa to europe are victims of trafficking, organ trafficking and other forms of exploitation. this is a reality that we have denounced many times, but where is europe? have you noticed that your immigration policy, your hypocritical open door policy, these disparate policies, actually encourage this trafficking? and so it is useless to debate these things here when nothing is being done to close the borders to smugglers and we are relying on certain soros-funded ngos to intervene in favour of immigrants and migrants, under who knows what conditions, and then perhaps relying on turkey to take in migrants who wanted to reach europe from other places. that's a good result.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, eurostat data for the last three years show that in the european union about 80% of the victims of human trafficking are women. the primary motivation is related to sexual exploitation, but there are various aspects that are not sufficiently addressed and that end up limiting the problem to the different forms of prostitution, when this is not the case. i am talking, for example, about early marriages or sham marriages, so-called sham marriages, contracted by families in the skin of young girls, or the trafficking of pregnant women for the sale and illegal adoption of newborns. all this is happening within the member states. and this is a trend that is bound to increase with the growth of migration flows and asylum requests. the search for legal residence within the union will lead to an increase in forced marriages, according to europol. we must protect these girls by preventing them, for example, from being sent back to their home countries during school holidays and finding themselves married off at an early age to men much older than themselves. it is necessary to draw attention to these situations, which cannot be tolerated by hiding behind respect for another culture, because those who marry a girl commit a tremendous violence, not only sexual, against her, but also rob her forever of the possibility of loving and living as a free woman.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, despite the adoption in 2011 of the directive on the prevention and repression of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims, the phenomenon remains very serious if, as attested by a study by the united nations high commissioner for refugees, 70% of migrants in transit from north africa to europe are victims of trafficking, organ trafficking, prostitution and other forms of exploitation. of course, the most vulnerable are children, particularly unaccompanied children, and women. human trafficking is one of the most serious crossborder crimes, but it is also one of the most lucrative for criminal organisations, being the third largest source of income after arms and drugs. so what? the commission must therefore take more decisive measures to ensure that all member states fully transpose the directive, and a new strategy on trafficking in human beings is needed which, in line with the current migration agenda, can effectively combat this very serious crime.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking is a terrible form of modern slavery. the prevention and suppression of this phenomenon must be a top priority for the european union, and an extraordinary effort by the international community is needed to eliminate these inhuman forms of exploitation. the intolerable phenomenon of human trafficking is not only the result of economic and social inequalities, but also of gender inequality. structural discrimination means that 80% of the victims are women: women, girls, and often children. the phenomenon of migration often overlaps with that of the tracts. the smuggling of migrants... (the president urged the speaker to speak more slowly) migrant smuggling and trafficking in human beings, while representing different phenomena, often tend to become complementary. it is a drama within a drama, a problem which is added to the others and which requires the adoption of specific and targeted strategic measures. it is therefore absolutely imperative that a comprehensive strategy be put in place to put an end to this absurd humanitarian tragedy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you of the great effort with which parliament adopted the directive on human trafficking in 2011 as a violation of fundamental human rights, the enslavement of people, both sexually and for work, which, as we have said, involves the absolute majority of women and a growing number of children, especially unaccompanied children. the resolution calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. i would remind you that it was envisaged that member states could take measures against those who knowingly use the sexual or labour services of victims of trafficking. but it is urgent that the commission, as the commissioner said earlier, strongly urges the member states which have not yet done so - and they are the majority - to transpose the directive, because otherwise there is no point in having european coordination and national coordinators in place if there are free zones for exploiters. the 2016 report shows that the number of unidentified victims is still high, which remains in a situation of invisibility, also because they are confused with illegal immigration and this is drawing attention to the status of victims.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, palm oil is a dangerous product that causes enormous damage. europe is the world's second largest importer of this product, but precisely because of this it is also in a position to dictate the rules on the international market for this product and to demand respect for human rights and the environment far more than any convention or agreement. the commission has already made a number of recommendations in this connection. differentiated customs duties to reward those who produce in a sustainable way; full traceability of palm oil throughout the supply chain to understand who is actually producing in compliance with the rules; and finally, we called for the use of free trade agreements to promote clear and binding rules on sustainable development, the environment and human rights in producing countries. this means putting trade at the service of the weakest. i thank the rapporteur and the whole committee on the environment for having decided to adopt our main recommendations and to reflect them in the final text, which will certainly have our support.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done and that we have done in recent months to deal with a subject which is certainly important, which has to do with the environment, which has to do with people's health, but which should have been dealt with with the seriousness and also the depth of the work that was required. in fact, the question of palm oil and the need for it to be grown in a sustainable way has opened our eyes to realities such as indonesia, where respect for the environment is not always guaranteed, but it has also made us understand that there are other countries in southeast asia - in particular we are referring to other realities, other states - where we have found and have found greater respect for the environment, greater education, greater maturity, greater sensitivity, greater awareness of the need to ensure that production is made in a sustainable way and that it is done in respect for the environment. this is fundamental if we think of countries like malaysia, which have also made important investments to differentiate themselves from those who have been elements of exploitation, of disrespect for the environment of these productions. and while we have seen some countries make positive differences, we must not forget - because we are here in the european parliament - that the major european industries which have used palm oil in europe over the years have always done so in a self-sufficient and voluntary respect for this sustainable balance. we will now provide traceability, we will provide labelling, we will provide the pathway for palm oil from where it is produced to where it is consumed. we know, and we must know, that large italian and european companies have already done so, and have done so voluntarily, because of their commitment, because sensitivity is a sensitivity to using a product which is not harmful in itself, because it is a vegetable oil that exists in nature, but which must be used and marketed in a way that respects the environment.
on behalf of the efdd group. the disastrous effects of uncontrolled palm oil cultivation are plain to see. in the producing countries, despite much proclamation, there is still a lack of a change of course to stop the destruction of the rain forests, which provide invaluable ecosystem services for us and for future generations. of course, palm oil is not the only cause of global deforestation, we all know that. the report we are discussing here, however, points out a clear path we must follow for this and other products, which still correspond to a massive and unsustainable model of production and consumption, which is antithetical to the use and promotion of organic, quality ingredients and products, preferably at zero mileage. i would also like to see this report adopted tomorrow because it incorporates many of the demands that the five star movement has put forward in the work of the committee on the environment. i want to mention two of them. the first: the need to support land surveys in producer countries to control plantation expansion and to create ecological corridors dedicated to the conservation of critically endangered species. secondly: the request to freeze oil palm areas and to introduce a moratorium on new concessions as part of the dialogue between the union and the member states with producer countries to safeguard the remaining rainforests. i thank my colleague, ms kateřina konečná, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can all agree on one thing today: we need to use palm oil that is produced in a sustainable way and we need to stop this deforestation, especially in indonesia. but there are many other things that are not understandable, and that is where we differ. i would remind you that palm oil is grown not only in malaysia and indonesia but also in 17 other countries in the equatorial region, and it provides economic livelihood for millions of people. and then we have to remember -- as has been mentioned before -- that if we replace palm oil with other vegetable oils, we're going to consume even more land, because palm oil has a yield that's five to eleven times higher than many other oils. and then you don't have to talk to the industry, you just have to talk to the technicians and the nutritionists to understand that palm oil has many properties that are also good for health, for example, because palm oil, being practically solid at room temperature, does not need hydrogenation and therefore is more suitable for limiting, for example, the risks of cardiovascular diseases than trans fatty acids derived from the hydrogenation process. there are many qualities of this oil, and it cannot be replaced, for example, by butter - and i see a trade war below - because butter contains slightly more saturated fatty acids, rancidity is faster and would therefore shorten the life of the products. so, to conclude, our message is this: the solution is not to boycott palm oil, but to buy it sustainably, and to make sure it's traceable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner, but i must say that we are concerned by what he has said because it is clear from what he has said that we know nothing about the past. he talked about the future, what we're gonna do, but not what it was. we have become aware of this scandal thanks to the brazilian investigative authorities. and then i ask myself: how did the european customs react? it has already happened in the past that something has come to europe through european ports that was not supposed to come. i am referring, for example, to the case of xylella. i wonder whether this is a lack of attention or a desire to introduce products into the european market and then create pockets of unfair competition. this approach is not good for us. we have no assurance from the brazilian health authorities that they are part of the process that caused this scandal of spoiled meat. and we don't know where we've gotten to. we don't know where this meat came from, we don't know who ate it, we don't know if it hurts, we don't know anything. so, beyond the proposals for the future, i hope we will also have information to know whether we have today undermined the health of european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in the face of the scandal which has engulfed the meat sector in brazil in recent weeks, we strongly urge the commission to take prompt measures to protect the health of european consumers, and we call on the brazilian authorities to cooperate fully in ascertaining responsibility and safeguarding their credibility. but let me stress that what we are discussing today is a serious trade fraud, which should not be used as an excuse for a possible stop to the negotiations with mercosur. on the other hand, an agreement can provide a more solid legal framework for the protection of european citizens. the negotiations are now at a crucial stage, and while others are proposing trade wars and protectionism, we should not miss the opportunity to strengthen the already existing links with this strategic area for the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the scandal we are discussing requires serious reflection on two separate but closely related aspects. on the one hand, the protection of our consumers, for which a harmonized approach between the member states with increased controls is urgently needed, not only on incoming meat but also on consignments already imported from brazil; on the other hand, there are the standards that our operators must meet, which make european products the healthiest and safest in the world. however, compliance with these standards, which we as europeans should be proud of, implies heavy costs and sacrifices for union producers, often putting them at a competitive disadvantage compared to our global competitors. we therefore call, commissioner, for a more transparent market to be guaranteed, also through the trade agreements currently being negotiated and those to be negotiated in the future, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity at international level of the quality standards applied by the union. only in this way will we really take advantage of the growth approach that can be given by an expansion of trade without reducing the protections enjoyed by our consumers.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to start with this very simple question: who is responsible? me! i am responsible. i am required to do my best and to be responsible in this situation. i would like to continue my work in this style. of course it is not about a trade war, it is not about protectionism, i fully agree with all of you. it is about food safety, about trust, about reliability, predictability and effectiveness of official controls in brazil and here. of course the fraud was in brazil, and we all know very well how it is difficult to detect fraud because we have our own experience when we are speaking about the horsemeat scandal. now it is very difficult to detect fraud on the ground and the brazilian police authorities did it. of course we will ask the minister once again to provide us with very informative, very detailed information. we will look at such a response from the brazilian side. as you know, in brazil they have only three states which have the right to use the european certificate. twenty-one establishments were involved in this situation. only four establishments were involved in that scandal. of course we will see how to monitor the situation. this is why we have asked to check, to reinforce controls here in the eu – because we are speaking about the past and not only about the future – but we will ask member states to follow all situations and once again to provide very reliable information after official and enforced controls here in our union. then we will ask also to see how to introduce stricter rules today. we organised two immediate meetings with senior officials, with senior veterinary officials and they all agreed about such a harmonised approach at the moment. as you know, we do not rule out the adoption too of further measures should the situation so require, be it through the outcome of the import controls, the commission’s audit in brazil or the information provided by brazil, and i am ready to inform you after a few months about the situation because it is about food safety, about consumer protection, about our trust and reliability. of course, there is no doubt we will do our best in this way, but it is not about war between the eu and brazil, about war between the eu and mercosur. this is not the situation when we are speaking about a rule-based trade agreement. a rule-based trade agreement! you need to understand that the eu-mercosur agreement must be based on rules and of course we will guarantee all possibilities to provide clear instruments to defend food safety standards. of course you ask me about statistics. such statistics are available. i can send you this information additionally. just to illustrate: in 2016 imports from brazil of bovine animals meat was eur 449 million and of poultry eur 163 million. as i mentioned, of course, you also know that we have a rapid alert system and in this rapid alert system they have all the figures. i do not know about some figures which were mentioned here, they are not in line with our figures which we have in our rapid alert system. i would like to respond to all of your questions in more detail, but i will be more than happy to continue our discussions and then to provide you addition information after the audit, after the response from the brazilian side and also after collection of additional new information in the eu.
in writing. the brazilian rotten meat scandal is so global that china and south korea have adopted import-blocking measures. the eu has so far only threatened to take the same measures. it is necessary that european intervention be urgent, by blocking all imports of brazilian meat, not just the meat produced and processed by the farms involved in the scandal. does the commission intend to take action in this respect? and then again: is the commission monitoring that infected meat has not already reached supermarkets and/or the tables of european citizens, who have the right to the public protection of their health?
in writing. after two years of investigation, the brazilian federal police has uncovered serious fraud and systematic corruption in some meat processing companies. the brazilian regulators are said to have deliberately ignored violations of the most basic defence and food safety standards. we are talking about the falsification of export certificates and health authorizations, to which is added the use of chemicals to improve the appearance and smell of expired meat. it even seems that salmonella-contaminated meat has been imported into europe, treated with ascorbic acid to hide its appearance. these are clear violations of european standards. it is a huge failure in the proper management of the food chain, and it is even more serious because it comes after the assurances about the effectiveness of controls, which were also given to this house during the debate on ceta. the credibility of europe is seriously undermined by these events, which are unacceptable criminal acts that must be countered with strict and timely measures to safeguard the health of consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress made in recent years, women in rural areas still have difficulties in accessing the labour market and decision-making bodies. in order for women to benefit from aid schemes in the agricultural sector, their role in the enterprise must first be recognised. the guarantee of social protection for women in agriculture is an essential element in contributing to modern and sustainable rural development. the vocational development, training and upgrading of women in agriculture are also essential elements in ensuring the development of farms. equality between women and men is a fundamental objective of the european union and its member states. to achieve this in agriculture and rural areas, it is essential to mainstream the gender dimension in the cap and cohesion policies in rural areas, as well as new actions aimed at encouraging women's participation in the labour market in rural areas under the eafrd.
in writing. the gender dimension is also an instrument applicable to the eu structural and investment funds, including the eafrd, and the inclusion of women in education and stem is conducive to achieving gender equality in different areas. in addition, maintaining an active population is of great importance for the conservation of the environment and ecosystems, and rural tourism is a source of employment and an incentive for the population to stay in the area. given that more than 2 million family farms disappeared in the eu between 2005 and 2010, the importance of this issue is understandable and the report presented aims to highlight the multifunctional and active role of women in rural areas as promoters of sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture. the eu and member states are called upon to support and encourage access to the labour market for women in rural areas, and to include policies focused on the contribution made by women themselves in their rural development programmes, so as to increase their participation in the cap as beneficiaries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, autism affects as many as five million people in europe, and the figures show an increasing trend. autism causes significant disability for those affected and upsets entire families. autism is less scary to talk about today than it was in the past. many barriers have fallen, there is a widespread sensitivity, there is a greater awareness, thanks also to initiatives such as the world autism awareness day, which was celebrated yesterday. however, much remains to be done in terms of research, in terms of care and quality of life for these people and their families. a strategic response by the european institutions is needed and can no longer be delayed, also in the light of the written declaration on autism adopted by this parliament in 2015. the european union must be able to respond adequately to the challenge of autism and ensure adequate assistance to people with autism and their families. we can't turn our backs on those who are suffering.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 'dieselgate' scandal is yet another example of a europe torn apart, fragmented, permeated and driven by industrial interests, devoured by national selfishness, conflicts of interest and a disastrous silence. the final report of the committee of inquiry, which i think is a good document, clearly denounces the complete failure of europe to ensure that there are really clean cars in our cities, as we are presented with in the blistering television commercials. but the news is only half good. the final report lacks a clear reference to the compensation of european consumers treated in a discriminatory manner compared to us consumers. as the five star movement we are calling for adequate compensation to be introduced also by means of class action, an instrument which unfortunately has not yet been introduced at european level in a uniform and harmonised way. we also believe that to prevent such scandals from happening again in the future, we need to set up an independent european agency, which is the only way to avoid conflicts of interest, where the controller is the controlled and where each member state represents the interests of the flag car industry. yet the 2007 regulation was supposed to improve air quality, and instead the european commission and the member states have granted decades of impunity and a profusion of funds to an automobile industry that has sold lies and disease to european consumers. the final report acknowledges many of the mistakes made and identifies clear responsibilities. firstly, the timing: it has been ten years since the nedc test was known to be outdated and unrepresentative, more than ten years since the environment agency reports warning of discrepancies between laboratory and real emissions, four years since the joint research centre report mentioning the possible use of illegal software, and seven years since the design of pems, which, among other things, give the car industry a further gift thanks to very generous compliance factors, namely the famous nox limit multipliers - again a number that has all the flavour of a political choice, without any technical or scientific basis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the volkswagen scandal clearly demonstrates that a market without clear rules and adequate controls leads to imbalances, unfair competition and serious damage to the environment. the lab tests were a sham, a fraud. then let 's get this straight: it is not by lowering environmental standards that we win international competition. we did a good job together in the committee: now we must move from words to deeds. we need an independent european agency for type approval. it 's for a very simple reason: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and then we need clear measures to protect consumers who are being cheated. it is essential because consumers have suffered serious damage. that is why i make a heartfelt appeal to my colleagues, to all my colleagues. we did a good job together. we're at the last mile now. let's not waste this opportunity to show that we are autonomous, independent and have the power to choose.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my first remark is to the rapporteurs, to the two co-rapporteurs who have done, as has been said many times, a tremendous job, as i have rarely seen in these three years of parliamentary activity, and to the entire secretariat, to all the officials who have collaborated. the first point i wish to make in relation to the specific content of this year's work - and i am doing so in the presence of the commissioner - is that we cannot, even though we have identified a number of shortcomings, deficiencies and corrections to be made, make the mistake of transferring to the directorate-general for the environment responsibilities which are specifically to be assigned to the directorate-general for industry. the fact that we have identified some criticisms of the environmental impact of certain industrial practices does not mean that industry has to take a step back from an institutional point of view. what is the responsibility of such an industry must remain. because here we can afford, as has always been the case in europe, to preside over the level of sustainable development in which europe is the world champion. we often hear strong criticism of industry in this house today, but those who criticize it, industry, often forget that the standard of living we can afford here is paid for by the capacity of industry. a child to be corrected is not to be driven from home, it is to be corrected. and that's how we have to treat our employers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee of inquiry set up by the european parliament in the wake of the 'dieselgate' scandal has revealed a far from reassuring picture, pointing to responsibility at all levels. the commission should have acted to mitigate the central role played by industry representatives, who are overrepresented in the meetings of the working party on real-life emissions from light vehicles. and the commission has not done so. the member states themselves have circumvented their legal obligation to monitor and enforce the prohibition of handling equipment. they should have ensured that their type-approval authorities had adequate human and financial resources for carrying out in-house tests and not to rely on tests carried out in the certified laboratories of car manufacturers. the rigorous work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry has produced an uncompromising final report, which bears witness to the value of democratic control in the european institutions and to the gap between reality and the law which citizens are asking us to bridge.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in many european countries, such as italy, france and germany, the political link between car manufacturers and the governments which issue type-approvals is well known, and it is well known that 'dieselgate' has brought to light a dramatic fact, namely the conflict of interest between the controller (the state) and the controlled (the car manufacturers). today we have a great opportunity to change this system. we have an opportunity to offer citizens a framework that overcomes conflicts of national interest. i ask my colleagues to be ambitious in this. in the report we are voting on today on the supervision of motor vehicles, we have the opportunity to make improvements, to make this proposal more ambitious, first of all by asking that 20% of new models placed on the market in each member state be checked. in this way, for example, a car launched by fiat would be controlled throughout europe, and this would make the manipulations much less frequent, if not impossible. then, we all talked about an independent third body, which could control what the national authorities approve, and we focused on the agency, which is perceived on average as a cart. so we want to be proactive: we are proposing an authority, not an agency, an authority which is in charge of the commission and which can use existing structures. we have identified in particular the laboratory of the joint research centre in ispra, which is already equipped with many instruments. and to those who say that there is no funding to support this kind of approach, we point out that, without asking anything from the citizens, but simply with a small charge to the manufacturers, we would have these resources. we're talking about ten euros a vehicle, and that's what we're talking about. finally, we ask that road tests, which is a very good thing, not be carried out on prototypes but on vehicles which are already ready for the market. so i reiterate that today we have this opportunity to be ambitious and i ask my colleagues to be ambitious, and i hope you will accept this invitation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that we are giving the european union a more certain and effective regulatory framework today, one which is better able to avoid new scandals. i therefore think it is important to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs, in particular our shadow rapporteur, mrs schaldemose, for the important work they have done and which we will be approving here today. this text contains some important points, and i should therefore like to emphasize them. the first: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. finally, there will be more power on the part of consumers. i think that this is a really strong deterrent against fraudulent actions. i said that these were very important results, but that we would have liked to have achieved even more ambitious results if we had been able to break once and for all the links between the car manufacturers, their technical services and the national type-approval authorities, which in many cases are even private. it would therefore be necessary to define a single and independent vehicle surveillance system at european level. ladies and gentlemen, we are still in time to respond to these needs and therefore to vote for the establishment of a european vehicle monitoring agency which delivers a more efficient and more transparent system, and which is finally able to restore the betrayed confidence of citizens and consumers and guarantee a high level of protection of health and the environment.
mr president, i would like to support the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which i consider to be reasonable and balanced. it is clear that we need new rules governing the typeapproval of motor vehicles, rules which, in the form of regulations, will apply to the whole market, to the whole european union. it is therefore good that we replace the directive, which each country transposes into its own legal order in different ways, with a single regulation. i think it will strengthen the market and it will be an advantage for the producers themselves. there is a very debated question of agency, and i'm glad that in the end this solution didn't win out. on the one hand, the supporters of the agency here talk about consumer rights, i want to say that in the czech republic, most consumer citizens look with suspicion at the establishment of more and more agencies. if we were to set up another agency, i am here to tell you that for most citizens in the czech republic it would be strengthening the brussels bureaucracy and most citizens in our country would not identify with such a solution. so i think it is much better not to create another body but to strengthen the commission's powers, even though i have doubts about some of the powers we are giving to the commission. i think that the supervisory and control activities should primarily be carried out by the individual member states and only when they do not do this should the role of the commission take over. i am also glad that the charging of such services has been dropped and that it is up to the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is clear that the report adopted by the imco committee contains important new elements. everything that introduces transparency in relations between producers and consumers is a step in the right direction. the intervention to limit conflicts of interest between producers and consumers is also a positive development. i would also add that it is important that there is a minimum quota, a defined threshold of cars to be checked. but the agency is missing. the agency is not an overlap, it's not the creation of a new layer of bureaucracy. we're talking about an independent, self-funded agency. what is the task, the function, of the agency? the aim is to break one of the negative phenomena that the surveys of recent years have shown us, which is the negative relationship between producers and those who should control them. an independent agency would be doing something quite different.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unlike in the united states, the european authorities have had little leeway to impose specific measures on car manufacturers. while it is true that the automobile industry must be protected by not imposing economic burdens or excessively burdensome procedures, it is equally necessary to ensure a high level of compliance between operating standards and community principles, starting with more effective controls, the use of independent authorities in the type approval process and respect for the principle of free competition. the shortcomings in national market surveillance systems, however, are not eliminated simply by delegating the control activity to other authorities, but by creating collaborative models that eliminate possible national conflicts of interest and above all protect consumers when they are exposed to irregular practices by industry. in this connection, it is also important to promote the opening up of the market by eliminating de facto monopolies held by manufacturers over certain components of the car, particularly electronic components.
it is with great pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, that i welcome the president of the federal republic of germany to this plenary session. mr president, i would like to thank you for your visit. we are honoured that you have chosen the european parliament for your second mission outside germany, after that in paris last week and less than three weeks after your inauguration on 19 march. your presence here today demonstrates your strong commitment to europe. you asked for more courage for a better europe, where freedom is guaranteed and where we all work for a future of peace, prosperity and justice. i am convinced that the courage you are asking for can be found among the members of this parliament. with your presence, mr president, you are also reminding us of your country's commitment to europe. this commitment is even more important today, given the decision of a major member country to leave the union. we are certainly living in difficult times, others have lived in difficult times in the past, and our union has always been able to find the right way and to give the appropriate answers. i do not want to ask you for the right answers today, mr president, but i do want to invite you to work with this parliament for our common future. i would like to thank you again for coming to strasbourg.
president of the federal republic of germany. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it is a real pleasure and honour to be here with you today in this place of free speech and open debate! but my joy, my friends, is not clouded. it is bitter to speak for the first time before this house, shortly after a member state has begun to withdraw from the european union. i know that you will be speaking to this house tomorrow. i find this bitter not only as a politician but above all as a citizen of europe. you should know that i am about as old as the european union. when i was born in 1956, the wounds of the war unleashed by hitler's germany were still visible in our cities throughout europe. even greater were the wounds in the hearts of our neighbors. and yet, at that very moment, they reached out to my country for peace and together, in rome 60 years ago, they laid the foundations for a new europe. when i went to school, young people were already symbolically sawing at the battlements of europe's borders to show that we wanted more europe. what we have achieved is not enough! in 1968 the customs barriers within europe were removed, the long lines for lorries at the toll booths were history and the queues for cars were at least shorter. when i came to university, the pull of europe was already so great that the people of southern europe - in greece, in spain, in portugal - were not only sweeping away dictatorships, but were paving the way for freedom and democracy in the common europe. in 1989, i was in the final stages of my doctoral thesis, the berlin wall fell, brought down by the brave men and women of eastern europe who had peacefully won freedom and democracy. it was they who made possible not only the unity of my country but the reunification of europe. all of this and much more is meant when the rome declaration says: 'we are united in our happiness!' all this is the great legacy that the mothers and fathers of europe have entrusted to us and on which our children are building. we must not give up this precious heritage and leave it to the enemies of europe. we must preserve, maintain and improve it - this is our common historical mission! (applause from the centre) when i look back on the 60 or so years of my life and the same period of time as the european union, i see the growth, the development and the success of the new europe - the path from the organisation of the deficit economy in post-war europe to a beacon of hope for a more just and peaceful world. it seemed to some - and i'm not excluding myself - that this was guaranteed forever. but in my biography i have also experienced the struggles of europe: the crises, the contradictions, the setbacks. i had to learn: my belief, and the belief of many in my generation, that the path of europe, the path of european unity, was irreversible, was wrong. no, europe's future is not a certainty - it never was, and we haven't known that since brexit. i remember 2005. i had just become foreign minister of my country, and the dream of the european constitution had just been shattered. i remember how disappointed many of us were back then. but i know just as well as we do that - and i suspect many of you in the chamber have done that - that we have come together again and done what europe does best: get back on our feet and get on with it. we picked up the phone, listened to each other, spent nights at the negotiating table and forged, piece by piece, the treaty of lisbon. what i'm saying is that europe has never been a walk in the park. europe is a complicated, indeed, a strenuous project. but it's worth it! we can and must counter europe's bad guys: cooperation, growing prosperity and, above all, 70 years of peace - that is europe's promise to its citizens. but never in its history has that promise been fulfilled on its own. it has only been fulfilled when the actions of the actors have been guided not by national narrow-mindedness but by european reason. that is the standard we must meet! (applause from the centre) that's why i came to you today. i would like to make my first speech as president of the federal republic of germany outside germany nowhere else than here in this parliament. (applause from the centre) i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. as a citizen, i say, as many citizens have said in recent weeks: yes, i want europe! and as president of the federal republic of germany, i can say that the overwhelming majority of germans want europe! we do not want a return to an unpleasant past, but a common path towards a better european future! that's the perspective! (applause from the centre) if we say yes to europe, we do not have to flatter ourselves and we do not have to be afraid of contradiction. if we say yes to europe, we also say yes to the complicated, the strenuous and also the unfinished aspects of europe! how complicated political solutions are, how tedious the process - who knows this better than you here in the european parliament? it is not only a meeting of conflicting interests, but also of different cultures, languages and traditions. europe's diversity is an adventure, but it is also exhausting. i think i just heard antonio and the leaders of the factions sighing about it. but that is precisely what europe needs today: that we do not entrench ourselves in a circle of opinion, that we do not simply complain about the divisions that have opened up in europe or withdraw into national recesses, but that we seriously look for ways on all sides to build bridges across these divisions. this includes - and in europe has always included - the assumption that the other party may also be right. europe was founded on the assumption that others might be right. europe's successes have always been compromises. europe's successes have been the arduous but peaceful balancing of interests. that is what this parliament stands for, that is what you stand for in 28 nations. who would ever become a member of parliament without the will to convince and at the same time the willingness to be convinced, without the passion for the complicated, for the efforts of democracy! everyone in this room who is showing this passion right now, in these difficult times, has my deepest respect and certainly my support. (applause from the centre) support because i know there are others. there are plenty of other forces that are always there with the very simple answers - answers of the strong hand, answers with clear enemy images. a new fascination with authoritarianism is spreading not only far beyond the borders of europe, to the west and east, but also, unfortunately, here in the heart of europe. populists paint the world in black and white and capitalize on fear. anyone who knows me knows i'm not one for alarmism. this parliament can tolerate dispute, and it needs it. but i also say: those who dismiss democratic institutions and parliaments as a waste of time, those who declare willingness to compromise as weakness and, above all, those who no longer insist on the distinction between fact and falsehood, are touching the very foundation of democracy and will, must, hear our resolute, our common opposition as democrats! (applause from the centre) the world we live in has become more uncertain and confusing. many people worry about the future; fear of losing control. they are becoming susceptible to the enticements of those who say: 'come back behind the familiar butts of the nation! border close, scots close! it's the only way we can regain our sovereignty! but it's not only naive, it's irresponsible to trick people into thinking that you can put walls and fences around dangers like terrorism or climate change that know no borders. it's irresponsible to tell people that in a world that's getting more complicated, the answers are getting simpler. and i believe it is wrong to say that in this world a european country can make its voice more heard or its economic interests more effective by itself and without the eu. (applause from the centre) on the contrary, if we do not make europe a full-fledged player on the world stage, then we will all become the plaything of other powers. this is probably what michael heseltine, a briton himself, had in mind when he said in a recent interview that brexit was "perhaps the greatest loss of british sovereignty". and he may be right about that prediction. (applause from the centre) take back control that's what we hear everywhere that's a strong slogan, yes. but i predict that the nationalists will not be able to cash it! if anything, we can make the phrase come true together: if we do not make things too easy for ourselves; if we do not shift responsibility to brussels, but exercise it together; if we do not make things too easy for ourselves; if we do not shift responsibility to brussels, but exercise it together; if we do not make things too easy for ourselves; if we do not shift responsibility to brussels, but exercise it together; if we do not shift responsibility to brussels, but exercise it together; if we do not shift responsibility to brussels, then we cannot change the world. by strengthening the single market while protecting and supporting those who have been particularly hard hit by globalisation in recent years; by strengthening our capacity for innovation and creativity so that europe itself is a creator of change, rather than a passive recipient. only then can we strip the populists of their fertile ground and say: we are not losing our sovereignty to europe, but the opposite. only together can we gain strength and weight in this changing world! (applause from the centre) the crisis gives us the opportunity to see europe as it really is - without illusions, without false optimism, with all its strengths and also its weaknesses. and the crisis forces us to answer the question: what kind of european unity do we want and how much do we want it? the commission's white paper has identified options for this. this is not the solution, but one thing seems clear to me: a permanent self-blockade in the european union is the worst possible option, it is not! if we want to move forward together, we cannot all achieve 100 per cent in the end. the problems are too complex and the expectations too different: yes, we want a stronger europe and more european solutions, but we must also make room for those members who cannot or do not want to take further steps towards integration. yes, we want to show solidarity with countries suffering from the consequences of the financial and economic crisis and having to embark on or have had to embark on tough reforms. but european solidarity can only support national efforts, not replace them. yes, we want to help people who are fleeing war and persecution. but because our collective possibilities are also finite, we must decide how and how much responsibility each of us must bear. yes, we want to keep the european union together. but we also know that europe is bigger than the european union and that without the integration of our neighbours to the east and south there will be no lasting peace on this continent. (applause from the centre) i know that, ladies and gentlemen. none of these problems is easy, and we must not ignore the concerns of the people in all of this. but those who built europe certainly had to contend with more difficult problems. you have replaced the battlefield with the negotiating table, the confrontation with a peaceful balancing of interests. they have been wise; they have shown soundness of mind. the world of today - a world full of new uncertainties - does not allow us to be less clever than our predecessors. there is no lack of clarity on the issues to be solved - they are on the table. what is lacking is the courage - and sometimes the willingness - to solve them in a european way. and we have to change that! (applause from the centre) the balance of interests is the dispute. we are fighting in europe, and in my view this is not a sign of decline. i too have been involved in political disputes in europe for the last 25 years, not just occasionally but more often, and i have met some of you in this room in the course of your disputes. but when we argue in europe, we do so on a firm normative foundation. many questions are complicated, but this must not cloud our view of the most basic and important things: freedom and democracy, the rule of law and human rights are not at our disposal. it is thus enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union and is binding on all member states. this is the essence of europe, so to speak, this is what europe is in the eyes of the world and what many of us may even envy. if we are to be a beacon for the rule of law and human rights in the world, then we must not be indifferent to the fact that this foundation is being shaken within europe. and then europe must not remain silent when civil society, even science - as is happening now at the central european university in budapest - is deprived of its breathing space. then europe must not remain silent! (applause from the centre) but the role of my country is also a subject of controversy. some are calling for germany to take a more leading role in europe. others warn of german dominance. and the newly elected president of our most important ally recently said that the european union is nothing more than "a means to an end for germany". i'll tell you what, that's a misunderstanding. europe's strength cannot be based on the leadership of individuals, but always on the responsibility of all. of course, germany, as the largest and most populous country, has a special responsibility. but we know our options, and we know our limitations. and we too will not forget that others in europe may be right when we argue about solutions. we know what we owe to this europe. i say that a united europe is the right answer to our history and our geography - for ourselves and for our neighbours. and we feel that a strong europe is not only in our own interest, but that it has become part of our identity. so you should know that we germans want to keep the european union together. we want to build a common future in europe, together with our partners, large and small, on equal terms and with equal responsibilities. but in the end, beyond all the state's reason, there is something quite different and perhaps something much more important: europe is a matter of the heart for the vast majority of people in germany, not for all of them. that is why i have told you my own story of europe. and that is why in the past few weeks many people, especially many young people in germany, have told me their stories about europe. the young people - i've learned this - are tired of the fact that only those who are bad at europe are talking about it. they don't want their hope, their future, to be stolen by populists or to be lost to lethargy. that is why they have gone out and are now demonstrating in the streets that the pulse of europe is still beating in the streets and squares of almost all european capitals and major cities! (applause from the centre) even if we in my generation do not call it that, for many of our children and grandchildren europe has long since become a second homeland! these young people have long known that there is no contradiction between loving one's country and being a good european. and i think the boys are right about that! (applause from the centre) last year, i took my family on a private trip to wroclaw. i wanted to explore my mother's hometown, which i knew mainly from her dark memories. she told me about her experiences of war and devastation, of fleeing to the west with her mother, aunt, sisters, their children - seven women in all. unbridled nationalism and its consequences had overshadowed her young life and thus shaped my image of this city, wroclaw. but last year, 2016, i came to a very different city: a city that shone as the european capital of culture, with lively and intelligent debates everywhere, with music in the streets and squares, where young people from vilnius, wuppertal and verona celebrated their common europe. there was no petty! he was still living the dream of the european future! it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that the european dream is not lost on the next generation. that is the message that i bring from my country. yes, we want europe, we want to build a better europe, and we want to be a european germany. (the house agreed to the speaker's request)
i would like to thank the president of the federal republic of germany once again for accepting the invitation of parliament to speak, which will certainly stimulate the debate in this house in the coming weeks. this europe certainly needs to be corrected, it needs to be changed, but i think that the positive message of confidence which president steinmeier has sent us must be taken very seriously. thank you again for accepting our invitation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report today because it is necessary, for reasons of clarity, to revise the regulation defining the characteristics of fishing vessels. it is essential to codify all the regulations from 1986 to the present day, with the aim of simplifying this rule and making it more understandable and accessible to fishermen and citizens of the european union. i regret that the council did not consider it appropriate to protect small-scale artisanal fishing by keeping it separate from industrial fishing. in fact, a legal definition is needed as regards the characteristics of large-scale fishing and small-scale fishing in order to distinguish them from a legal point of view. this definition, which unfortunately does not appear in the regulation in question, should include, in addition to the size of the vessel, attributes such as the length of the vessels, variables relating to their range, their social role in coastal communities, the ecological impact, the fishing capacity and the economic data relating to the undertaking.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, amnesty international has denounced the fact that the world's leading brands of food and household products containing palm oil are responsible for serious human rights violations in a sector where children as young as eight are working in dangerous conditions and where discrimination against women is being committed on a day-to-day basis without guarantees of permanent employment and social benefits such as health and personal insurance. this is particularly serious when you consider that much of this product is produced on indonesian plantations owned by the world's largest oil palm grower, the agribusiness giant wilmar, which supplies 8 of the largest multinational palm oil users, which are themselves part of the rspo certification circuit. that 's right . while the world's largest companies reassure consumers to make ethical choices by buying products that claim to use sustainable palm oil, they continue to turn a blind eye to the exploitation of millions of workers in their own supply chains. that is why the report, which i voted for, finally calls for multinationals to be more transparent about what is in their products, by declaring where the raw materials in the products on the shelves of supermarkets come from.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the precious tropical ecosystems, which cover about 7% of the earth's surface, are increasingly under pressure from deforestation. about half of the area of illegally logged forests is used for the production of palm oil for the european market, which is the third largest in the world. in the report we have approved today, the european parliament calls for the introduction of minimum sustainability criteria for palm oil and the adoption of a binding regulatory framework to ensure that all the supply chains of importers of agricultural commodities are traceable back to the origin of the raw material. the report stresses the need to replace the current voluntary certification schemes, some of which have revealed limitations, with a single certification system to ensure that only sustainably produced palm oil can access the eu market. for these reasons i thought i should vote in favour.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the state of play of the second review of the economic adjustment programme for greece.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, as you have already highlighted, you have added the topic ‘state of play of the second review of the economic adjustment programme for greece’ to today’s agenda and you will appreciate that i will limit my intervention on this process. in line with the european legal framework, the institutions, that is the commission, the ecb, the esm and imf, are entrusted with the design and monitoring of adjustment programmes. this also includes negotiations of updated policy conditionality with the national authorities. the eurogroup is regularly informed of the state of play of the adjustment programme by the institutions and also the authorities, and on occasion the eurogroup provides political guidance on open issues. the second review of the greece programme is on the agenda of the next eurogroup meeting later this week on 7 april. the council is not intervening in ongoing programme reviews and i can confirm that it has not discussed the issue at hand either in march or at earlier meetings. the commission is also, i think, much better placed to provide you with the information on the subject than i am, and i see that commissioner moscovici is here and he will address you just after me. the commission informing the european parliament is also in line with the eu provisions, the two-pack provisions, on adjustment programmes. so for now i thank you very much and i will listen with great attention to the interventions by the honourable members and by commissioner moscovici.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be with you today to discuss the second review of the greek programme. let us start with the situation of the greek economy, which has shown resilience in the face of the turbulence of 2015 and 2016 and the effects of capital controls. as early as 2016, positive trends emerged, including the return, which surprised us, of positive growth faster than expected for some quarters and the decline in unemployment, which was at an absolutely unacceptable level and remains far too high. today, however, this positive trend - it must be admitted - is beginning to slip. why is there such hesitation? because we're closing the review late. what i have observed from my own responsibility is that there is a very close link between the return of growth in greece and success in negotiations. when the negotiation moves forward, growth and confidence restart. when negotiation is delayed, then growth is delayed, as are investors. all greece's partners must now come together to put an end to this damaging uncertainty and finally create a sustainable cycle of virtuous recovery. greece deserves it. its authorities, government and parliament have made considerable progress since the launch of the current programme. the progress made over the past 18 months must be sustained and strengthened to ensure what the country and the euro area need, namely a sustainable recovery. we remain convinced that, following substantial reforms and further implementation efforts, the greek economy, which is very flexible, very creative and very responsive, is capable of turning the page. but it must be helped and not hindered further by uncertainty. for its part, as the minister has said, the commission is doing everything in its power and is playing its part, in a way, as an honest broker to achieve a fair and balanced agreement, which we want quickly. why is this agreement possible? firstly, because the budgetary objectives have been largely achieved. i would like to reiterate that the 2016 primary surplus target of 0.5% under the programme has been very much exceeded. eurostat will publish the result at the end of april, but we expect the primary surplus to be simply above 3%. greece is also on track to meet its target of 1.75% of gdp in 2017 and 3.5% in 2018. these results don't just fall from the sky. they are the result of a series of extremely tough fiscal consolidations that include high-quality parametric measures adopted in 2015 and 2016, with a cumulative fiscal return of 4,5% of gdp, a considerable figure. what european country has experienced such an adjustment? whatever the political preferences - and the commission has no political preference - such efforts must not be forgotten or ignored, but they must be anchored, deepened and pursued. as regards the reform programme, the authorities have already implemented much of what was required. to cite a few examples that do not always get the attention they deserve: greece has for the first time a national social security net which will guarantee a subsistence or basic income and thus strengthen education and vocational training in times of high unemployment. an independent authority for public revenue has finally been established. greece needed it, among other things, to improve the collection of revenue. the legislation to reduce non-performing loans has been passed and we are now moving to implementation. a new privatisation and investment fund, hcap, is now operational and its supervisory and management boards have already started to fulfil their responsibilities. it follows naturally that important progress has already been made in major privatisation projects. i encourage the greek authorities to maintain this momentum which is essential to attract the investment and private investors that greece needs. finally, i will mention the various measures adopted in the fields of product markets, the business environment and the legal system. all these examples are in fact only a small part of the approximately 200 measures that have been taken since the programme started in summer 2015. the first months of this year were spent negotiating two critical elements. first, the measures necessary to complete the second review. the main outstanding issues are well known. first of all, it is a question of labour market reform, which is of great importance to many of you and also to the commission. it is essential that the greek labour market takes into account the difficulties on the employment front, but also the current economic challenges specific to the country, in order for reforms to support the recovery and job creation. i would like to say that the commission, committed to the european social model, continues to support fair and effective collective bargaining systems. greece should follow european best practice in areas such as collective redundancies and trade union action. in this respect, we take into account the work of the group of independent experts responsible for formulating recommendations in the light of european and international best practice. we also know that not all of them have had unanimous support. in my experience, what matters most is not necessarily how the system works on paper, but how it works in practice, i.e. how the social partners take ownership of it and commit themselves jointly, autonomously and in collaboration with the public authorities. the second major subject of negotiation is the energy market. in this sector, it is important to increase competition, taking into account european rules and, of course, recent court decisions. a more competitive and efficient market is in the interest of all consumers. i think that with some technical adjustments we should be able to agree quickly on the necessary elements of reform that are good for everyone and, first and foremost, for the greek economy. in recent weeks another item of discussion has been a budgetary arrangement which would allow the international monetary fund to participate with its own programme. i know that for many of you, for the commission and for the member states, the involvement of the international monetary fund is a major security guarantee. this is a basic condition. what is new is that this scheme would take effect in the years immediately following the end of the programme. so we are thinking not about what happens by the end of 2018, but in the years immediately after 2018, without asking for a primary effort for too long, because it is neither viable nor democratic. the objective should be to achieve a balanced package, which will ensure that greece achieves this primary surplus target in the medium term. this concept was reiterated at the february and march eurogroup meetings. it has been and is still the basis for the discussions of the last few weeks, which must be concluded very quickly because we have another eurogroup meeting in valletta in three days' time. the discussions are continuing. i would also like to apologize for leaving this house before the end of our debate and going to brussels, where important meetings with the greek authorities and the european institutions are taking place this evening. i wanted to be in strasbourg for your debate and then go back to brussels, which is never easy. i would like to emphasize that this system includes measures to further rationalize expenditure. the commission and i welcome the progress made so far, including on the issues which are necessary prerequisites for imf participation. we have already come a long way since the mandate given to the eurogroup at the end of february. we shall have the opportunity to measure it this week with the ministers in valletta. i hope that the meeting there will be a good meeting, which will show that we are really moving towards a satisfactory conclusion. i continue to believe that technical agreement at institutional level before and after a political agreement is not only possible but also imperative to limit the risks of delay and to avoid jeopardising the positive budgetary performance of last year. but this requires a genuine commitment and a willingness to conclude on the part of all, and i emphasize the word 'all'. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process. we are aware of that. this is particularly true for greece. we therefore count on the constructive attitude of the other institutions concerned and i want to say in this forum, without any reservations, that this also includes the international monetary fund, which has been actively involved in all aspects of the negotiations since the creation of the esm programme in 2015 and which must also do its part to understand the specific difficulties of greece. the commission will therefore continue to support constructive discussions between all partners and to promote a swift conclusion of the review. finally, the commission will also continue to encourage all efforts towards a more sustainable greek debt. we have been pointing out for some time that a more realistic primary surplus pathway is needed after the end of the programme. it is not possible to demand for years and years that primary surplus levels be too high if growth is to be restarted in the country and employment is to return. without this, markets will not be willing to lend at reasonable rates and greece will continue to depend on the support of its european partners. in the end, i think it is a matter of burden-sharing between greece and the eurogroup. in short, the commission would like to highlight the progress already made. she knows that there is still some work to be done before the discussion can be successful. i repeat how much this is for us, and for me personally, something that is not only desirable but possible and necessary for our economic and monetary union, for the euro area, for greece and for the greek people, who have suffered a lot from the crisis, who must see the light at the end of this long tunnel of austerity and return to the path of growth and employment.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, time is running out and the greek people can no longer wait. they deserve a swift and positive conclusion to the second review. we think that a positive conclusion is at hand. the implementation of structural reform, a balanced solution for the labour market which would safeguard the right of collective bargaining, and additional fiscal safeguards – and also the possibility of expansionary measures if greece outperforms its targets, as it is currently doing – could be the basis for an agreement to put greece on the path towards sustainable growth. this is why the greek government is right to negotiate constructively in order to get an agreement: prolonging the uncertainty would have negative consequences for the economy, and it would be a terrible mistake to throw away the positive results that have been achieved so far. but the imf and some member states should not abuse this situation and should also do their part in order to achieve a positive result. in particular they should not play with fire. i want to be very clear: given the sense of responsibility shown by the greek government and given the significant concessions agreed in order to have the imf on board, to insist on asking for an unsustainable additional fiscal effort to be concentrated in a single year after the end of the programme would be irresponsible and unacceptable. i would even say that it would be shameful. finally, creditors should recognise that the primary surplus of 3.5% is achievable, but it is sustainable only for a very short time. this clear recognition is necessary in order to give credibility to the commitment made by the eurogroup in may 2016 to implementing medium—term debt relief measures. those measures are necessary in order to meet the agreed benchmarks for growth financing needs in a context of social cohesion, as well as financial, economic and political stability, and should be further specified. a positive solution to the greek crisis would be a major success for the greek people and for the entire european union in these difficult times. parliament calls on all the relevant actors to take a responsible attitude in order to achieve this historic result.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to say that i would like to discuss this programme for greece with the president of the eurogroup, mr dijsselbloem, who seems to have taken the legacy of his predecessor, mr juncker, very well: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. we are talking about cutting pensions and we are at the 13th cut in five years, tell me if this is sustainable. we are talking about lowering the tax-exempt threshold for minimum incomes: we'd have to torture the poor even more! and now the privatization of the energy company, after the ports and airports. this is the usual recipe for failure of the troika, it is a set-up that does not work. as long as it is not seriously questioned, as long as people like dijsselbloem and juncker govern the european institutions, we will never get out of this crisis, the eurozone will never get out of this crisis. so we strongly call for the resignation of this character who has insulted the countries of the south and women, and we want these things to be discussed more intensely, because it is impossible not to talk about the problems of the eurozone, the euro and economic governance.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after so many lies about greece, not only today but over the years, it is necessary to restore some truth to this disastrous approach orchestrated by the european union institutions, which in the name of the euro have knowingly destroyed a country. we are here to take stock of the results of these memoranda and let's take stock. greek industrial production in the period has fallen by 30%, real gdp has fallen by 25%, a quarter of the greek population lives below the poverty line and the greek population is facing one of the biggest crises ever experienced almost never experienced in its history. in 2013, the international monetary fund itself declared the failure of austerity policies, it said it had underestimated the destructive effects of austerity. but not only did none of the people in charge at the time pay, not only did dijsselbloem and juncker resign - indeed, some were promoted - but the approach of the third programme is even more austerity. you have led us to believe that the problem of greece was the high level of public debt relative to gdp, and therefore that austerity was necessary. it's not. from 1993 to 2007, greece's public debt-to-gdp ratio was around 100%, completely constant and lower than that of countries such as belgium and italy, which are considered more virtuous. what was the problem? vítor constâncio tells us this in a speech on may 23, 2013, in which he says that the problem was not the public debt but the private foreign debt. because what happened to the greek people with the euro? with the exchange rate risk eliminated, the northern banks poured credit into these countries, speculating on the higher interest rates. your objective was clear from the beginning: the commission's intention was not to save the greek people with these programmes, but to allow these banks that had speculated to recover their loans and to transfer the debts from the private banks' balance sheets to the public budgets. that's what the bailout funds were for. italy, through bilateral contributions and contributions to the two state rescue funds, has contributed more than eur 60 billion of public money to rescue the northern banks. you have forced the italian people to do this. the euro will collapse under its lies and you will be called to account for this disaster that you have caused.
mr. ferber, i have a question for you. mr. kłosowski, please, your question.
mr rübig has referred to the rules of procedure. your honor, what is this?
mr rübig, this is not a point of order, it is a question to the speaker, it is a question of the blue card.
commissioner moscovici said in the opening that he had to leave us to go to a very important meeting, and in his place the commission is well represented by commissioner andriukaitis.
i would remind you, mrs matias, that the commission and the council are not here to replace anyone. we have organised a different debate from the one that was planned because president dijsselbloem did not want to speak in the chamber, and of course everyone knows the criticism that this has brought.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the eurogroup is an informal body, as it is in the treaty of lisbon, and it should discuss responsibility. think about it . the euro area is a key pillar of the european union's economic and social cohesion. it has no formal obligations to the only elected body, the european parliament, but takes decisions which have an impact on the fiscal, monetary and structural policies of the member states. its president, let us remember, is the finance minister of the netherlands - a country which encourages international tax evasion - guilty of unacceptable offenses against the peoples of southern europe, and today he refuses the invitation to speak before us, the defenders of all those who shed tears and blood to uphold unsustainable rules of economic governance. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do you still believe in the goodness of the troika and the esm, which have provided well over two thirds of the aid to greece since the beginning of the crisis to pay off the same debt contracted with the international banking system and the european financial institutions? this is not the way to build a europe of citizens in solidarity. we are not accused of being populists when we point out these anomalies. fighting for transparency, for democracy, fighting for a parliament that is more central in the decisions that affect the lives of 500 million european citizens is not populism, ladies and gentlemen. this is called responsibility. this is called willpower.
we note your statement. ms. fernandes, there's a question for you. will you accept it?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has helped to bring greece out of the dark days of the crisis, and it is right that this house should give an account of this to the people. that is democracy, and that is the path parliament wants to take, with good peace for dijsselbloem. what is not democratic, what distances the citizens and complicates the work of the institutions, is the insistence that only austerity can offer solutions to the crisis in the member states, and that there is an almost endemic or cultural imbalance in the management of public affairs in the mediterranean regions. greece has shown that it can follow the commission's reform path, albeit with predictable setbacks. the first priority is the needs of the greek people, such as the immediate solution of the worrisome situation in the health, judicial and educational systems. it is in the interest of the european citizens that greece should once again be able to plan its future together with the community institutions. this is no time for divisive words, no time for pointless accusations. it is time to think beyond the emergency and reconcile the needs of the creditors with those of the greek people, without impositions and without threats.
in writing. this debate should have been held in the presence of eurogroup president jeroen dijsselbloem, who is still the 'key guest' of this debate. i hope that the presidency will convey to minister dijsselbloem our disappointment at his having once again deserted parliament on an occasion such as this, which would have allowed him to explain his latest statements to the greek people and to the whole of europe, and to make clear once and for all his concept of solidarity!
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation from the five star movement will vote in favour of these proposals on medical devices and medical diagnostic devices because they go in the direction we want, namely that no low-quality medical devices should ever again be marketed within the european union. in europe we can no longer afford scandals such as those of silicone prostheses or low-quality hiv tests which have produced false negatives - as my colleague mr liese said earlier - thereby increasing the risk of contracting a disease such as aids. we must say no more to the formal and facade checks, and we must give priority to the direct and substantive checks which protect patients in a preventive way. we are in favour of a network of european reference laboratories for the testing of high-risk devices, especially innovative ones. finally, we believe that it was a success to make it compulsory to have a surveillance plan to monitor the safety of devices throughout their life cycle and to enable patients and their doctors to have timely information to detect any malfunctions. we are now anxiously awaiting the adoption of criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors, without which it will not be possible to select dangerous substances, which may also be present in surgical and medical establishments, and consequently not to apply the legislation we are about to vote on, with very serious damage to the health of our patients.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner andriukaitis, i believe that we have come a long way and travelled a long way together, from the proposal five years ago to the agreement concluded under the dutch presidency. i therefore think that mr willmott and mr liese should be thanked for their role as rapporteurs and i would also like to thank them personally for their cooperation in the final phase of the negotiations during the trilogues to reach an agreement, a fruitful agreement with the council and with the help of the commission. the negotiations were complex and long, not only because of the length of the negotiations but also because of the complexity of the dossier, which was very technical and had to be defined in the course of the negotiations. but the end result is certainly an important result: we're providing the industry with a clear framework that will allow them to make investments and contribute to that goal that we set for ourselves from the beginning, which was to have greater patient safety, but also to spur innovation in medicine. we have worked to raise the standards of quality and safety of products considerably, to protect the health of european citizens, and we have embarked on a process which will force a major change in mindset in the industry. i am sure that these new rules will be an opportunity for the european health and industrial system. there are many important measures, especially on the transparency side, such as the establishment of the central database to create a system of collecting all the information. or i think of patients with implanted devices, for whom it is intended that key product information is made available, including any precautions they may need. in the end, we have reached a compromise which took many hours of negotiation, but one of which we as members of the european parliament must certainly be proud. i hope that we will all support him in this house tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the scandals of recent years in the field of medical devices have highlighted the urgent need to remedy the obvious lack of regulation. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. finally, the union has a strong and transparent regulatory framework to increase the level of protection of the health of european citizens without hampering innovation. the most significant new developments include a special procedure for certain high-risk devices with an independent assessment by a group of experts, clarification of the roles and obligations of all market players, a total ban for certain carcinogens, mutagens and toxic substances in certain devices subject to a number of derogations and a comprehensive system of device traceability, post-market surveillance and surveillance to ensure constant monitoring and rapid response in the event of problems. we have reached a good compromise. the new regulatory framework will overcome implementation differences and ensure the safety of medical devices and their free movement in the internal market.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if the length of a report is an indication of the importance of the subject, we must say that, of course, the problem of the migration crisis we are facing is certainly at the heart of the european debate. we appreciate the attention in this report to the root causes of migration, which are what we believe the eu should focus on: the call for european solidarity, the call for the strengthening of legal pathways of access, as well as criticism of the migration compact, criticism of the so-called eu-turkey agreement and the joint eu-afghanistan action. as underlined in paragraph 59, eu assistance and cooperation should be unconditional and targeted to achieve the development and growth of third countries. in fact, we often see that these agreements, which are often not even subject to parliamentary scrutiny, are far from providing unconditional support, but are very conditional, and these conditions have a lot to do with the ability of third countries to stop migration flows, with greater control of the borders. in this way, while the trade-off seems to be advantageous, the individual is the vessel of the problem, reduced to a mere statistic and a benchmark for the administration of aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just days after the 27 decided to put immigration and security at the top of the agenda, austria has already announced that it will withdraw from relocation, and budapest has just made it clear that if the commitment with turkey is broken, hungary will stop the migrants with the wall and the new laws it has passed. at the same time, the visegrád quartet denounces the blackmail of the european union, what it calls the blackmail of the european union on migrants, and it is not mentioned here. as if everyone agrees with your immigration policy. meanwhile frontex source what is the situation with trafficking from libya? the high commissioner or his replacement won't tell us anything. it emerges frontex source that ngo ship activity has increased from 5 to 40%, and by the end of 2016, direct ngo interventions exceeded calls to the military naval forces' operations room. and the report suggests that there is - i repeat, frontex report - collusion with the criminal ferry operators. this is being investigated by the judiciary and the police, the italian sco. and you don't tell us, you don't talk about it, as if it didn't exist. this is a very serious matter. so i ask for less hypocrisy and more truth about these deals. enough with the trafficking of immigrants, enough with those who speculate on the drama of immigrants! you should tell us about this, and be ashamed of your guilty silence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting from a principle which should be fundamental: if someone says they're a refugee, they should be heard. but there are countries, on the contrary, from the united states to australia, that are sending potentially devastating messages. europe is not immune to these messages either. there are 65 million refugees in the world, very few of them in europe, most of them in third countries or in neighbouring countries. yet on this continent of ours, which should be the cradle of freedom and rights, there is an open conflict over migrants and refugees, a wrong and dangerous conflict, but for two fundamental reasons. the first: there are political forces that have exploited the different, and this political use of refugees has been lethal for the reception. we take family reunification, which is a fundamental ethical principle, and yet it is very difficult to have legislation on this in europe today. the second reason: it is precisely the disorganization, the lack of cooperation and solidarity between the different countries of the member states that have made migration an uncontrolled phenomenon and therefore prone to the spread of fears that permeate public opinion. there are serious political and moral responsibilities. hence the urgency of a change of approach. the motion for a resolution - and i thank elena valenciano and agustín díaz for what they have done - aims to turn a new page, to recognise the central role of human rights and the dignity of the person. it is the right direction, and i hope that the commission and the council will listen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work. 86% of the world's displaced people are hosted by developing countries. achieving a fair sharing of responsibility for reception is not just a european issue, but a global one. but how can the european union do its part if all the efforts of the council, and lately also of the commission, seem to be directed towards the externalization of our frontiers? we see this in the proposed reform of the common asylum system, with inadmissibility checks based on the discretionary concept of safe third countries; we see this in the agreements with turkey, whose success is measured by the inhumane conditions of 15 000 migrants stranded on greek islands, and now with libya, which has not even joined the geneva convention; we see this in the new partnership frameworks, which would like to make development cooperation conditional on the control of migration flows and returns. this not only violates the very essence of development cooperation, which is to eradicate poverty under article 208, but also risks directing aid only to countries on the migration routes, forgetting the less developed ones and putting at risk the union's relations with third countries. this goes against the long-term objectives of addressing the root causes of migration: it's a threat to peace, conflict, climate change, inequality, and it goes against the goals of sustainable development. many new financial instruments are being created, but never with new resources, always diverted from other funds and priorities, and without proper democratic scrutiny by this parliament. let us put solidarity and fundamental rights back at the centre.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, millions of men, women and children are emigrating to escape war, persecution and hunger. we are experiencing the worst migration crisis, with a very high cost in terms of lives lost. in this immense tragedy, once again, a very high tribute is being paid by minors, and on the tragedy of unaccompanied minors, italy has just launched a standard of civilization that equates the rights of these children with all others living in europe: a good example for the whole of europe. we have to disrupt the business model of the traffickers. the recent agreement on migrants reached in tripoli between the italian government and the new libyan government of national unity can also be a platform to work on. the real challenge facing europe is to build a strategy based on international cooperation. we need synergies, coordinated and concrete actions, which are not only reactive but capable of anticipating possible future crises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing immigration and possible solutions. we have done so many times, we have voted many times, we have decided, we have found solutions, but afterwards the commission, and above all the member states, have not followed up on them. so i ask myself, about this work done by colleagues, which is work that follows positions taken and which is work well done, what do we really think we are getting? this is an own-initiative report which was considered by the conference of presidents, and therefore by the conference of committee chairmen, as a non-strategic report on which, moreover, we cannot even table amendments unless we have the 76 signatures. so if a conference of committee chairmen, which is made up of people who do not even respect the d'hondt method - for example, we are not represented - decides what is strategic and what is not, who can amend and who cannot, what are we discussing, what do we think we will achieve?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr valenciano and mr díaz de mera for their commitment to a comprehensive and balanced own-initiative report which is moving in the right direction. today's debate has also shown that the european union and its member states have dealt with the problem of migration only in an emergency way, without a real long-term strategy, and that coordinated action is now needed to support the economic development of the countries of origin in order to guarantee the fundamental rights of the citizens of those countries and to ensure them decent living conditions, so as to reduce the flow of migration. as i have said many times in this house, ensuring that the most vulnerable people - and children in particular - are welcomed, cared for, supported and protected, both within and outside our borders, must be a priority for the european union's external action, including in the policies and actions of international bodies.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my full support for the thanks to the two rapporteurs, mrs thomas and mr olbrycht, and also for the thanks to my predecessor, mrs georgieva. we have listened to your speeches very carefully, and i note: a large majority of the speakers support the package. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can use this mid-term review - and i mention the omnibus in the supplement, in which i also ask for your constructive cooperation - to make better use of the budgetary framework, up to 100%. this has not been the case in the past. the main conclusions of the package to be discussed this evening are the exhaustion of the budgetary framework, efficiency and flexibility. it's a package. i want to remind you of that. the revision, the mid-term review, the amendment of the legislation on the one hand and the explanations on the other. i would ask you to take that into account when the vote is taken. thank you again to everyone involved.
president-in-office of the council. thank you, mr president. i would also like to thank each member who has contributed not only to today's sitting but to this process: the commission has also taken the view that the commission should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. there are those who would have liked more ambitious results, but i think the optimism of the members who spoke last night has prevailed and i think, as the commissioner said, that this should now encourage us to go forward and respond to the challenges ahead: the challenges of irregular immigration, the challenges to the security of our continent and citizens who are calling for a safer continent. but then we have other challenges; challenges such as economic growth and also young people who are experiencing a lack of employability and even opportunities, and that what if god wills tomorrow to be sealed by your vote will be signifying more than 4 billion who will contribute in these sectors we have referred to. i join you all and commissioner oettinger in thanking all those who have contributed: i hope that the commission will be able to give its approval to this agreement tomorrow, not only to the members who, i repeat, i hope will give their green light to this agreement tomorrow, but also to the two co-rapporteurs mr olbrycht and ms thomas, as well as the chairman of the committee on budgets, the european commission, commissioner oettinger's predecessor, commissioner georgieva, as well as to you, commissioner, and the slovak presidency, as well as to the maltese officials who have continued to seal this agreement in recent months.
in writing. by approving the revision of the multiannual financial framework, we as parliament are sending a clear message about the importance of increased eu budgetary capacity, which translates into an additional €6 billion for the 2017-2020 period. while the crisis and emergencies that governments and citizens are asking the eu to address are adding up, too often we have not seen the openness of member states to consider the necessary appropriations or the appropriate flexibility to deal with the necessary action on issues such as employment, growth and migration management.
in writing. in its 2016 resolution anticipating the revision of the multiannual financial framework - updated to reflect the eu's changing political, economic and social priorities -, parliament highlighted horizontal criticisms (disconnection between the mandate of parliament and the commission and budget planning; rigidity of the mff in relation to contingencies; need for own resources for the european budget) and thematic priorities: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the compromise reached is a positive step: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. italy's 'suspended veto' has allowed for better funding of initiatives for refugees and migrants. however, there is a feeling that multiannual budget planning is inadequate and that some member states are more inclined to demand returns from the european budget than to give the eu the means to act in its areas of competence. i am, however, confident that this review is a first step towards sound, fair and sustainable budgetary planning and that parliament's concerns will be adequately taken into account in the new post-2020 financial framework.
before we start the debate on brexit, i would like to express on behalf of the european parliament our strong disapproval of the horrific massacre in syria using chemical weapons. we have all been struck by the horrific images of children suffocated to death by chemical weapons. this is unacceptable, it is contrary to the values of the european union, which we have a duty to defend within our borders but also outside our borders. we therefore express our solidarity with the whole syrian people, who have been tormented by years of war. the conference on syria, hosted by high representative federica mogherini, opens today in brussels. i am confident that a united europe can play an important role in a much-needed peace process.
the agenda includes the priority discussion on the negotiations with the united kingdom following the notification of its intention to withdraw from the european union (2017/2593(rsp)). the debate which is about to begin marks the beginning of one of the most complex political processes ever faced by the european parliament. it will be a delicate negotiation, in which we will be called upon to play a central role, first and foremost in protecting the interests of the european citizens. we will hear the views of all the political groups before we adopt a resolution which will set out the guidelines for the european parliament in the negotiations. your vote will be decisive for the final outcome of the uk's withdrawal terms and for future relations with this country. the recent serious terrorist incidents remind us that all european countries are called upon to work together. terrorism knows no borders and the security of our citizens must always take precedence over any particular interest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialists and democrats are also thinking of the victims of the chemical attacks in syria. pity for the victims. twenty children are dead. shame on you! shame on the senders, shame on the political leaders and also on those who, washing their hands of it, gave the impression of giving the syrian regime carte blanche. when you are faced with a real war, you realize the irresponsibility of certain politicians. you mustn't laugh! two days ago, as mr weber has reminded us, a former british conservative leader warned of the risk of war between the united kingdom and spain. that's just for amateurs to say. i hope the british people understand what hands they've fallen into. the tories wanted the referendum and the day after the vote they didn't even know the procedure for filing for divorce. the integrity of the united kingdom is at stake. you wanted to take back control, but of what? you promised a better future. your lies have only created chaos in the uk. we won't lie. (applause) i would like to thank this institution is the first to respond. i also thank mr verhofstadt and those who have worked most hard on this resolution. we are prepared to use our veto power if the conditions set out in the resolution are not respected. our priority is to protect the rights acquired by those european citizens who are now threatened by brexit. we want to tell some truths. first of all: a country outside the european union will never be able to enjoy the same conditions as when it was a member. we need to discuss the terms of the divorce. only when we have made substantial progress will we discuss future relations. we also send back any blackmail or blackmail. if anyone in the uk wants to use common security as a blackmail weapon, he is wrong! truth number two: any future agreement with the united kingdom will be conditional on compliance with the union's social, environmental and fiscal standards. we will never tolerate the creation of a maxi tax haven on the doorstep of the european union. there will be no special treatment for the city, and we will not accept any run-down on workers' rights. truth number three: the peace in northern ireland today - and that should worry you - is more fragile, and we must preserve it. and all the financial commitments that are made, as happens in all families, when you leave your house and move to another house, you have to pay for electricity, gas, energy. and this is for all of us, it's not a disfavored treatment of anyone. and finally, brexit has taught us that the european union cannot be just the sum of national interests united by a single market. we are first and foremost a community of values, first and foremost solidarity. may brexit be an opportunity to find ourselves even more united around our common destiny. (applause) i would like to thank
given the sensitivity of this discussion, i will not be granting any "blue card" questions this morning. there are a lot of people signed up for the talks. each group has the right to express its views on brexit, but this debate must not turn this house into a football stadium with fans on either side. as i have always been equanimous in presiding over this house, if i am flexible as regards the timing of the group chairmen, i will be flexible with all the group chairmen. i have always presided over this house with great balance, and i intend to do so again today. so i invite you to approach the debate seriously, by getting into the content - it doesn't change the political decisions whether someone raises their voice or not, what matters is the content. each political group will be entitled to make several statements on this matter. it is no accident that the conference of presidents decided to have the group chairmen speak at the end of the debate. so it will be a full discussion, and everyone will be able to express fully their ideas and positions.
mrs farage, i am giving you the opportunity to speak, to say whatever you want, but when you talk about the mafia, when you say that parliament is behaving like the mafia, that is unacceptable to me.
mr president, with this resolution, the european parliament takes a clear strong and balanced position on the negotiations with the united kingdom. we regret the decision to leave the eu, but we respect it. we also know, and will not forget, that a large number of uk citizens voted to remain because they understand that the european project is the only way to protect and to recover our sovereignty in a globalised world. our guiding principle in the whole process will be to protect the rights and interests of the citizens we directly represent. we want to ensure an orderly withdrawal of the uk from the eu, avoiding a no—deal scenario, which would have negative consequences for all, but in particular for the united kingdom. for this reason, we call on the uk government to agree as soon as possible on the principles of the withdrawal provisions in order to allow us to begin talks on the main features of the future relationships and on the necessary transitional arrangements. we fully support the sequencing set out by michel barnier. in this context, parliament will pay particular attention to the need to protect the rights of the eu 27 citizens living or having lived in the uk and vice versa, because people – as president juncker said – are not negotiating chips. we will also ensure that the financial settlement will cover all the commitments and liabilities, and we will insist on the absolute need to safeguard the northern ireland peace process and to avoid a hardening of the border in ireland. the future relationship between the eu and the uk should be a close partnership, based on balanced and comprehensive agreement, but it cannot provide similar benefits to those enjoyed by the union member states. the european parliament will not accept any trade—off between security and economy, nor any cherry—picking. we will want an agreement which is fully in line with our standards on the environment, the fight against tax evasion and the protection of social rights. i am confident that the vote will show that this parliament is united in line with this principle, that we back the eu negotiator and that we will honour our constitutional obligations, contributing to that unity of the eu, to a successful negotiation and to the defence of our common values and projects.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the text of the joint resolution, although it does not contain the self-criticism i would have liked, but in defending the rights of citizens it is more precise than the european council's line. our parliamentary battle begins today, and i hope we will all be vigilant on two crucial points: the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. there is a question of peace and war in ireland. the citizens are concerned with the union's legal basis. i prefer to speak of legal bases rather than values, which are too subjective and therefore open to criticism. brexit, from this point of view, worries me. millions of european citizens in the united kingdom and britons in the union are at risk of losing the fundamental social and civil rights currently guaranteed by european law. one of the purposes of brexit is the great repeal bill, which will do away with that right, create an even more deregulated economy and could lead to a departure from the human rights convention. here's a misunderstanding from the brexit campaign: vulnerable citizens risk not regaining the control they aspire to, but losing it. only on one condition will they be protected by specific acquired rights: that they are not commodities and are included in the withdrawal agreement. it is up to this parliament to give legal certainty to northern ireland and to the frightened citizens. it is up to us to recognize our mistakes and to build a social union which avoids the rejection of so many of its citizens and an escape from the europe we must begin to understand.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, jacques delors used to say that it is impossible to fall in love with the internal market. he's probably still right, and maybe that's why the british left. the single market is one of the success stories of the european integration process. if there is one thing that brexit does, it is to bring out more and more every day the benefits, perceived or not, that the single market brings to everyone's lives. our task is to preserve the values and freedoms that underlie it in their integrity. brexit requires the european institutions and the member states to take a step forward. in a world increasingly divided, increasingly protectionist, increasingly held hostage by extremism of all kinds, today is a day of european pride. the future of the united kingdom, important and dear to us, is not at stake, but the fate of 27 european peoples. we owe these people answers. that's what history will judge us on.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that most of us would never have wanted to have this discussion. i think most europeans would never have wanted to hear about brexit. we must now approach this negotiating phase with determination, but also with balance, mr barnier. we shall be adopting a very timely and farsighted resolution today. i would like to thank the president of parliament and the chairmen of the political groups who signed it. we know that the negotiations will not be short or easy. what we need to do is speak with one voice, with the voice of the 27 countries and the three institutions that must march together. we must negotiate with our citizens in mind, we must be ambitious with our demands and transparent and linear with our values of unity. we must use the language of truth. brexit, let's be clear, is not going to stop us: the european council in rome on the occasion of the anniversary of the treaties reaffirmed the need for a european union which would be more inclusive and more democratic. we must look ahead without distractions and alibis, confident that our project of a union of peace and prosperity will be strengthened. this, ladies and gentlemen, is the opportunity for the revival of our union.
madam chairman, mr. barnier, today we are setting out the principles that will guide the negotiations and the foundations of our future partnership. mr. barnier, you're on the right track. the slogan of the negotiations should be 'citizens first!'. it is our duty to allay their fears and provide concrete answers, for example to students from other european union countries who live in britain and benefit from programmes such as erasmus. securing their rights must be our top priority from the start of the negotiations. the european union must remain firm on the four freedoms. brexit has consequences and there can be no 'europe a la carte' scenario. it cannot have a status similar to that of the member states. the key is to have a clear vision of the road ahead. first the withdrawal agreement, then the new partnership. to build a stable home, we must start from the foundation, not the roof. it is the responsibility of the member states to commit to no parallel negotiations. finally, the full involvement of the european parliament. this is key to ensuring transparency and open public debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with those who say that nothing will change with brexit, not least because we do not know what the consequences will be. i agree with those who say that negotiations will be constructive if they are centred on the interests of the people: the people of europe and also the people of the united kingdom. no retaliation, no retaliation, then, but clear rules are in order. and we need to reiterate what the rules are for the european union. of course, respect for the four freedoms and, in the power of the european union, the policy of developing international trade. nobody thinks of tearing down the european edifice, but nobody plays against to divide or weaken the united kingdom. the negotiations must have a political dimension, we must make sure that our friendship, our relations, our cooperation, are more robust in the end. we must work together on this, and today's resolution is a good starting point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, not all britons hate the european union as mr farage does. i would like to remind you that 48% of the british people voted to remain in the european union, and i would like to remember with particular affection and emotion my colleague jo cox, a british member of parliament who was murdered during the referendum campaign. no one has ever forced the united kingdom to do anything. i heard some incredible words: threats, punishment, the mob. you have freely decided to join the european union and you freely decide to leave the european union. no reprisals, but you can't impose your chaos on us. no, then, to parallel negotiations: as long as you're part of the european union, you can't negotiate with the wto. we are responding to the disorder of brexit with the unity called for by juncker and barnier, with the unity that is the quiet strength of our institution.
i have received four motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 5 april 2017, at 12.00 noon. i thank all those who took part in the debate, the president of the european commission, the negotiator of the european union, the representative of the council and all the members who spoke during this debate. parliament will play a decisive role in these negotiations, and will vote in favour or against in the end, in accordance with the rules of democracy. in this chamber there are 751 members of parliament representing 500 million european citizens, all of them duly elected. there are no mafia, no gangsters, there are representatives of the people and this is not a matter of national sensibility, it is a matter of civilization and democracy. (applause) i would like to thank
mr carver has asked to speak on an item on the agenda.
it does not seem to me to be an item on the agenda according to the rules of procedure. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for months now, in these chambers, there has been talk of the likely harmful effects of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. we have been talking about the brexit problem for months, as if there was really a need to discuss the democratic result of a democratic referendum. the english people have voted and decided. the vow must be honored. that is not to be questioned. now the negotiations begin: on the one hand, there is the uk government, which will do what is in the interests of british citizens, and on the other hand, there is the european union, which i'm not sure will do what is in the interests of european citizens. i think of those european citizens who have been living and working in the uk for years: their rights must be protected and not be questioned through responsible confrontation. the united kingdom will have to honour its commitments until the actual exit from the union is complete, because the commitments it has made must be respected. we have reached this point, however, because serious mistakes have been made. the perpetrators must apologize and present a black book of the past, not a blank white book of an uncertain future. everyone does their part. we are asking for a fair and just negotiation, and above all not punitive towards the british people. the five star movement will not be complicit in political choices aimed at punishing one to educate a hundred. and if there is talk of the mafia in the european parliament, we must not be shocked like the bourgeois at an exclusive party. the mafia exists, not only in italy. the mafia is not europe, the mafia is not italy, the mafia is silence and censorship, as well as crime. the mafia is an attitude of threat and omertà.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 june and 29 march are two sadly historic dates which marked a step back in british history and a setback for the european union. now, after the referendum and the notification of the activation of article 50, so be it. without further ado, i should say. because after the decision of the people of the united kingdom, as legitimate as it is absurd, it is the european union which cannot afford insecurity and uncertainty. i believe that the priority now is to think about stability and safeguarding the interests of the union. i believe that the negotiations for the withdrawal of the united kingdom must make it clear that the union is stronger, and that the united kingdom alone will achieve little. i am convinced that the rights of european citizens should not be called into question, and i am convinced that this is an opportunity to demonstrate to the populists, the sovereigntists and the nationalists throughout europe that their propaganda is empty and sterile, without a political project. i am among those who dream that, although it is difficult, the united kingdom can one day go backwards for its future and for that of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the already extreme words of the british defence minister, michael fallon, make us understand the role of great responsibility that the european union will have to play in the negotiations, which it will have to deal with, also with concern for the fate of the united kingdom. the united kingdom's choice is a leap into the unknown, out of any long-term political project, but geographically it remains there, close to france and the benelux, and history teaches us that generating frustration in neighbouring countries always leads to disastrous consequences. we must leave the door open for the united kingdom to realise its mistake and to turn back, but we must be careful about the messages that are being sent, lest responsibility be confused with weakness. the issues on the table are many and will affect both financial obligations and individual rights. i would like to wish the european negotiators every success. i am sure that brexit will be an opportunity to give a stronger boost to the european dream.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this regulation because it is an important step forward for the health and safety of citizens. the new european medical device rules will have a twofold positive effect: ensure the safety of these important tools and at the same time give patients the opportunity to benefit from innovative healthcare solutions in a timely manner. the introduction of the responsibility of the manufacturer is particularly important. similarly, quality and performance follow-up will allow manufacturers to respond quickly if problems arise and help them to continuously improve their devices. the health of citizens, access to advanced technologies that improve treatment and alleviate suffering are the european union's primary objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution on the amendment of the multiannual budget because there are indeed positive aspects to this revision, but it must be stressed, and it is useless to deny it, that we would have expected much, much more. at a time of such delicate importance for the european union, we certainly needed more courage. if the purpose of amending the union budget is to adapt it to new challenges, i do not think the proposed corrections are up to the task. it's a small step. the effort to give priority to measures to promote youth employment is therefore certainly to be welcomed. an extra 1.2 billion for young people is a positive. that is why i voted in favour: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a rigid budget is a sign of myopia. the future of the european union and of europe itself is uncertain. so the keyword is flexibility, but we have to do better.
the agenda includes a discussion on hate speech, populism and fake news on social media towards an eu response (2017/2644 ((rsp)). many members have asked to be allowed to speak by the procedures which are generally provided for in our discussions (catch-the-eye and blue-card questions), but i would remind you that, unfortunately, these procedures will not be accepted on this occasion. you know that there has been a change in the rules of procedure, proposed by the political groups, and these procedures are not foreseen for this debate.
as you know, mrs gollnisch, the political groups have decided to put the debate we are about to begin on the agenda and have introduced the new regulation into this debate, which, as you know, has entered into force and which we must respect.
president-in-office of the council. thank you for inviting the presidency to give our views on how the european union can respond to hate speech, populism and fake news on social media on behalf of the council on a subject of common concern. let me start with the first part of the topic, namely hate speech. evidence from different sources such as the european union agency for fundamental rights and the council of europe confirms an alarming increase in intolerance and hatred in europe. there may be various reasons for this phenomenon, but there is certainly no justification for it. the european union has adopted specific legislation on combating intolerance and hatred, notably including the 2008 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. and in june last year, in 2016, the council also invited member states to ensure the effective transposition and implementation of the framework decision and other relevant laws related to hate crimes at national level in order to fight the scourge of hate crimes. and furthermore, the council also asked the member states to develop effective methods to report hate crimes and thus ensure their proper registration. there is no doubt, mr president, that the means of social communication are today one of the main means, as the honourable member fajon has also said, one of the main means by which hate speech is being spread to the greatest number of people and in the shortest possible time. and a possible remedy against this epidemic is a coordinated and determined european response. in the context of interinstitutional cooperation, the council has also already supported the ambitious plans of the commission's high level group which is trying to develop, with the member states, concrete practices and tools to improve the response to racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. and so we also welcome and support the ongoing dialogue at european union level with leading it companies to address this scourge. last but not least in this respect we should also remember and commend the excellent work done by the agency to which you referred earlier. these countermeasures are all in vain, however, if we forget the important role of education and our work among young people. and more specifically the need to develop democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance, critical thinking and even conflict resolution skills in the learning process. finally, i would also like to stress that combating hate speech online is also one of our priorities as president. in fact, just tomorrow in valletta, around 100 experts will be meeting to discuss how to effectively deliver positive narratives against hate speech online and the role of the european union and the member states in supporting civil society in this effort. a positive element of this event is, i think, the fact that social media is being seen not only as the problem but as part of the solution. i now wish to go into more detail on the second part of the debate: the manipulation and propaganda through fake news. fake news and misinformation that are considered by many to be dangerous to democracies because they threaten the very foundations of our societies: citizens elect their representatives on the basis of political views formed by open and fair debate. the rise in popularity of the internet and social media has led to a flood of news sources, which is good in itself, but many of them are not reliable. it is a reality. and so news organizations are under increasing pressure to deliver a continuous stream of news at the moment it happens, leaving less time, as time, for quality control and auditing. and so that's a challenge on the newsrooms that we understand. in addition, you also have populist actors spreading misinformation to support their narratives, which is particularly harmful in years when the people are making their democratic choices. it is not easy for citizens to identify fake news, or even to find and access reliable information. we have already heard some proposals and i imagine that other members will speak about them during this debate. the algorithms put people in bubbles: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. and so prejudices are reinforced as the media create bubbles that filter information. and so it takes governments, news organizations and even it companies to recognize these dangers and take action against them. the presidency uses the media, including the internet, to ensure that reliable information on our work is accessible. but we are not just talking about our work here, we are talking in a much broader sense. i also heard that some news organisations, i think in france, are also now joining social media platforms in fighting the rise of fake news online. and in some other member states, the call for legislation to protect political debate from manipulation and outright deception on social media is growing. it companies believe they have a role to play in society and so that is protecting this core element that is our democracies. president, honourable members, i would like to conclude by stressing how important it is that we do not allow our citizens to be deceived by fake news and our societies to be determined by hatred. we also use social platforms, we also see these realities and i hope that social media is the platform where one expresses positivity, the platform where one shares with one's friends, with the community in which one lives, the positive experiences, and does not have to be fooled by fake news and even dominated by hatred. our role is also to remind ourselves of our responsibilities and to be serious and responsible about everything we say. and for that reason, freedom of expression has its limits and it is our common responsibility to strike that fair balance although i know that this is difficult and often not easy.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, politicians have a responsibility to uphold european fundamental values of freedom, democracy and solidarity. we have a responsibility to make sure that we have effective tools to address situations where the right to free expression is deliberately abused to promote violent extremism or discrimination against certain groups in society. this is based on the set of values laid down in article 2 of the treaty: ‘the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities.’ it is our collective duty to show that democracy is there for everyone. countering all expressions of discrimination, violence and intolerance is a priority for all of us. it requires a joint effort. the eu has increased its actions to prevent and fight against different forms of hate crime and hate speech. the proliferation of hate speech online is shrinking the space for democratic discussions. when ‘toxic narratives’ about migrants and religious minorities publicly incite hatred and violence, the thin line between hate speech and hate crime merges into one. where public incitement to violence and hatred is spread against groups or individuals on grounds of their race, ethnicity or religion, we have eu laws that criminalise these kinds of behaviour. the commission has engaged with the social media operators to counter illegal online hate speech. in may 2016, it companies – facebook, microsoft, twitter and youtube – agreed a voluntary code of conduct with commitments to take action and tackle illegal online content that publicly incites violence and hatred. we will present the results of this self-regulatory exercise next month. the commission’s proposal to revise the audiovisual media services directive widens the definition of hate speech by referring to ‘incitement to violence or hatred’, and includes ethnic origin, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. it calls for a requirement for video-sharing platforms to protect people against incitement to violence or hatred. the commission is now assessing whether improved eu-wide procedures are needed for the removal of illegal content from online platforms. we will announce our conclusions on 10 may this year as part of the mid-term review of the digital single market. fake news – or simply ‘lies’ – are also a serious problem... (the speaker was interrupted by off-microphone comments from ms morvai)
on the. morvai, you see, she can't interrupt the discussion. we're talking about tolerance and intolerance, so try to be respectful of the discussion and our guests.
mr morvai, you have shown your placards, but i invite you to sit down, take your seat, and follow the discussion. please don't let me in.
i'm sorry, but you didn't have to ask me, because i did before your surgery. i invite mr morvai, who has shown his placards, to sit down and take his place. don't abuse my patience. i've asked you twice already.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize to those watching from home, i apologize to the public who are listening to this nonsense. i don't think you're normal, you know. there are 20 million unemployed in europe, there is islamic terrorism, there is uncontrolled immigration, and what are you doing to the european parliament, which is otherwise empty on a wednesday afternoon? with the facebook chatter, the hoaxes, the fake news! you should be treated by a good doctor! i would like to know whether... (the president interrupts) (applause) thank you for the applause. you'll be thrown out if you clap, so be careful... (president interrupts speaker)
mr salvini, you must respect not only the decision of a chamber which has democratically decided to discuss this subject, but also the decision of the members who have spoken. i urge you to be careful of the words you use.
so, this vague threat is neither hot nor cold. for european peoples, to be against islamic terrorism means to be islamophobic, to be against gay adoption means to be homophobic, to want to close roma camps or block illegal invasion means to be racist. no, it means to have common sense, it means to be free men. you're doing badly, you can't buy brains, you can't control the newspapers, the tv news, the radio. in britain they voted as they wanted, in the united states they voted as they wanted, in italy they voted as they wanted, and you are going crazy. so what are you guys up to? i'm not going to give you a chance to talk about it. you invent the ministry of truth of george orwell, the ministry of propaganda. i expect the european parliament to pay for the psycho-police to investigate the psycho-crimes of those who are not aligned with the single thought and the single currency. you can make up all the gags you want. the only thing you can do is pack your bags and go find a real job, because freedom is not stopped by anyone, here or anywhere else. thank you and long live the web, long live facebook.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have brought you three articles from the mainstream media: colin powell presenting evidence of saddam hussein's weapons of mass destruction, the catastrophic outcome of brexit and the apocalypse if he won the "no" vote in the italian referendum. these are three examples to show that fake news has always existed, long before the advent of the internet. fake news has always existed, because this is the information that you have used to manipulate information, for example by funding european propaganda. but who can have the authority to say what is true and what is false? the truth is that you are the power that is trying to exonerate itself for the mistakes it has made, for having given the citizens into the hands of the banks and the finance. you're stuck in this ivory tower and you don't even know it. and for one reason: because the net scares you. because the web allows you to get in touch with citizens, without actually having a filter in front of you, and so that's why you proposed, for example, the creation of an independent truth-checking authority on the web. here, watch this: please don't jeopardize the freedom of the net, because it's very dangerous, and you could even have an authoritarian drift. the solution is education, civic responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want informed and aware citizens. you want controlled media. i would like to end by quoting our founder of the five star movement, gianroberto casaleggio: "on the internet, information can be true or false, or both, but on the internet, it is impossible to sustain a lie for long".
mrs aker, i remind you that the brexit debate took place this morning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this debate is actually a bit ideological. the most tragic case of fake news in our time is the legend of saddam's weapons of mass destruction, which has nothing to do with populism or social media. i do not want to deny that there is a serious problem with the quality of information. the internet revolution has produced a monopoly system, in these years, unregulated, where a very few players, google and facebook first, collect 90% of the resources, they have no responsibility for what they publish, do not produce content, do not pay taxes, while journalists, publishers and independents go hungry. and the audience is bombarded with garbage. we could intervene, but we don't want to. the truth is that the commission, for example, does not want to interfere with the e-commerce directive, which is 17 years old and is shockingly inadequate. so there is a suspicion that they want to talk about politics and not intervene to protect the interests of the citizens. let me give you three seconds to explain what happened in this house. mr salvini does not take political work seriously. i, before i was elected here, worked for 38 years, since i was 17, in the "real jobs". mr. salvini has been on a political salary since he was 20. i feel sorry for him . she must have a low self-esteem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very different areas have been deliberately mixed up here. but hate speech, cyberbullying, violence and online threats - which are condemnable and unacceptable, of course - are one thing, while so-called populism and alleged hoaxes are quite another. the latter have in fact become the pretext for making even the legitimate expression of diversity of political opinion pathological or abnormal, with the consequent risk of an anti-democratic crackdown. the fact that facebook, for example, is turning to a fact-checking institute, sponsored by organizations and foundations linked to the interests of multinational corporations or financial speculators, does not give us peace of mind. who has the right to delete or censor information? finally, let me say a few words about the much-maligned populism. why are the people, groups, movements that speak to citizens and act for their greater involvement in decision-making seen by so many of you as smoke in the eyes? why do you consider as an enemy those who criticize austerity and austerity policies, or this europe of the euro, of the big financial markets? is it not because they show that the king is naked and that this is not a union of european citizens based on cooperation, solidarity and equality? why do you point the finger at the moon?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very sensitive subject today, which concerns certain aspects, certain levels. the first is the conditions for freedom of expression, access to information, fairness of information and therefore for ethics and real responsibility in the age of social media, which must see a level playing field of responsibility across the media system, and this is one aspect. but there's also the issue of hate speech content or fake news, which are actually creating very dramatic impacts, not just on democracy: i am thinking of the organized intervention of genuine campaigns, including from foreign states, which alter democratic choices, but i am also thinking of forms of persecution: think about cyberbullying, think about the mad persecution that has led to many young men and women committing suicide in my country recently. and here, mr ansip, we are not only seeing how the over-the-top media are giving themselves codes - this is very important - but, as we are also doing in the avms directive, we want the european commission's directives to include mechanisms for the immediate removal of such content and for holding these media accountable.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, extremist fake news and hate speech are all closely connected. they challenge the values on which the eu is based. however, each requires a different policy response. the concept of free speech protects not only that which we agree with, but also that which is critical or disturbing. we need to address the spread of false information by improving media literacy and critical thinking, as well as by better communicating why democracy, the rule of law and the protection of minorities and fundamental rights are key interests for everyone. by contrast, illegal hate speech that incites violence or hatred based on race, ethnic or national origin, colour or religion is not protected by free speech. it is illegal. the commission will continue to make sure that eu law is enforced in the online, as well as in the offline, world. in all these actions we have to bear in mind that it is our responsibility to protect fundamental rights and freedom of expression in the european union. we have to believe in the common sense of our people. once again, fake news is bad, but the ministry of truth is even worse. it was said more than a century ago that you can fool all the people some of the time and you can fool some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time; but it is still valid today.
president-in-office of the council. i think that the words used by the vice-president to close his speech are timely and of course also as council we have heard the thoughts expressed by the members of this house this afternoon and they continue to confirm how much more we have to commit ourselves, not only as council i would like to assure this house that we will certainly continue to see together with the member states that the legislation that has to be observed is observed and therefore that there is also better care for the victims; but the need also is that all of us - the different institutions and, above all, european citizens - are responsible for everything we do and above all say. the internet and social media platforms are more than ever an intrinsic part of our lives and i believe that the last thing we and our children should experience on them is hatred, xenophobia and even news that does not honour the one who is spreading them because he cannot win the argument with the weapon of truth. i am convinced that both as council and as presidency, as i said: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation.
in writing. the circulation of fake news on the internet - so-called 'fake news' - is a problem which must be tackled as soon as possible on a supranational scale and in an effective manner. the internet is an extraordinary source of information, but it can also become a dangerous tool for the artificial manipulation of reality in order to weaken and disrupt the consensus around the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. the rightful freedom to inform through the internet has highlighted the need for clear regulation that provides greater certainty about the legal responsibilities of those who, through the amplifying power of social media, leverage the creation and dissemination of slander, lies and incitement to racial and institutional hatred to generate income, unconcerned with the devastating social effects that such activities entail. since the network has no borders or barriers, the issue can only be effectively addressed at international level. i therefore welcome the debate which has opened up today in parliament on this subject and hope that this reflection will involve the other eu institutions as soon as possible in order to arrive at ready, concrete and effective responses.
in writing. a whole old information society, easily controlled and enslaved to political and economic power, is increasingly in crisis. hate speech and fake news did not come with the advent of the internet and social media, nor do they manifest exclusively through these channels. information that distorts reality, spread by the mainstream media, and that has been used to justify wars and maneuvers by certain power groups are recurrent in contemporary societies. the risk that the demands for excessive regulation of the internet will lead to a form of censorship of alternative news channels is clear. hate speech and fake news have a soft spot in all those situations where we see a lack of transparency, where there is a lack of democratic control. it is enough to think about the decision-making processes that take place in ways unknown to most people by bodies that are not elected by anyone. citizens have the right to know the truth and to have their freedom of expression protected. what they need is not a gag, but policies that can give them the tools of knowledge, that can bridge educational gaps and economic disparities, so that they feel informed, aware and fully free.
in writing. there are an estimated 3.4 billion internet users. that means that a fake news story can reach 3.5 billion people with a single click. for news, going around the world on the internet is easy: and then news like "the pope supports donald trump" bounces around from continent to continent. needless to say, denials never reach the same circulation as the primary news. false information is now a well-established phenomenon, even ridden and exploited by those who do business with clicks and advertising, certainly all this must be countered through the empowerment of online platforms that publish the news. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. fake news is accurate and scientific constructs of those who often have a specific political design. it's not easy, regulating the web is controversial, difficult. in addition to the legislation necessary to punish those who spread false news, we must fight fake news on its own ground, with real and truthful news, with a militancy of truth. with simple and effective information that opposes the instrumentality of populism, the force of reason against the force of falsehood.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, from 15 june, telephone companies will abolish roaming charges. it will be possible for all european citizens to surf and telephone throughout europe at the same rate as at home. great, it looks like a commercial. because what we are missing is the attention to the national tariff. because the risk is that the telephone company can somehow compensate for the lack of roaming revenue by increasing some specific service at national level, a service which then affects all citizens, even those who may never set foot abroad. why is that? because wholesale prices are still too high, and not because of parliament, which, thanks to an amendment of ours, actually cut them in half. it is the council that has doubled them, not parliament. it is the council that has doubled the number of calls, choosing once again to side with the strongest, the large mobile telephone companies, while penalising small businesses and citizens as a whole. so on that, mr. president, let me be very clear: i welcome the abolition of roaming, provided it does not become a joke, with increases at national level for all citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank mrs kumpula-natri who has worked with you on this result, which is certainly only the first step, as the commissioner has said in some interviews, but it is certainly a very important step. we have worked on this for many years, pilar del castillo, catherine trautmann, whom i would like to commend to this house for the work i myself have done on the single telecom market and so on, to achieve this much-desired 'like at home' tariff. but this fine result - we have heard it before in this house, in a speech by the five star movement - is minimized, and it is said: "but what, there's like at home but then they'll raise the home, they'll find tricks... " these colleagues who have downplayed this result in the italian press also forget that we have put safeguards and precautions in that measure and in previous ones. there will be control, in addition to competition, mr kariņš, and i really ask the commission, berec and the national authorities to be very vigilant and careful, because we have done this in earnest, this wholesale market review, to get to the end of roaming, and we will not allow games, nor will we allow anyone to degrade this measure, as if it were not necessary. i want to take this opportunity to say a second thing to the commissioner. i 'm moving on . we must show that we are serious, without uncertainties, not one step forward and one step back. this is a road map that must be followed to the end, or else the credibility of this institution will be lost. in this connection, some doubts have been raised in the past week: berec guidelines have been issued which have given some advise, some unclear interpretation on the fair use clause. fortunately, the commission has been quick to clarify matters. i ask you, mr commissioner, with the support of parliament, to ensure that no one strays from this path that has been traced, that it looks fairly at the financial results, at the balance sheet of companies, but basically looks at the citizens with a gesture and a choice that was very symbolic, because this is something symbolic of europe's action in the interests of the citizens and for the unity of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of roaming charges, which is due to take place on 15 june, will put an end to the abuses perpetrated over the last year and a half by certain telephone companies which have exploited the grey areas of the new regulation. exactly one year ago, in a written question to the commission, i denounced the incorrect practice of automatically activating flat-rate plans for roaming services, which hampers the application of the new tariffs due to the lack of transparency on the net cost of calls. i therefore believe that the decision by berec to include in the new guidelines recently published the possibility of a 12-month extension for the elimination of roaming should be reviewed. and it is of little use to deny the national authorities these days, if among the exceptional circumstances is that of economic unsustainability - an exception, by the way, renewable from year to year. it is a rather artificial question, given that the abolition of roaming has been under discussion for about ten years and operators have had all the time they need to prepare their commercial strategies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before we came to visa liberalisation with ukraine, the progress made by the country of the former soviet union in political and civil matters and its approach to the fundamental principles of the european union were the subject of constant scrutiny by the european institutions. since the start of the dialogue in october 2008, the commission has published 6 progress reports on the implementation of the plan and ukraine has embarked on a major path of democratic transformation following the 2014 presidential elections. the country has made significant progress in border control, the fight against corruption, organised crime and money laundering, and the support of the european union has been a lever in tackling such serious problems. the issue of biometric passports made in accordance with international standards will allow ukrainian citizens to enter europe and vice versa, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. the european union will have to commit itself to guaranteeing and monitoring the respect of the partnership conditions even after liberalisation, while maintaining a strong and fruitful relationship with ukraine.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for this excellent report. the union's enlargement policy is an investment in peace, security and economic opportunity, to the mutual benefit of the european union and the countries that aspire to join it. but we must ensure that the future member states implement deep reforms in every area, from transport to domestic and foreign policy. cross-border connections must be strengthened, customs procedures harmonised and the results required by cop 21 shared. i am confident that the pržino agreement will lead to a stable government in view of accession to the european union. i also hope that a compromise will be found with greece, with which there is a dispute over the official name of the country, and with bulgaria, so that relations between the two countries can be improved. i therefore reiterate the need to increase efforts in all areas for a shared integration process that will bring benefits to the macedonian and european citizens.
president-in-office of the council. i thank you for the questions put to the council and i hope that i will give the best answer in the name of the institution i represent, which will help the debate here. the european union is fully committed to the united nations human rights system and considers human rights as a stand-alone and cross-cutting issue. in particular, the european union is committed to promoting equality between women and men, including the labour market as well as in terms of women's economic independence and empowerment, in that sense, which was also the priority theme of the 61st commission session on the status of women. the values and principles for european union action in the field of gender equality reaffirmed by the council on several occasions and the european parliament's recommendations on european union priorities for the same commission session are consistent with each other. your recommendations also served as a useful tool for the european negotiating team during the negotiation of the agreed conclusions. the council notably in cohom did not have the opportunity to make its assessment of the [session]. but although it is still pending, we can still mention a few elements today. firstly, the presidency has been quite active in new york, through my colleague minister helena dalli, whom i understand you also met during this session. it also, together with other members from several member states participated in several side events. and i also know that your delegation, led by you, honourable blinkevičiūtė, was particularly active, having organised an event in which the permanent representative of malta to the un also participated. minister dalli in particular reiterated the importance of economic empowerment for women and girls and gender equality, which are also prerequisites for achieving the goals set out in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. it also recalled how the european union remained committed to the full and effective implementation of the beijing platform for action. it also stated how the european union strongly encourages the universal ratification of the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and its optional protocols. the presidency also stressed that it is the duty of the member states to ensure that equal rights between women and men in all spheres of life are enshrined in legislation and become a reality and are implemented. in this context, the european union called on all countries that have not yet done so to sign, ratify and fully implement also the relevant ilo conventions. the presidency also stressed the importance of combating gender stereotypes as a means of achieving gender equality and women's empowerment. in addition, in new york, the european union called for action to close the global digital gender gap in technology access, use, education and even training that would enable women and girls to benefit from technological and digital developments. the presidency also condemned all forms of violence against women and girls, and stressed how women's financial and economic independence is essential to enable women to emerge from abusive relationships. as i said, honourable members, the full assessment is still pending, but as an initial reaction after the session, it was felt that many of the paragraphs that were agreed in the agreed final conclusions were the result of input from several delegations and also served as an exercise of constructive engagement. however a disappointing element was the fact that the result of the final product was largely an interpretation rather than a reflection of a negotiated result. in particular, it is also disappointing that the link between human rights, women's economic empowerment, sexual and reproductive health and rights, could not be made stronger. the continuous insistence on language in the national policy space is another concern that is unnecessarily limiting the ambition of the commission, as is the fact that references to civil society have been limited and have not met the ambitions of previous years. nevertheless, the european union will continue to strive and work with other partners to build consensus on these and other issues, and to be true to its commitment to gender equality, human rights for all women and girls, and their empowerment. in particular i would also like to stress the need for an ambitious and transformative approach to tackling the root causes and risk factors of gender inequality, discrimination and violence against them. the importance of investing in ensuring equal access for women and girls to quality primary, secondary and tertiary education was also emphasised, and the importance of promoting the full participation of women was also emphasised; leadership at all levels of decision-making, in political, economic, public as well as private life. i would also like to raise the concern about the global gag rule, which you discussed in the last plenary session and which you also mentioned in your question. the council is concerned about the reinstatement of the global gag rule, and its implications on the target of achieving universal coverage in health and reproductive health services, and eventually on the targets within the sustainable development goals to reduce maternal mortality and empower women. the threat of a financial gap is a reality. the amount of the financial deduction and what should be the best approach for the future are still being examined. the development ministers addressed this issue at their informal meeting on 16 march, also in the light of the decision by a number of member states to compensate for the loss of funds with the she decides fundraising initiative. the council also recalls that we will only have an impact if we respond and serve together strongly and as a european union. we must say that the united states also remains an important partner of the european union in international cooperation and development policy and stress that it is only by working together with the united states that we can continue to make a significant impact. finally, on the particularly important issue: violence against women. sadly, violence is a pervasive problem in all our societies and indeed is a worldwide one. we need to do more much more to eradicate it. the council has always stressed the importance of this issue; for example, in its conclusions adopted in december, the council again called on the member states and the commission to 'increase actions to combat violence against women . . of . of the the council did not take a position on the ilo's prospective standard on violence against women in the world of work. however, the european union supported this at the ilo. i think we all look forward to hearing more about the evolution of this very important work, in which the european union will certainly play a strong part. gender-based violence is a scourge that erodes the lives of its victims. the issue is very broad and needs to be addressed on several fronts. i know that this is a subject on which all institutions agree, and therefore ending violence is our common responsibility. let us continue to work in the different forums to achieve this goal and then we will really see that european policy is effective in this respect too.
on 14 february this year, the femm committee, of which i am a member, adopted a recommendation to the council setting out some of the priorities to be discussed at the 61st csw. i would like to stress that there is a global movement which on 8 march filled the streets of over 50 countries around the world to denounce, as does the femm committee's recommendation, that male violence against women is the most widespread violation of human rights worldwide, which is independent of all factors of age, social class or economic status and which harms entire communities, has considerable economic and social costs and limits and undermines social growth. this global movement is called "not one less". in italy, its main focus is currently the development of an anti-feminist violence plan which will be presented before the summer. i say this because i think that progress like this in italy represents progress in europe and globally, because it can help to redress human rights violations. the commission on the status of women 2017 had as its central theme 'women's economic empowerment in the changing world of work'. violence against women, as the istanbul convention, which has not yet been ratified by 14 member states of the union, emphasizes, is not only physical violence but also psychological violence, unpaid domestic work, wage gaps. i think that the recommendations made by this parliament should be given more weight. i believe that the work of the gender mainstreaming network, for example, should be made effective in the transition from the european parliament to the council and, in cascade, to all the governments of the member states.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the main priorities of this edition of the commission on the status of women, which i attended together with the femm delegation, were the economic empowerment of women, the challenges and objectives in achieving sustainable development for women and girls and the empowerment of indigenous women. the four-day mission stressed the need for the european union to accede to the istanbul convention and to strengthen cooperation with the united nations in the fight against violence against women and in the achievement of equal treatment for men and women. however, one of the problems that could arise is related to the lack of transparency and proper information for all actors in the international community, starting with the citizens. i believe that once you have found the right solutions, it is important to promote them institutionally and above all in the media, to involve everyone proactively and to enable everyone to contribute. in addition, as i have personally expressed to the un secretary-general, there is an urgent need to provide concrete instruments alongside existing policies to encourage member states to implement existing rules and to monitor changes over time, especially with regard to rules on combating violence against women. only by adopting a holistic and cross-cutting approach, including education, training and culture, can women's empowerment and gender equality be achieved.
i am very pleased, madam president, that we are here, after the commission meeting, to assess the results of the work of this important body and to consider what conclusions the work of this body should draw for the policy of the european union. i must say that i am disappointed with the approach of the council representative to today's meeting, because i was really expecting the conclusions of the meeting to have been evaluated, and the answer of the council representative was that the conclusions have not yet been evaluated, more or less. it is therefore difficult to debate conclusions when they are not evaluated, and therefore we stick to the general theses. i regret this, because i consider the issue of women's status and gender equality to be extremely important, not only in the european union but also in the third world. and we have to ask ourselves, what can we do to improve the position of women in the third world? the issue of women and their economic position is very important and we need to be clear about what we will do in the future to bring equal pay between men and women for equal work, so that we can make it easier for women mothers to return to work in the european union after they have completed their maternity leave. what can be done to ensure that these women do not lose their professional qualifications and can continue their careers after maternity leave? and there's a whole series of concrete things that i hope we'll talk about in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the coming years will be increasingly crucial in reaffirming the role of the european union in defence of women, and the meeting of the un commission on the status of women last march was a first and fundamental step in this direction. the european union is increasingly becoming a key global actor in defending the role of women, in defending their independence and emancipation, but not just economic independence and emancipation, as has already been said. i believe that we should increasingly oppose the systematic attacks on, for example, sexual and reproductive rights, which, ladies and gentlemen, are the basis of respect for women as independent subjects in their choices. and the results achieved so far cannot and should not be called into question. this is what we should be doing on the world stage. we hope that the council and the commission will continue to fight these battles.
before i begin, since there are disturbing reports in the press from chechnya of the torture and murder of citizens of that republic because of their sexual orientation, i would like to ask the chechen authorities to provide the international community with accurate and detailed information as soon as possible on what is happening, confirming that the european parliament strongly condemns all forms of persecution and discrimination against people on the grounds of their sexual, racial, religious and political orientation. this is true within the european union, but we also defend our values outside the borders of our union.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have great respect for all the peoples who are victims of persecution and violence, especially those who suffered in the second world war. but today, behind the lie of inclusion, europe is spending avalanches of money on the roma, millions of euros that are useless, because the integration of the roma is practically zero, because they are the ones who do not want to integrate. this money should be given to our citizens, to our unemployed, to our families in need. come to italy and see how roma have not integrated. ask the police, the mayors, the citizens who have the misfortune to live near the roma camps. read the newspapers, watch television, and every day you will find avalanches of news about the problems and hardships our citizens are forced to endure because of the roma. and don't let anyone say we're racist, because we're not. we're just saying real things that happen every day. it's not even international roma day, is it? it is not enough to say that the roma are the victims of the oppression and the problems caused by the roma. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. so, i live in italy and i don't live on the moon. and in italy, every day, law enforcement enters roma camps, regular or irregular. and yes, they find children with no shoes, poor clothes and no food. but they find them next to the cars, the mercedes, the audi, the cars that have obviously been bought, i don't know how, i hope not with european funds. and that is a shame, that is a great shame! that's all there is to it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. european funds for roma integration in italy have either been spent badly or not at all. because, as i said before, roma children in italy do not want to go to school, because their families force them to beg or steal. i 'm not saying that . if you want to read the newspapers, even today in the newspapers it says this, even today it says this. or everyone comes to italy, the worst, the bad, and the good come to you... because that, unfortunately, is the simple reality. and i challenge any italian parliamentarian to say otherwise. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i, who first came to the european parliament in 2009, asked how much money was spent on roma, because i couldn't figure out where it was spent in italy, because unfortunately the money for roma and integration didn't work. it's because they don't want to integrate with us. this is happening in italy, unfortunately, this is happening in italy. i would invite you, whenever you want, to come with me to the roma camps, accompanied of course by the police, because alone it is impossible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning i would have expected to see this house 751 parliamentarians paid by european citizens, and i do not know how many paid by the roma communities to work on concrete actions on the real problems of our european citizens, on the real fragility of our europe. i would have expected to talk about the elderly, i would have expected to talk about the disabled, i would have expected to talk about the unemployed, the young or the real problems of this europe, for example security: in italy, we have a home invasion every two minutes. i was expecting to hear about that. and yet we are here talking about fake victims, fake problems, and in doing so we are certainly not being credible and serious. we have a vision of the world: we look at what the effect is, but we don't look at what the cause is. let's not look at what the italian citizens, for example, are asking themselves: what do the roma do? what do the roma do for a living? how do they pay for the new, new-generation trailers, the cars? where does the public money go to pay for the water or electricity in the roma camps? why do we have to have 124 roma camps in italy out of 167? why do children in these communities not have the right to go to school? why, who is behind the begging and exploitation of these minors? that is what we wanted to talk about, the problem that out of the 2 400 minors in italy who are experiencing legal difficulties, 1 500 are roma minors. that's what we wanted to talk to you about.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the obvious situation, which is also shown by the statistics, with 10% of roma children not reaching secondary school, with a concentration of discrimination and poverty, none of us can say that we are up to the challenge of today. i do not need some colleague to say this in such absurd and unacceptable terms, which i do not think are worthy of this debate. but i think we know one thing: there is a commitment from the commission, there are national strategies that we must certainly check, also in the use of european funds, and there are very interesting experiences of inclusion, for example a pilot project that i know has achieved a very interesting result in romania with regard to educational inclusion. i was the regional councillor in my region and i understood some things. first of all: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is guaranteed. first of all: involving families (with scholarships given to children and involving families in responsibility, incredible results are achieved); the involvement of roma associations and of lay or religious associations that deal with them in a very proactive manner; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to support the cultural mediators and teachers who have intercultural teaching skills. it's a long way to go, of course. i do not think the league in italy is very committed to this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the international day of the roma and the fight against anti-gypsyism is a symbolic date, as is the commemoration of the genocide of the roma during the second world war. however, they are symbols that serve to keep european society united and welcoming, where the marginalization of roma is manifested in many ways, from ostracism, if not outright violence, to institutionalized and dangerous racism, encouraged by politicians looking for votes. the truth is that the gypsy culture is not easy to integrate, because it is based on a way of life very different from ours, ancient and unique. it is a culture which has much to offer europe, a culture which places a high value on family ties, a sense of belonging to a community and solidarity. there is still much to be done for full integration beyond the commemoration of the anniversaries. first of all, there must be a real awareness of the institutions.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a development cooperation and partnership agreement with bangladesh, and as the european union we must have the courage to tell our partners when there are problems. and in bangladesh, alas, there are many problems. we want to highlight one of them in today's resolution, and it is a particularly serious one. in bangladesh, the rate of girls getting married before the age of 18 is 52%; child brides under 15 years old are 18 percent of the total. it is clear that in most cases this is not a choice, and for this very reason the united nations considers it a violation of human rights, because it opens the door to dowry abuse, sexual harassment, rape and the legitimization of corruption of minors. we therefore acknowledge the efforts made by bangladesh in recent years to improve the situation, but we want to tell the government that this is not enough and that we must move forward with more determination and conviction. the child marriage restriction act of 2017 and the loopholes in it, which in fact legalize these exceptions must be scrapped and completely rewritten. we want to remind the government that the most precious treasure of a country is always its youth. yes, because we are talking about young people today, ladies and gentlemen, about girls. and it is the duty of a government to protect this treasure, to allow them an education in full respect of their rights and to guarantee them a future and the possibility of being able to choose freely and without any constraints the person with whom they want to spend their lives. in this case we can only do our duty as the european union and tell bangladesh that it is time to make real, concrete steps forward. this law is not enough and cannot be enough.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bangladesh continues to be a hotbed of human rights violations on several fronts: freedom of association, early marriage, arbitrary arrests and abuse by law enforcement. it has been years since the rana plaza tragedy, a tragedy that has captured the attention of the world's public. but still no real change has taken place. it seems clear to us that there has been no real awareness on the part of the government of the need to make the necessary reforms. in fact, it's gone from bad to worse: the minimum wage has not been raised since 2013, while the cost of living has risen significantly, forcing workers, trade unionists and journalists to strike and denounce the unacceptable living conditions they are subjected to. in response, the government has decided to proceed with arrests and repression and, as if that were not enough, has practically legalized child marriage. we must express our disagreement. the european commission must launch an investigation into the violations of the eu's system of generalised preferences by the government of bangladesh and act accordingly.
in writing. for years the european union has been trying to cooperate with bangladesh to put an end to the sad practice of child marriage. the latter are forced by their families to marry and there is no law that specifically prohibits it. the psychological and physical damage is very serious and the eu cannot stand by and watch as the future of millions of children is stolen. the bangladesh government must make child marriage illegal.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are here today to bring to the attention of the european institutions - for the umpteenth time - this phenomenon, which has become a phenomenon, sadly known as 'land of fire', which is in reality an environmental and health emergency in which more than two and a half million european citizens are forced to live in a territory comprising 57 municipalities in the provinces of naples and caserta in southern italy. more than 6 000 sites have been identified in those areas to date - this is actually still a provisional figure, because research is still ongoing - where toxic waste, 10 million tonnes of toxic and hazardous waste, both urban and industrial, has been dumped or illegally burned, thus turning that land into one of the most polluted areas in the entire european union. the epidemiological picture of the population living in those parts shows excess mortality and hospitalization for all diseases which can be traced back to the release or combustion of toxic waste. unfortunately, the mortality rate for all types of cancer is 20% higher than the national average, which is completely contrary to the trends because, while in italy these trends are downward, in the land of fire there is an increase in mortality for all types of cancer. male infertility is 17 percent higher than the national average. it's really scary for children's health, because there's an excess of hospitalizations for all cancers, especially in the first year of life, and there's an excess of cancers, especially of the central nervous system in the age group of 0 to 14 years. nevertheless, the ostracism continues on the part of all those who take advantage of the difficulty of establishing a scientific link between this exposure to industrial poisons and cancer. some people even deny this causal link. and yet there is no family that has not had a tragic experience, a dramatic experience of cancer, of one or more cancers, among their loved ones. in the last 20 days, for example, in the last 20 days alone, eight more children have died of cancer. now the people in that area are afraid to drink the water that comes out of their own taps, they are afraid to eat the vegetables, the vegetables that they grow on their land. and as if that wasn't enough, local economies, agricultural production, has been devastated by the negative publicity, which of course has weakened local economies, which were already weak. we have all received the report from the italian permanent representation, which gives the usual reassuring message, a reassuring message which illustrates the actions taken by both the italian government and the regional government of the campania region, and which seems to be finally aimed at solving this situation once and for all. the point is that for years, for over 20 years, these people have been hearing reassuring messages and things have never changed. to this day, there are still these fires, these fires are still there, and the waste is being burned right now. we are therefore here today to denounce the futility and ineffectiveness of all the solutions adopted by the italian government and the regional government of the campania region, because the complaints of dozens of people in parliamentary committees, for example, or the dozens of press inquiries, the statements of citizens' associations and above all the count of the dead in the cemeteries of those poisoned lands have not helped. commissioner, this is the largest mass poisoning in one of the countries of our european union, and we believe that the european institutions have a duty to intervene. we therefore want to know whether this union intends to give hope to these citizens, who are also european citizens, and whether this union intends to give the right priority to respecting the right to health for european citizens and therefore also for the citizens of tierra del fuego.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, mr pedicini, let me start first of all by saying that the commission has been very deeply concerned for many years about the environmental situation from which the region of campania is suffering due to the illegal treatment and mismanagement of waste, and of course about the impact on public health. the latest public health report issued by the istituto superiore di sanità, which links the abnormally high cancer rate in some parts of campania with the illegal treatment of waste, has been brought to our attention. given the systematic shortcomings in waste management in campania underpinned by organised crime, the commission has made full use of its powers over the past decade to address the situation. already in 2007 the commission initiated infringement procedures against italy for a lack of adequate disposal facilities for waste in campania, and this led in 2010 to italy being condemned by the european court of justice. then again in 2015 the court condemned italy to pay a heavy fine consisting of a lump sum of eur 20 million plus eur 120 000 every day due to insufficient follow-up measures. one year earlier, in 2014, the court of justice had already imposed heavy fines on italy for the existence of illegal disposal of waste, including hazardous waste, throughout practically all the italian territory, including campania. also in 2014, the commission suspended eu financial assistance corresponding to the financial period 2007-2013 in respect of waste management and disposal in campania. we cannot grant eu money if there are no guarantees that it will be spent well. when we received adequate assurances, eu funding was again made available in the current programing period. as regards enforcement by the commission, there was nothing more that we could possibly do according to eu law. now it is fair to say that the overall waste management situation in campania has improved since the waste crisis of 2007 and following the government’s appointment of several waste emergency commissioners for the region. for instance, separate collection of waste in the region is steadily improving, as well as recycling. at the end of last year, campania adopted a new regional waste management plan which is now being examined by the commission services. but challenges remain, and health problems caused by past practices are still making themselves felt. the health and the environmental issues in campania have their roots in the existence of organised crime and an enforcement system which is not coping with it. although the main responsibility for fighting organised crime rests with the member states, the european union has agreed to take action on a number of instruments in the field of enforcement of compliance. to address the eco-mafia, in 2011 europol created a platform for experts from law enforcement agencies, the envicrimenet, dealing with environmental crime. also to improve enforcement, the commission will adopt later this year a communication setting out an action plan with practical actions for environmental compliance assurance. this will be aimed, amongst other issues, at helping member states to combat waste crime and offences. in addition to the enforcement actions, the commission has urged the italian competent authorities to address land decontamination and rehabilitation as a matter of urgency. for the latter, eur 72 million of eu structural funds have been made available under the current financial period, that is under the period 2014-2020. of course the specific health-related aspects are of huge concern and i know that the signatories of this major interpellation, including my colleague pedicini, already met with my colleague commissioner andriukaitis here in strasbourg few weeks ago. as you know, health policy is essentially a national competence but there may be scope for reinforcing dialogue with national authorities. i can assure you that my services will keep monitoring the situation in campania. solving the problems derived from the illegal treatment of waste in campania is dependent on all relevant actors working effectively together.
i have listened very carefully to the commissioner's answer to this serious question concerning campania and the enormous pollution in the area. as i am often critical of the way the commission's representatives are speaking here, i must say that i personally agree with that answer. it must be said openly that, although this is an extremely serious matter, and as my colleagues rightly point out, the lives and health of many hundreds and even thousands of europeans living in the region are being harmed, the primary responsibility for the situation that has arisen and for the solution to this situation must lie with italy as such. because if the situation that has arisen there, and it is clearly stated here, is the result of an illegal situation, is the result of illegal waste management, then it is difficult for the european union to be the main one to solve this. but i am very pleased and this is important here that the commissioner said that the european union is ready to help, it is encouraging and positive for me that it was said that there is money in the structural funds, because i think, as i know the situation from the czech republic, for example, where we have removed environmental burdens and it has cost us hundreds and hundreds of millions of crowns, that without the support of european money, such a large-scale environmental burden can hardly be removed. so if the european commission were to give the regional government money to repair such enormous environmental damage, i would personally, as a member of the european parliament, welcome and support such a situation. but the original thesis must be upheld, that the primary requirement is that italy is willing to ensure that such dumps do not occur in the future, that the perpetrators are punished because it is a serious crime, and that the italian government itself is willing to spend money on remediation. europe can add to that. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr pospíšil, the commissioner has also repeated all the infringement procedures which have been initiated against italy in this area. i ask you: in your view, is the infringement procedure itself, which is a form of tax paid directly by the citizens themselves who are already suffering from health and environmental problems, a working method or not? the same citizens who pay in health care also pay in taxes.
answer the question by raising the blue card. - i'm a lawyer, my friend. if there is a legal reason for a state to be affected by a decision of the european court of justice, then unfortunately it simply must be affected. it's whether or not the law is broken. but i am also making it clear that italy should be given assistance from the structural funds to deal with this environmental burden, because the national budgets are not in principle able to deal with the large environmental burdens.
the commission is therefore proposing that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council and the european parliament. i myself come from that rich and fertile land, which for centuries has been called the "land of work". "terra de los fuegos" summarizes and emphasizes what happened in these areas between the 1990s and the beginning of the new century: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner which is not harmful to the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of controls on the use of pesticides. i denounced it in this house in my first one-minute speech of this legislature. the impact of tierra del fuego has been devastating for the lives and health of tens of thousands of people and for the economy of the whole of campania. since november, there has been a new emergency in terms of mortality, especially among children. the data are similar to the years 2012 and 2013. the toxic fires continue 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. in 32 municipalities in the province of naples, mortality is above the regional average of 10% for men and 13% for women, while in 23 municipalities in the province of caserta, the percentages are 4% and 6%. with its 500 000 hectares of agricultural land, campania, together with apulia and catalonia, is one of the three major european agri-food centres. this is an incalculable economic and image damage, despite the fact that the sites affected by toxic material do not exceed 1% of the total rural areas. i must say, however, that after decades of consultations, during which some of us have repeatedly, sometimes in isolation, called for the mapping of areas at risk, the initiation of a process of remediation of contaminated soils and the establishment of a regional cancer register, we are beginning to see a reversal of the trend. fortunately, the approach to the problem has changed: there's a heightened awareness and a strong determination to address the root of the problem. the campania region has recently adopted a strict procedure for certifying the health of its agri-food production, making it one of the most controlled regions in europe, and has set up a real monitoring plan for the whole campania region, with the aim of carrying out technical surveys for the mapping, including by means of remote sensing, of the region's agricultural land. in february the campania region's paediatric cancer registry was accredited by the italian association of cancer registries and a specific study was started by the institute of zooprophylaxis and the cancer institute of naples on 4 200 subjects from 168 municipalities identified on the basis of three different environmental risk models, in order to exclude interference from low exposure or physiologically related factors related to age. in addition, the first clean-up operations were carried out in the contaminated areas. the operation to remove the eco-balls has been launched, but above all campania has a new waste plan, which will have to bring the region beyond the emergency once and for all. certainly much more needs to be done, to continue to keep the national spotlight, and not just the national spotlight, on this huge problem that continues to claim innocent lives. the institutions, which must prove that they have the capacity to intervene, must do their part by providing clean-up measures in a timely manner, but europe can and must also do its part by accompanying campania in this process. a few months ago, at a conference attended by doctors and scientists from all over europe, i asked some commission officials - and i repeat my request here - to draw up a manual of good practice, from food hygiene to medical and prevention, to give useful guidance to citizens living in all the high environmental impact areas of europe. tierra del fuego, along with the many areas suffering from an environmental emergency, should not be considered or perceived as a problem exclusively italian or campania: this is a european emergency. the problems are many, complex and interrelated, and the synergy between the european institutions and local authorities over the years has been the real key to achieving tangible results. i thank commissioner vella for his usual availability whenever we talk about tierra del fuego and campania and for the involvement he has shown on several occasions. thanks also to the associations and institutions of the campania region, to the thousands of citizens involved in this attempt to save a wonderful land. now it's just a matter of continuing to work hard and together, so that the working earth returns as soon as possible to "campania felix". (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. excuse me, mr. caputo, but you know that the government and the campania region are the same color as your party, right? do you talk to each other? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has been working on this for some time. then, a question about your proposal: she proposes a food hygiene manual. what do you mean, "i'm not"? that we want to remedy the cause of our citizens' illness by teaching them to eat better, rather than saying that pollution is the real cause?
answer to a blue-card question. as usual, you five star movement people always see the glass as half empty. the question is one. first of all, the political question: it is clear that the national government and the regional government are of the same party as mine, and i am proud of that, so much so that the only concrete things that have been achieved have been achieved especially in recent years and the results are tangible. the relationship with the commission has also improved, to the extent that we are now moving towards resolving the problem of infringement. the proposal i made to the group of scientists, which was not essentially my own proposal - a proposal which came from a table, and which i reiterated to the commission - is to accompany all the measures, including those of a health nature, which are being put in place with an information measure. it is also important to overcome the cultural approach which, unfortunately, is somewhat deficient in some areas.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his excellent report, and also for the fact that he has made a number of important recommendations. i think it is essential that parliament and the european commission address this issue, which we can hardly call an emergency now, given the length of time it has been going on. and i would like to reply to those who have said that the member states have exclusive competence in relation to the problems we are discussing, that the right to health is a fundamental right guaranteed in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, just as the precautionary principle should be a guiding principle for the action of the commission, parliament and the council. we are talking about a question of environmental justice that has been denied, and we cannot turn a blind eye to it, we cannot use the member state's exclusive competence as an alibi, although we are the first to want to name the responsibilities of the italian and local governments. we are talking, as was already said in the speeches before me, of an expression, that of 'land of fire', which is becoming commonly used in the 2000s, but in reality the problem we are talking about, that of the illegal dumping of special and toxic waste in the area between the provinces of naples and caserta, dates back to at least the mid-1970s, and investigators such as roberto mancini had already highlighted the problem. i would remind you that part of the development of small and mediumsized industries in northern italy was also built on the tax-free dumping of processing waste in the soils of tierra del fuego, with the mediation of organized crime, which used land-moving companies, quarries and waste transport to organize traffic. the fact that we are still in an emergency is therefore politically and morally unacceptable. i am personally in contact, as are other colleagues here in the chamber, with the committees that are responsible for defending environmental justice in the land of fire, and which emphasize the effectiveness to date of the mapping, monitoring and remediation measures provided for by italian law 6/2014e and implemented by the government and the campania region. there are no operational plans for remediation, no thorough analysis of pollution of the groundwater, and entire areas such as the vesuvius national park are not covered by monitoring. in the molti quarry, for example, in the municipality of maddaloni, there are an estimated 200 000 cubic metres of already characterized chemical waste, but the situation is stable and there is not only no operational treatment plan, but also no safe disposal. there are also no plans for agricultural rehabilitation of contaminated land, with serious economic damage to the population. it is also necessary to concentrate epidemiological and toxicological testing on the people living within the site of national importance and not to extend it to the whole region, with the risk of minimising the impact of the results. the mothers of the committee "victims of tierra del fuego" reported the deaths of 16 children from leukemia in the last four months alone, 80% of whom were residents of tierra del fuego. we find it shameful from this point of view the words of the minister - indeed the minister - of health lorenzin in 2015, who dared to say that the higher mortality rate in campania was due to pollution from vehicles, a poor health system and wrong lifestyles and diet. we are really speechless, because that means ignoring the weight and the gravity of the problem we are talking about. i therefore thank my colleagues once again for submitting this request, which is more than legitimate, considering that the european commission fined italy 22 million last february and that, after the european court of justice's 2015 judgment precisely for the waste emergency in campania and the non-compliance with directives 98/2008 and others on the treatment and recycling of waste, it is still difficult to impose a solution to this problem. it is therefore necessary to make up for what the member state, the italian government, is still doing, precisely because the health of the citizens is at stake and the right to health is a fundamental right. i would just like to add that i do not think it is enough - indeed, i think it is profoundly wrong - to turn a problem of economic and social order, of environmental justice of national scope, into a problem of public order, into a problem simply of repression and waste management. the militarization of many of these sites has simply too often prevented committees, activists, experts from being able to properly oversee the polluted sites. i think that the solutions must be fundamental, they must be long-term solutions, but they must also be immediate solutions because we are talking about deaths, we are talking about economic damage, we are talking about social damage that persists in an area where female unemployment and youth unemployment are already at very high levels. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's environmental policy is not only a matter of the environment, but also of the environment.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the land of fire is one of the most dramatic situations in my country, but also in the whole of europe. we are talking about real mass poisonings with public participation. yes, because they both have one thing in common: the state. in tierra del fuego from 1991 to 2013, there were 80 investigations for illegal trafficking of toxic waste, 2,000 complaints, 500 companies involved, 95 defendants for various reasons, including environmental disaster and multiple manslaughter. of course, prescription for all of us. between caserta and naples, cancer deaths far exceed any national and foreign average. the state has known about this for years. already at the end of 2013, with a decree to deal with environmental and industrial emergencies, had established the need to do health screenings to be sure of the correlation between deaths and earth fires as if there was a need screening but then stopped, because the resources were halved. but the government, in its so-called "empty prisons" policy, has effectively nullified this decree and made the sentence for those who apply actual death sentences random. the government thus demonstrates that it has ignored the fact that the right to the environment is a constituent element of the right to health, which the constitution protects as a primary right with its article 32, thus repeatedly being slow to comply with both community and constitutional obligations, despite the numerous warnings of the european court of justice. and the citizens are paying, not just with the 120 000 euro a day of the european fine, but with what is most important to them: their lives and the lives of their children. the government must provide a different perspective to the inhabitants of the contaminated areas, turning the criticality into an opportunity. but here's the deal. the european commission should promote: one: the creation of international research centres, perhaps based in southern italy, which would deal with both new reclamation technologies and the decision-making process to identify them; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. secondly, because in italy and in europe many sites are abandoned and polluted without the responsible being identified and remediated, we call for the establishment of a european fund funded by the polluting industries, like the epa superfund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important debate we are having here today, and i thank mr pedicini and others for having urged this reflection. but let us not waste this opportunity and let us try to make a reflection together with commissioner vella which will enable us to take a few steps forward in relation to a matter of which we know all the details. there is nothing we do not know about what has happened in the last 25, 30, 35 years in that land of ours. we know the original accumulation of organized crime, which made trade with the northern companies the beginning, in the 1970s and 1980s, of what later became the land of fire. we also know the responsibilities of many of the productive forces in that area, which have continued to use those areas for abusive dumping. we know the painful responsibilities of politics, starting with my own political side. but if we continue to do nothing but harm ourselves, to polemicise, and do not try to seize the opportunities which the national, regional, local and european institutions afford us from time to time to reopen this dossier and to make of these opportunities opportunities opportunities to take a step forward precisely to meet the needs we have before us, first of all the health, sanitary needs we have in that territory, and also to revive the productive and civil image of the area, then we are wasting our time. we may gain some personal consensus, but we don't make any progress. we have a knowledge of reality like never before. we know where the polluting sites are, or at least most of them: we've been tracking them, finally got a map. we have a health report. then we can discuss the methodologies, and there's also a further update, but we know that the problem is there and that it affects our children first and foremost. and we have a counteraction in progress. if i just mention the things that have been done in the last months of 2016 to counter what is happening now in that territory, from the arrests, the controls, the fines that have been made, to the attempt to stop yet another abusive spill into those areas, we realize that an action is underway, an initiative. we finally have a waste collection and disposal plan. i know they've been discussing it with you for weeks. and for the first time, i say to my colleague d'amato, we have a lot of resources at our disposal. this has never happened before. we have national resources, we have european resources. and so we have to try to create the conditions so that this time, really, this opportunity is not a missed opportunity. we must not come back to this house in the coming months to complain about defeat, because having the knowledge, having the tools and also having the resources at our disposal, we then come back to complain about the lack of action. then all you can do is: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to propose three simple things. in agreement with the other members, we come back here every six months - perhaps we use the committee on the environment - and we take stock of the situation every six months. because this issue must be addressed, it cannot become the subject of political campaigning every time. every six months, to identify liabilities and things that haven't been done. i would like to invite commissioner vella to come to campania to meet the authorities and to take stock of the start-up of the sanitation programme. to make a real point, of the real state of things. and we will see what we can do together, because on this point i agree with all the colleagues who have said: we cannot have a europe that just fines and then stops. finally, i agree with mrs d'amato's proposal: we work for a research center. we have three major cleaning centres in the south of italy: tarentum, croton and the land of fire. it is important to have scientific investment in the mezzogiorno, because it can help this enormous programme we have to carry out to improve our territories, and it can also be a winning choice on the ground for a stronger relationship between science, innovation and environmentally friendly development. i think this is a way of dealing with and trying to give a positive answer to a huge challenge that we have before us, and it would be very dramatic if in the next few months we came back here to discuss it as if nothing had happened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the commissioner and his colleagues: mr pedicini, the colleagues who, by their question, are giving us this important opportunity to discuss here today this serious, long-standing, serious question of the land of fire. it is a well-known matter, ladies and gentlemen, you have said so, but it is not any less serious, it is no less painful. as you have already said, and as i want to remind you, this issue has the face of hundreds and hundreds of people, women and children, who have been made ill over these long years by the dumping of waste, which has been carried out illegally by the camorrista clans, of course, but also by a certain underground economy, which we should also discuss. it is a serious and painful issue, as i said, because there is a clear and recognized correlation between illegal waste dumping and these cancer diseases: i will not quote all the scientific literature that reminds us of this correlation here. we all have argued this, you have said this before me. so i will just quote it. i said that this is a known issue because - colleagues, president, commissioner - we have been discussing this issue for 20 years now. the "adelphi" operation, which for the first time ascertained the role of the bidognetti clan through gaetano cerci, through the controversial, very dangerous figure of cipriano chianese, is from 1991. in 1995, during the debate on the avolio +19 criminal case, the repentant schiavone was heard for the first time, who indicated, in that debate, the places you will remember it where the waste that he said was radioactive was to be buried. then there was an action, after those statements, as a consequence of those statements, there was an initiative of criminalpol of rome on behalf of the neapolitan prosecutor, who initiated a series of inspections, a series of searches in the sites indicated by schiavone. but the radioactive waste was never found, it was never identified, as federico cafiero de raho, who was then, i would remind you, the head of the dda in naples, has repeatedly said. 20 years, then. a lot has been said in these 20 years, and perhaps not all of it by the way: we have heard many things, but we have seen some kind of short circuit, and at one point i remembered the case of radioactive waste that had never been identified. a pernicious short circuit, which at one point seemed to pursue more a demand for sensationalism at all costs than the real, accurate, dutiful reconstruction of the facts. and in some cases, colleagues, we have even reached the paroxysm - i want to remember this - of the camorrists who have repented and accused the magistrates of lying. that happened too. and so, ladies and gentlemen, we must insist that this debate be really useful, that it be constructive, while respecting the facts, and accurately, precisely and conscientiously reconstructing the truth. and the truth forces us to say that the matter is very serious and very serious, the biggest massacre of innocent victims that has ever occurred in that area of the country, certainly. but we cannot help saying that there has been a great deal of progress, in other words we must recognize that finally, after years of guilty silence, after years of inability to act, the italian government, the local authorities, i like to say 'the italian state' are working well, also in collaboration with the european commission. i want to remember the important things. law 68 of 2015, which introduced a new section in the penal code dedicated to environmental crimes, is working, it is working because the data processed by the ecomafia commission tells us that it works. we can also see that the area is being monitored and that serious work is being done to clean up the most sensitive areas. in short, much is being done and much must be done, as we are doing, leaving behind these 20 years of incapacity and silence and continuing on the path we have taken and which i believe will finally lead us to the solution of this very serious problem for italy and for europe.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 6 april 2017.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is an initiative to encourage young women to pursue careers in the ever-expanding fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. in europe, only 29 women out of every 1 000 graduates have a science degree, compared with 95 out of every 1 000 men, and unfortunately only 4 of these women actually have a job in this field. overall, women occupy only 24% of jobs in science and technology and tend to be concentrated in administrative roles. the gender gap then tends to increase as the hierarchy climbs. the gender gap in technology also extends to the simple access to an internet connection and a mobile phone. the female population with access to the internet is 12% lower than the male population, and this percentage has unfortunately increased in recent years. i hope that tomorrow's day will serve as a springboard and inspiration to work together to ensure a better future for young people everywhere. we must embrace one of the un's sustainable development goals, the fifth, which aims to achieve gender equality also through information and communication technologies. this requires working to make our education systems inclusive and efficient, and to encourage young people and businesses to remove gender barriers and to value the contribution of women workers. good work to the meeting participants!
i am also pleased to welcome a delegation of members of parliament from sri lanka and myanmar who are on a working visit to the european parliament to study our control procedures and in particular those on budgetary control. we are honored by your presence and wish you good work!
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 6 april 2017, was distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda: wednesday: the order of the second and third points is reversed so that the commission statement on the decision adopted on the european pillar of social rights and the initiative on work-life balance would be the second point after the commission statement on the situation in hungary. the agenda is thus altered.
i would like to propose that, after the debate on hungary, a resolution be tabled in may.
i was just announcing your request, mr. pittella. as mr pittella has said, the s&d group has asked that the debate on the commission's statement on the situation in hungary be concluded with a resolution to be voted on at the may part-session. i now give the floor to mr pittella to formally present the request. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i have received a request from mr pittella and the socialist and democratic group that after the debate we should have a resolution to be voted on in may. no request was made to organise any mission. (parliament adopted the request of the s&d group)
the house is sovereign. i put to the vote the request by the europe of nations and freedoms group, made by mr obermayr, that after the debate on turkey, a debate on a statement by the high representative on the situation of the copts in egypt be added to the agenda of this part-session. (parliament rejected the request)
i propose the following solution. since it is the conference of presidents which will decide on the agenda for may i, i believe that mr preda's request, supported by the socialist group through mr boştinaru, is in fact included in the debate of the conference of presidents. i think it is useless to vote now because the conference of presidents will decide later. i think there is a large majority in favour of discussing the issue of persecution of christians in the world in general on 1 may. i will undertake, at the request of mr preda, to stress tomorrow in my meeting with the grand mufti how important tolerance is to the european parliament and how important interreligious dialogue and coexistence between different religions are, as in egypt where the majority are muslims but there are about 10 million christians. so the protection of minorities is also important to us, as we do in europe. i will give this message directly to the grand mufti, who i will meet here at the seat of the european parliament. the conference of presidents will then have to ratify the decision which i believe is in the air. thursdays: i would also like to inform you that the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted the report by mr lebreton on a request for waiver of immunity (a8-0163/2017). in accordance with rule 9 (8) of parliament's rules of procedure, this report will be voted on during the vote on thursday. the european united left/nordic green left group has tabled, in accordance with rule 105 (3) of parliament's rules of procedure, a proposal to oppose the commission delegated regulation amending annex ii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the application of a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. this report will be put to the vote on thursday. the agenda is approved with these amendments.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the situation in hungary.
in view of the number of speakers and the sensitivity of the debate, and also because i would like to give the 'catch-the-eye', i shall not be allowing 'carton bleu' questions during the debate.
i would like to thank mr frans timmermans for his clear and firm words and for the intentions he has expressed on behalf of the european commission. the european commission must go all the way, without excluding any instrument and, if the conditions are right, also the instrument of article 7 of the treaty. president orban, you are lying knowing that you are lying, because you know very well that the european parliament is not defending the interests of a big american financier, but is defending the legitimate expectations of young hungarian students who do not want to be deprived of a great, beautiful and excellent university. we are not only defending the central european university, but all universities, we are defending science, research, education, culture, everything that is the basis of democracy. and it's not just about the university. we have no prejudice against him or any other person who does not share his political colour. we are used to dialogue and we are used to having respect for our opponents, whom we never consider enemies. but we don't have ham on our eyes. we cannot ignore what is happening in hungary on the issue of media pluralism. we cannot ignore what is happening in terms of the agility of ngos. we cannot ignore, mr president orban, that you have refused to implement a plan for the resettlement of refugees, not the one million requested by soros, we are not interested in what soros is asking for! we are interested in what the european commission, the european council and the european parliament have asked for: 1 100, 1 000 and a little more refugees! on what grounds have you denied the possibility of people fleeing war, terrorism and violence to enter hungary? as if hungary were a country excluded from the european union. it is right to be and we are very happy because we love the hungarian people. it is right that when you are in a family you share the benefits and the burdens and the burdens of being together. then there is the political issue, and i turn to mr weber, who has reaffirmed the link between president orban and the group of the european people's party. i have heard positive voices from my fellow citizens who are concerned about democracy and freedom. but i ask myself and my colleague mr weber whether it is still possible to envisage orban's continuing to be part of the family which was that of de gasperi, which was that of kohl, which was that of personalities who built european democracy, who have always defended freedom, democracy and pluralism. i think that president orban's presence should be dissociated from the christian-democratic family immediately. finally, mr president, stop playing the game of going to budapest and saying that it is all our fault, that we are the bad and the ugly who impose certain choices, that we are the bad and the ugly who impose. we are not the ones who want to close universities, we are not the ones who want to bankrupt ngos, we are not the ones who want to close the media, we are not the ones who want to reject refugees! you should examine yourself and tell your people the truth!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the 500 million europeans are governed by puppets and marionettes. while terrorists are shedding blood in europe, we are concerned about bringing hungary to trial - mr orban, hold on - we are concerned about the rights of the roma, the fake refugees, the billions of soros and not about a legitimately elected government. hungary - i say this to the italians who follow me and to the europeans - has a single tax of 16%. in hungary, companies pay 9%, unemployment has fallen to 4%, youth unemployment is 11%, retirement age is 62, and the hungarian people and government have had the strength to defend and control their currency, their central bank and their borders. what are we gonna do? we're sending them tanks like we did in 1956? we use sanctions instead of missiles? i remember that some europeans today who support europe and support macron, for example giorgio napolitano, former president of the italian republic, when soviet tanks invaded hungary, proud then as now, spoke of the hungarians as fascists and thugs and called for the intervention of soviet tanks to safeguard world peace. i feel like nothing has changed in 60 years. instead of tanks used banks, finance and an invasion of fake immigrants, refugees, financed by unscrupulous speculators like soros, who may also finance someone who is sitting in this parliament or someone who is sitting in this commission. instead of suing hungary and poland, you should be defending the 20 million unemployed europeans and defending our borders, commissioner. you, who are part of the party of a gentleman who said that southern europe spends money on alcohol and women, should be ashamed to set foot in here, should have respect for the prime minister legitimately elected by the hungarian people and you should all avoid being macron supporters and respect the free vote of the french people. so, mr orban, on behalf of the lega nord, on behalf of millions of italians, thank you for what you are doing, thank you for what you will do, thank you for resisting the dictates of the european union. long live the freedom! long live hungary!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, it is significant that on the 60th anniversary of the treaties and the 30th anniversary of erasmus, the commission has finally accepted our request to take this initiative as a first step towards initiating infringement proceedings against hungary, considering that article 2 of the treaty on the state of freedom and equality, but also articles 13 and 14 of the charter of fundamental rights on academic freedom and the right to education have been violated. after the petition launched by thousands of students, teachers and citizens, hungarian and not only hungarian but also european and international, we met yesterday with rector ignatieff, who confirmed to us that the law in fact endangers the existence of foreign universities, including in particular the prestigious ceu, which has been part of the hungarian academic system for 25 years, has independent and international elective bodies, in fact, the law sets key conditions that will block the activity of the ceu and will no longer make enrollment possible. but this is only the latest in a series of human rights violations, including the refusal to accept asylum seekers, the erection of the wall, the progressive control of media freedom, the limitation of the work of ngos and the unacceptable 'stop brussels' campaign. i hope that commissioner navracsics, who is responsible for education and culture, will also defend these principles.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. in hungary, after the media's gagging, the walls, the barbed wire and the detention camps for refugees and migrants, we have another attack on fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and research, with the closure of the central european university in budapest, one of europe's most prestigious university institutions. it is unacceptable that hungary, like the other countries of the so-called visegrad quartet, refuses to respect the quotas of refugees and asylum seekers set by the eu while other member states, such as italy, generously continue to rescue men, women and children in the mediterranean. the decision of the european commission announced by vice-president timmerman to take drastic measures against hungary is a good one. i listened carefully to president orban's speech and i must say that it has only increased my regret for a country with great cultural and european traditions which continues to have difficulty in interpreting the fundamental values of europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for those useful comments, this rich debate, the support of so many of you for the proclamation of the european pillar of social rights, and for the support also for a broad approach to social policy. let me first address some of the key issues in this discussion. the pillar we launched today is just the start of a process. it is indeed a pillar of 20 principles and values and rights. it is something that we will use from day one as a reference framework to screen the employment and social policy in member states and at european level, and a guidance, a compass, to guide us to more convergence, to upward convergence, towards better employment and social conditions – also working conditions – for our citizens, and it is indeed more than words, words, words. that is the reason why we immediately proposed and launched today some concrete deliverable proposals for legislation or concrete starting first—phase consultations with the social partners. regarding the request of the european parliament for legislation, and also for a framework directive on decent working conditions, we agree that it is important to ensure that all forms of employment enjoy a minimum set of rights and protection. this is perhaps the main outcome from our public consultation: to adapt the social acquis to the new world of work. i want to reassure you that this objective is addressed in the two partner consultations we are launching: the one on the written statement directive, and the other one on access to social protection. if social partners cannot agree – you never know – then the commission stands ready to table proposals. you have seen now, with the proposal on the work-life balance, that we have the courage and we have the determination to do so. it is important to recognise that the commission cannot legislate on everything. in fact, the guiding principle of this commission has been that we do not legislate for the sake of it. for example, we are not reopening the working time directive: we are issuing guidance to improve its implementation. indeed, we will proceed on a two-prong approach. on the one hand, we will step up our monitoring of the existing acquis, and on the other hand, we will enhance guidance to help member states to help enterprises to implement it. on the work-live balance (i will be short on this because time is running), you will see that we go beyond maternity and beyond childcare. i see in this house that there are different opinions. we have put an ambitious proposal on the table, and i hope for quick and constructive consideration by the co—legislators so that we can soon have a good directive. we are in the midst of an economic and social transition. the social fallout from the crisis remains present, and the resulting political pressure at all political levels is massive. above all, this demands a clear and a commonly shared idea of what the european union can and cannot do in this field. there is an economic, social and political urgency to make the european pillar of social rights a success. first, the economic arguments: we need a modern labour market, we need social protection, and we need education systems to drive upward convergence, and we need to get more and better qualified people into the labour force. this is the way to build resilience, and this is the way to make our economies competitive and our welfare systems sustainable in the longer term. second, there are the social arguments. the labour market is a vehicle for inclusion, to improve people’s life chances and to help them to fulfil their potential. the best way to make people feel valued is through a high—quality job. we need to make sure that everyone can participate, and that no one is left behind. third, there is the political imperative of tackling inequalities. our political resilience – our resilience too – depends on restoring a sense of fairness, of opportunity, and of empowerment. i therefore count on your support to make the european pillar of social rights a reality. on the reflection paper, the debate on the future of europe, it is open. president juncker launched the white paper on this debate, and we are now feeding the debate with concrete reflection documents. the first one, not par hasard, is on social policy. we will have others on the deepening of the economic and monetary union, on defence, on globalisation and on the financing of the european union. so the debate is open and we will deliver more reflection papers to feed the debate – and of course we hope, thomas mann, that as many people as possible participate in this important debate, and in the one on the future of europe. thank you very much, and let us continue to work together.
in writing. following the commitments made by the leaders of 27 member states in rome last march, the european institutions are taking the first step towards the establishment of a 'social europe'. this transition is represented by the interinstitutional declaration on the european pillar of social rights. the document sets out principles and rights that are essential for the labour market and welfare in the 21st century, which we believe should be more attentive to the needs of those 'excluded' by globalisation. the pillar states that there should be equal opportunities for all in the union for work, study and learning, that gender equality and ethnic religious differences should always be respected and that adequate support for employment, especially for young people, should be ensured. there is still a lot to be done, but this declaration is the first concrete step towards giving citizens the answers they have been waiting for.
the agenda includes the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in turkey, with particular reference to the constitutional referendum. today's debate is of particular importance. i would like to remind you that the european union does not want to close the door on the turkish people, who remain a friendly people with whom we are constantly seeking dialogue and openness. at the same time, we cannot turn a blind eye to actions which go against the values which are at the basis of the european construction. freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the separation of powers are fundamental rights for those who want to join the union, just as the death penalty is an unbridgeable red line. i would also like to remind president erdogan that europe is not an islamophobic continent. there are millions of muslim citizens in europe who are free to practise their faith without any discrimination. as enshrined in article 17 of the treaty, the european parliament, together with the other institutions, actively promotes interreligious dialogue, as evidenced by the many initiatives in which prominent members of the muslim community have played a leading role. tomorrow i shall meet in this house the grand mufti of egypt, the highest islamic religious authority in his country. i hope that turkey too will develop such a strong and convincing dialogue between different religions and i hope that istanbul will remain the city of the two thousand mosques, the two hundred churches and the twenty synagogues.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a victory of 51%, with two and a half million cards contested and many validated even without a stamp. a legal frankenstein with an abnormal concentration of executive power in the hands of the president, who can remove ministers at will, be party leader, declare a state of emergency, and dissolve parliament at his discretion, without counterbalance. through censorship, purges and abuses, erdogan has realized his dream in the closet, to become the de facto sultan of turkey, mocking our recommendations and tearing his country in two. never before has it been so obvious that the door we had held open up to now has been violently slammed in our faces. erdogan smiles at the thought that the weak and cowardly europe, which signed the illegal migration deal at the price of 6 billion, will close its eyes this time too. will the first death sentences also be necessary, or will you finally have the courage to block the application and pre-accession funds and send real support to turkish civil society, perhaps using the leverage of the customs union? membership of nato is not enough and does not justify it. the time for small talk is over.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate, for your individual contributions and listening to the very strong, clear and converging points made here in this house today. i am afraid we all concur on one thing: that turkey is currently moving further away from the european union, and not closer. that is the reality we have to face. that is ultimately turkey’s choice. first, it is crucial to help strengthen turkey’s democracy and the rule of law, to which turkey must urgently re-commit. turkey could use the council of europe’s decision to reintroduce human rights monitoring as guidance to this end. we wish to help turkey by remaining engaged with it, by keeping channels open. we must continue to promote the values on which our union is based, and help those who stand up for them. concretely, we already do this on a multitude of levels; ranging from high-level political dialogues to our aid to a stronger and independent judiciary, or protection of human rights defenders. we must continue our principled engagement with turkey and continue doing our part to support the positive currents in turkish civil society. second, in the long term, we need to see how we can further build our multifaceted relations and use opportunities together. i take today’s debate as a strong signal from this house that business as usual is not an option at all, but that we must equally not fall into the trap of artificial debates or rash actions either. yes, turkey is very important to us, with common interests ranging from geopolitics right down to the many human links. but turkey needs the eu much, much more – politically, economically and, may i say, security-wise. i therefore want us to keep a cool head and together devise a more rational strategy, a format or ‘package’ if you will, that enables us to work with turkey on the many areas of mutual interest and gives us real leverage to boost democracy, fundamental rights and reforms. again, we must move away from the status quo, which is only frustrating for both sides. together, across the european union, we must send a clear signal that the european union is committed to continuing an open and constructive dialogue with a democratic, inclusive and stable turkey, but that we will equally not budge from our red lines. the aim must be to find a future-oriented functioning set-up together, and finally, in close cooperation with turkey.
in writing. on 16 april, the turkish people, after a very long electoral campaign, gave their opinion on the constitutional referendum. the result, however, highlighted a deep rift in society. the european union is now at a crossroads. the continuation of eu accession talks has become a matter of political bargaining. the eu must move towards an association agreement aimed at improving existing relations and allowing for the intensification of political, economic and security cooperation. it takes courage and vision: this is what we are asking the council and the high representative for the union's foreign policy to do today.
in writing. the result of the referendum in turkey served to legitimize an authoritarian turn that erdogan has made step by step, implementing a systematic repression of opponents of his government inside and outside parliament, in the military apparatus, against the independent press and the judiciary. the same vote that legitimized the excessive powers of the president, which were in fact acquired improperly, especially following the attempted coup d'état last july, has brought about a victory which cannot be called a triumph, but which is rather overshadowed by well-founded objections and the split in half of the turkish people. the direction taken by turkey, which is contrary to the founding values of the european union, should exhaust all justification for the talk of its accession to the eu and the disbursement of european funds from which it benefits, except that the eu itself is suffering the blackmailing effects of the delegation of control of migration flows granted to turkey. there is no longer any room for the ambiguities of a europe which always invokes fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy, but which, when it suits it, funds authoritarian regimes which represent the negation of all this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support this proposal, even though we see all the risks involved, firstly because it is the states that will be asking for the use of these resources, but above all because we are aiming to improve the reform policy in the context of the european semester, that of structural reforms at economic and social level, more inspired by cohesion policy, to reduce the distances in the territories, in the states and above all between the various social components. this is the first choice we are making, also to improve the capacity and the recovery of public investment that we so badly need in europe. finally, we also need to reform public administration, the state and the use of human resources, and we must reform a large part of the administrative machinery so that it can face the decisive challenges of the coming months and years and resume the path of development, growth and employment.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are 23 million poor people in europe, there are entire territories abandoned because of the emergency of mass immigration, and what are you doing? instead of strengthening cohesion policy, instead of strengthening the social pillar, perhaps by investing in citizens' income, what do you do? what will you do with 142 million euros from cohesion policy? to fund studies and consulting for your structural reforms. that's not what we need. your structural policies, with your structural reforms, are what have reduced greece, portugal, cyprus and italy to poverty, increasing unemployment and social inequalities. instead, you must take your hands off cohesion policy - we do not need studies and consultations for your reforms - and you must get out of the palaces, get out of the ivory towers in which you have locked yourselves and listen to the citizens. they will tell you what the real reforms that europe needs are.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr krehl and mr van nistelrooij for the painstaking work they have done, which, i would say, has enabled us to improve the text we originally proposed. i believe that parliament has done a valuable job in giving greater prominence to the social and solidarity aspects, in strengthening the role of local and regional authorities, which are key players in the success of any kind of reform. this structural reform support programme can be an important opportunity to help the institutions of the member states to be more efficient and effective, but it must be shared with the national authorities and the territories. so a voluntary programme, launched at the request of the member states, which is a real aid and not a control instrument which would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. we do not want to see a mini-troika of structural reforms. i believe that this programme can have a positive effect if it is used properly, and i am satisfied with the work done by my colleagues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to reduce the gap between the levels of development of the various regions, between the south and the north of europe, through structural reforms which, by their very nature, require a chain of different knowledge and skills, cooperation at different levels and above all a long-term vision. it is precisely in order to have a long-term vision of the future of europe that the mediterranean regions must be placed at the centre of the reform support programmes, because it is there that the greatest difficulties are concentrated and where the most effective action is needed. the indications in the common strategic framework, together with the partnership possibilities and emergency appropriations, are certainly going in the right direction, but the experience of recent years teaches us that reforms have long impact times, times that some areas of europe can no longer afford to wait for. the union's efforts must be focused on the regions of the south, on employment, on digital and on infrastructure. the only way to create a united europe is to give equal opportunities to all citizens.
in writing. the programme is presented as a framework and complement to cohesion policy, but in fact it aims to intervene in the internal state structure, giving the interventions (the famous structural reforms) a markedly liberalistic accent. the administrative performance - for which funds have already been allocated to improve the structures so that they can draw on european funds - is in fact matched by support for structural reforms in the fields of the labour market, social security, liberalisation and privatisation of services, and education and training. the measures implemented in this direction in portugal, cyprus and greece have already shown that the effects are not positive at all and have, on the contrary, led to an increase in inequality, unemployment and the overall level of poverty of the population.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me first thank you for your overwhelming support for the european year of cultural heritage which, without the european parliament, we would not have had this year. special thanks go to the rapporteur mr mircea diaconu, and to ms silvia costa, for leading parliament’s negotiating team. tomorrow, with the vote on the decision to establish the year, we will take a big step towards bringing europe’s heritage closer to citizens. the year is a perfect opportunity to put europe’s cultural richness in the spotlight. i am confident that this initiative will help us lead an open dialogue on the shared values that connect us and make us stronger. what is especially important to me is that we use this unique opportunity to reach out to people from all backgrounds, way beyond those who are already interested in and familiar with cultural heritage. in particular, i want to reach out to young people. cultural heritage is not just about the past. it has a vital role in building the future. young people therefore have to be at the heart of the year. we will bring this initiative to life through real collaborative work at all levels, from the european, through national, regional and, crucially, local levels. at the national level, national coordinators designated by each member state will lead the implementation. they had their first meeting just this week on tuesday. the list of events and activities they are planning is impressive. i am pleased to say that the european parliament sent two observers to this meeting so you are fully on board and will remain so throughout 2017 and 2018. i will make sure this is the case. we will also implement the year in close dialogue with key civil society organisations which will help us with the expertise and outreach. at the european level we will, for example, launch a specific call for proposals under the creative europe programme at the end of this year to fund transnational cooperation projects in the field of cultural heritage dedicated to the year’s objectives; devote resources to organising around 10 flagship initiatives at european level; develop synergies with existing creative europe initiatives devoted to cultural heritage, in particular the european heritage days, the eu prize for cultural heritage, and the european heritage label; join forces with other commission departments which also fund cultural heritage, so that they support the year on top of its dedicated budget and run a communication campaign to give high visibility to our actions. i am particularly pleased that we will be able to give more attention to our flagship initiatives thanks to the extra resources. for example, a project with schools will bring children and young people into contact with cultural heritage, encouraging them to appreciate its relevance and fostering a sense of belonging to a common european space and together with unesco, we will promote the european sites awarded the unesco label of world heritage. as actions on cultural heritage receive significant funding from several eu programmes, we estimate that at least a further eur 100 million will be used to support the objectives of the year in addition to initiatives on budget. these funds will come from the cohesion funds, from horizon 2020 for research projects on cultural heritage, and from other eu programmes supporting the environment, culture, tourism, citizenship and external relations. honourable members, the european year of cultural heritage 2018 is a great opportunity to tap into the full potential of cultural heritage. one single year is, of course, not enough to achieve this aim, but it is a good start to pave the way for a long-lasting heritage policy that makes a difference for citizens and helps us build the europe of the future. i look forward to working with you, with member states, and of course with our partners from the heritage sector to make this year a success.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, rapporteur, i am very happy that the european year of cultural heritage is finally coming to life, for which i have also personally campaigned first as chair of the committee on culture and then with my colleague, rapporteur diaconu, and with many colleagues, both shadow and our committee on culture, also in line with the conclusions of parliament's 2014 report and then with the conclusions of the italian presidency, also in december 2014. i am very grateful to the commission and the maltese presidency for their cooperation. we have fought in the interests of the european citizens, so that through the knowledge and the enhancement of cultural heritage - which, i remember, is intangible and digital - the reasons for common values and the concrete possibility of creating bridges and not walls can be found. but if the richness of europe's cultural diversity is to become an opportunity for dialogue and peace, the involvement of the member states, the regions, the municipalities and above all the citizens, and especially the younger generation, is essential, as has been said, to build a future of intercultural dialogue and peace. i think that the opening of the house of european history on 4 may is also timely. as you remember, yesterday parliament, with two of its members, participated for the first time in the coordination of the european year together with the national coordinators of the member states. we are focused on one message, namely the enhancement of the european and transversal dimension of cultural heritage, both through collaboration between the different directorates-general of the commission and with governance between european institutions, member states and stakeholders to promote cross-border projects alongside the flag initiatives of the commission and the member states and the active participation of civil society. the result in terms of resources is also significant. we have doubled the amount from 4 to 8 million, of which only half, fortunately, is coming from the creative europe budget, which has been increased this year, while the other 4 million come from other budget headings. i remember that other programs will participate with calls dedicated to this year. i would like to conclude by saying that i also agree with the commission's dg culture's choice of four lines of action: involvement, promotion, protection and innovation. this will finally give a framework for what must finally become a real european cultural heritage policy beyond 2018.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cultural heritage is a very valuable and important com mon good. that is why i believe it should be preserved and valued as much as we can. but i cannot say that i am satisfied with this agreement, because in the end the agreement that has been reached is reduced to a european media spot. this was also confirmed to me by a reply to a written question to the european commission. but there's nothing concrete. what do i mean by concrete? for example, the possibility of recovering cultural property that has been damaged by natural disasters. well, i'm really sorry about that. moreover, eight million euros is too much if we are only communicating and too little if we are going to do something concrete. however, we are helping, with creative europe which continues to be underfunded, those who want to do business through culture and creativity. i'll close by saying that i decided to study archaeology when i was eight, the first time i went to pompeii, and so i don't think i'm a person who doesn't want to deal with cultural heritage, but, i'm sorry, this is a deal at the bottom and i can't support it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european year of cultural heritage is an important achievement of the european parliament and, i think i should say, particularly of the committee on culture. thanks to the tenacity and determination of mr diaconu and his shadow colleagues in the delegation led by mrs costa, we have succeeded in making this important initiative for the citizens of the union a reality. the idea of a year devoted to the enhancement of europe's tangible and intangible cultural heritage was born two years ago with the report entitled 'towards an integrated approach to cultural heritage for europe', in which parliament underlined the importance of europe's tangible and intangible cultural heritage as a key factor in the preservation of european culture and history and the safeguarding of the values linked to european identity. a year of cultural heritage, therefore, as a shared resource involving collective responsibilities, a factor capable of strengthening the sense of common european belonging, particularly at this delicate moment in history, when too many citizens seem to have lost the sense, the pride and the very reason for their being together in our common project. the promotion of recognised sites that have been awarded the european cultural heritage label must therefore become a political priority in order to support our european awareness, our sense of belonging to a common cultural space, to the european dimension, the fruit of a complex and multi-secular history, and to reinforce the ideals and values that have led to european integration. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe. it is therefore appropriate to involve civil society, in particular youth associations, in the organisation of this event, in addition to the institutions of the member states, and, for the first time, also the representatives of this parliament, even if only as observers, in order to promote the constructive and virtuous interplay between institutions and citizens.
in writing. for us europeans, cultural heritage plays a fundamental role in the cohesion and development of our communities, especially at such a sensitive historical stage of increasing cultural complexity and diversity. this is even more true for those areas of our continent which are affected by social and employment crises or are subject to emergencies and natural disasters, for which the presence of a cultural and landscape heritage offers not only an opportunity for economic recovery but often represents a unique opportunity for productive reinvention and collective revival. i find it particularly significant that the eu has chosen to dedicate 2018 to cultural heritage. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a leading role in the world. it is hoped that this important debate will provide the basis for consistent policies and new concrete measures to safeguard and enhance the many scenic and cultural beauties of which we are the holders, particularly in the areas of greatest crisis in our europe.
in writing. the limited funds made available make the year of cultural heritage a little more than a symbolic event. however, symbols and actions are important. in this sense, i will work to ensure that due attention is also paid to cultural heritage destroyed by natural disasters in the meetings planned by the commission to decide on the organisation of events to be held in 2018. the cultural heritage that surrounds us throughout europe is an immense privilege, but also a source of duties. to paraphrase a native american saying, we inherited it from our parents and we borrow it for our children to whom we must return it. in italy, cultural heritage is invaluable, but it is in danger of being transformed from a common good of the people, of all the peoples, into a source of enrichment for a few, thanks to cuts imposed on culture and to ideologies of privatization. the remedy is the involvement of citizens, especially young people. i hope, therefore, that 2018 will be the next step on this path.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the report we are voting on tomorrow, this parliament stresses the need for the outermost regions to renew and modernise their fleets, particularly with a view to increasing safety. in these regions, for example, there is an objective impossibility for some fishermen to access credit and insurance for their vessels. it is therefore necessary to provide for measures authorising public, national and european subsidies for the renewal of the small-scale fishing fleet in the outermost regions, within the limits of the permitted fishing capacity, with a view to increasing not only the safety of vessels but also environmental efficiency and the fight against illegal fishing. the same applies to modernisation. support should be provided, in the context of a potential future cfp, to instruments that enable the mitigation of climate impacts with a proven negative impact on vessels. all instruments that will be suggested in the future should ensure sustainable fisheries and healthy fish stocks. it is essential to make every effort to ensure that the fishing sectors in the outermost regions are not disadvantaged.
mr president, i want to support this report, i consider it extremely important. the european union is the guardian of human rights, not only within the european union but also in third countries, and the working conditions of workers in third countries in the textile industry are often so appalling that we have to be concerned. we often debate in the plenary about where political rights are being violated, in which countries, where the right to freedom of expression, the right to assembly, the right to express one's political views are being violated, but we must also be concerned about where the fundamental rights contained in the international labour organisation are being violated - the right to working conditions, the right to a minimum wage, the right to breaks and so on. i believe this report is important. on the other hand, i would say that, in addition to any legislative changes, we should also address greater awareness among consumers, among citizens of the european union, and strengthen, for example, the introduction of a fair clothing label so that consumers know what they are buying.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reality of textile production in europe is very complex. producers are constantly exposed on international markets to aggressive purchasing practices which depend on a multiplicity of global factors, literally impossible to address at national and local level. the consequences of this situation are felt by workers, fuelling the negative effects of social dumping and violations of human rights and labour standards. all the voluntary initiatives undertaken by the private sector over the last 20 years, while providing essential frameworks for collaboration on issues such as health and safety at work, have not proved effective. the positive experience of some member states, such as germany and france, should encourage europe to move towards organic regulation of the sector, in line with the oecd guidelines. in a sector as complex as this, we need much more than a working document, we need binding legislation and in a short time.
in writing. the textile and clothing sector is currently one of the most developed in the world, employing some 60 million people and continuously creating new jobs, especially in developing countries. but there is a huge risk facing these countries. in many cases, too rapid and aggressive economic development and fierce global competition have seriously jeopardized the respect for workers' human rights. some of the many examples are: ridiculous wages, forced labor, unjustified dismissals, shameful sanitary and safety conditions. the five star movement has always fought for the protection of human rights, especially workers' rights. i therefore believe that the european union must make a strong effort to resolve this inhumane situation and put an end to the many human rights violations which thousands of workers are unfortunately suffering.
mr president, i would like to use this format of the minutes to point out that i put a question for written answer to the commission and that the answer i received was very brief basically as brief as the questions themselves. i would therefore like to point out in this context that the commission is not making much of an effort to answer our questions. specifically, these are my questions from february 9th of this year, when i asked questions related to the investigation of czech railways' business practices by the european commission. my questions were directed to procedural matters, i did not want to interfere in the investigation itself. this investigation must be objective, and i want it to be completely objective. on the other hand, the questions that were asked here were influenced by some reports in the czech press and i unfortunately did not get answers to some of these uncertainties. so i can hardly inform the czech citizens how the investigation itself is going. so please, let's think about the quality of the answers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a demographic study recently published by the istat shows that southern italy is becoming less and less populated, older and poorer. in the next few decades italy will face a sharp decline in population, and the southern part of the country will suffer the most from this reduction, from 34% to 29%. and it will not only be due to the decline in births, but also to a sharp upturn in internal migration, which will lead the south to lose over a million inhabitants, mostly young people, and 13% of its working-age population by 2065. i call on the commission to put its words into practice by taking concrete action on the peripheries of europe through specific and targeted policies. migration and the ageing of the population are the result of an economic crisis which has affected everyone, but which is particularly hard to overcome in areas far from markets. inclusive and supportive, cohesive and strong, participatory and democratic are just the words we attribute to a europe that we would like to see leaving no one behind.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president hoyer, we have tabled several amendments to these resolutions on the eib, first of all to increase funding for micro and small enterprises, which we believe are the fabric of enterprises that are essential for the revival of the european union's economy, to work on transparency and to eliminate conflict of interest in the governing bodies, and to avoid collusion between the governing bodies of the european investment bank and the market, as is evident in some projects. we are also concerned about the infrastructure projects financed by the eib and the efsi. we call for absolute transparency on procurement and subcontracting, for no funding for projects under investigation for tax fraud and corruption - one in every three of us has a master's degree in italy - and for independent ex ante and ex post evaluations to certify the proven social, economic and environmental added value. finally, the eib should pay even more attention to the network of financial intermediaries and check that they are not involved in evasion, avoidance, corruption and money laundering.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis has weakened european economic growth considerably, and one of the main factors is the drop in investment. in the countries most affected by the crisis, the decline in public and private investment, as shown by eurostat's findings, has reached alarming levels and unemployment rates remain high. the eib is to help overcome regional inequalities by advising on the development of private projects and identifying more effective ways of supporting the economic development of countries under stabilisation programmes. access to finance is the real problem of small and mediumsized enterprises. a new strategy is needed to facilitate access to finance for smes, including through trade facilitation programmes and initiatives such as the european progress microfinance facility. in view of the strategic role of micro-enterprises and smes, the eib should give priority to supporting enterprises in countries with an unfavourable economic and banking environment. unfortunately, that certainly does not happen in the most effective way.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the president of the eurogroup on the state of play of the second review of the economic adjustment programme for greece (2017/2660 ((rsp)).
president of the eurogroup. – mr president, it is an honour once again to participate in this exchange of views on the second review of the greek adjustment programme. i regret not having been able to join you a few weeks ago; as i indicated in writing to you, mr president, domestic political obligations prevented me from accepting your previous invitation. there was certainly no ill will intended on my part, and i very much value the regular exchanges that i have with parliament and stand ready to work with you in the coming months. before turning to greece, let me shortly address the issue of my remarks in an interview with the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung last month. in this interview, i made the point that respecting our agreed framework is crucial for maintaining confidence and solidarity in the eurozone. in the days following the interview, however, my words were linked to the situation during the crisis periods in certain southern european countries. this is very unfortunate as it was not what i said, and certainly not what i had intended to say. the crisis years have impacted societies throughout the eurozone and throughout the union at great social expense, and solidarity has been justified. the way i expressed myself has caused offence, and i regret this very much. it was, of course, never my intention to insult people. i have worked for the past four years to bring the eurozone closer together, and the last thing i want is to cause new divides. as parliament stated in its recent resolution on the budgetary capacity, we can only successfully strengthen the monetary union if responsibility and solidarity are closely linked. i strongly believe in that, and i will continue to work for that. one way to move forward in strengthening the emu is to develop the esm further into a european monetary fund. on my initiative, the efsf and esm programmes are being evaluated at this moment. the report is being drawn up by an evaluation commission led by gertrude tumpel-gugerell and will be published in june, and i can imagine we will devote one of our future hearings to this report. one important lesson is that we should keep and improve on the expertise that has been acquired over the crisis period, and to anchor it at the esm. the esm, in my mind, should be in the lead in designing, negotiating and monitoring future programmes. also, the esm could in the future have a broader preventive mandate in line with how the imf does it now by developing its own country reports to assure objective macroeconomic analysis. in my view, the commission should continue in its role as keeper of the pact. having said that, now let me turn to greece. a lot has been accomplished in the first part of the current programme, such as reform in the financial sector, the setting up of an independent authority of public revenues, implementation of the first leg of an ambitious income tax and pension reform and the creation of a privatisation agency, etc. these steps proved to be instrumental in bolstering confidence, and have resulted in a return of deposits, a reduced dependency on ela and in a much better than expected fiscal performance overall in 2016. eurostat came out last monday with a primary surplus figure of 3.9% for greece. meanwhile, the second review is, admittedly, taking too much time. therefore, at my initiative in february and following intensified high-level talks in march between the institutions and the greek government, an over—arching agreement was reached earlier this month. the authorities in the institutions have agreed on the size, the sequencing and the timing of reform measures underpinning a growth-friendly rebalancing of the economy. in short, the authorities committed to legislating up-front further pension and income tax reforms, each worth about 1% of gdp. pension reforms will become effective in 2019 unconditionally. income tax reform is planned to become effective in 2020 in principle, unless front-loading is needed. we also agreed that the authorities can now legislate expansionary measures to implement as of 2019, provided of course that the medium—term targets are met. apart from possible tax measures, it provides for improvements to the modernised social safety net that greece is rightly developing. beyond this, recent discussions also concerned labour market reforms that balance the need for a flexible economy with the vital respect for workers’ social rights in line with european best practices. this approach has allowed the institutions to resume their mission in athens. they returned last tuesday, and i am confident that an agreement on the whole package will be reached very soon. the eurogroup will then also review greece’s medium—term fiscal trajectory and debt sustainability, and let me just say that i believe that the ten-year period of a primary surplus target of 3.5 per cent should be shortened. in terms of the next steps, i expect that all of this will allow all institutions to come to the conclusion that the numbers add up, and the imf to financially participate. i hope to be able to report to you the successful conclusion of the second review before the end of next month, allowing confidence to return to the greek economy and for greece to join all other eurozone countries in their ongoing process of economic recovery.
member of the commission. mr president, mr president of the eurogroup, ladies and gentlemen, it is in a particularly positive context that i am meeting you today, together with the president of the eurogroup, to share our thoughts, which are in fact common, on a subject which is essential for the euro area and for the european union as a whole. i would like to welcome the action of jeroen dijsselbloem. i can testify, having been previously minister of finance and now commissioner, that since taking office he has worked tirelessly to find a solution to greece's difficulties. he also spoke about the future of economic and monetary union. we'll have a chance to talk about it. the european commission itself will be providing its own reflection paper in a few weeks' time and we will have to think about the most harmonious articulation between the role of the european stability mechanism and the commission as guardian of the general interest. we meet here at a very timely moment, following the notification by eurostat of the 2016 deficit figure earlier this week, which validates what the commission has been saying for several months, that is, that the greek economy has shown itself resilient to the turbulence of 2015 and the effects of capital controls. according to the programme definition, the 2016 primary balance is expected to be 4.2% of gdp. it should be remembered that greece is doing much better than the target of 0.5% of gdp set by the programme, nine times better anyway. this is, of course, still subject to confirmation. some elements are under discussion with the greek and athenian authorities, but the performance is still to be welcomed. greece is therefore on track to meet its target of 1.75% of gdp in 2017 and 3.5% of gdp in 2018. that is the commission's view. these developments are the result of a fiscal consolidation package that included quality parametric measures, adopted in 2015 and 2016, with a cumulative fiscal return. however, it is important to be aware of the figure of 4.5% of gdp. such efforts should not be forgotten or ignored. they must be grounded and deep. this is good news, but we must not be complacent about the economic and social situation in greece. as i said the last time i was here, the positive trends of 2016 now seem to be taking a back seat, in particular due to delays in the culture of the second review of the esm programme and we know that unemployment remains at unacceptable levels in absolute terms, including youth unemployment. investment also needs to be boosted further to support growth. greece cannot afford to lose the momentum gained in 2016. this requires constructive support from all to accompany the process of anchoring reforms and recovery, which has begun to emerge. for me and for the commission, this means that the greek authorities, all the institutions, all the actors must be even more vigilant. we must work constructively and collectively to close the second review as soon as possible. where are we? what are the next steps? i am simply repeating what the president of the eurogroup said. first, substantive agreement was reached in valletta this month on the post-programme budgetary parameters needed to conclude the agreement. this should also allow the review to be completed and the remaining gaps to be filled. the post-programme package for 2019 and 2020 will be tax neutral if the forecasts are correct. it will consist of new budgetary measures amounting to 2% of gdp. but these measures are essentially a rearrangement of public finances to strengthen growth and social protection. the package also includes up to 2% of the pro-growth measures to be implemented if greece achieves its primary surplus targets, as we believe it will. at the same time, the commission will continue to monitor closely the social impact of the package, in particular on pensions. the valletta agreement and the contacts made since then have enabled the institutions to return to athens this week. the aim is shared, to reach a technical agreement quickly. this agreement is essential to limit the risks of delays, notably on the positive fiscal result in greece last year, and to deal with uncertainty, which is the worst enemy of the greek economy. greece and its authorities have made significant progress on the remaining parts of the programme. i shall not go into detail here, since they were presented during our discussion in the last plenary session. but the current mission should make it possible to make progress on the elements which remain to be dealt with, both as regards the conditionality of the review and the post-programme measures. we remain convinced that, with the substantive reforms and the efforts to be pursued under this programme, the greek economy is able to turn the page after a long and difficult period, but it must be supported, not hampered by uncertainty. the recovery must also be sustained and anchored. in the context of the work of the eurogroup, the commission, under the responsibility of its president, shall do all it can in its role as facilitator to ensure that the balanced package is implemented faithfully and swiftly. once the technical agreement has been obtained, the greek authorities must implement a series of preliminary measures. i note that some have already been implemented, but others are to be finalised in the coming days and weeks in legal and administrative terms. it is not an easy task, but we are confident that we can do it. if everything goes constructively, the evaluation of this second review should allow for a formal agreement - this is what i hope for at the next eurogroup - and thus pave the way for the disbursement of funds. finally, the commission will also continue to support efforts to make greek debt more sustainable. we believe that it is necessary and possible. as you know, we have been advocating for some time that a more realistic trajectory for primary surplus will be needed after the end of the programme. that's why we fight. without a more credible path, markets will not be willing to lend at reasonable rates and greece will continue to be overly dependent on the support of its european partners. in the end, it is a question of burden-sharing between greece and the eurogroup. in this context, the commission is of course prepared to work towards a fair compromise. i believe very sincerely that this is what we are achieving with jeroen dijsselbloem.
before we begin the debate, i would like to inform you that i will not be accepting a blue card question today. we are in a hurry because the vote will take about an hour and a half. so we have to hurry. i thank you for respecting the speaking time during the debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i am glad to hear that mr dijsselbloem recognises that his words were inappropriate and says that they were misunderstood. but now let us focus on greece: the greek economy is at a turning point. the primary surplus for 2016 has reached an astonishing level – far above the target of 0.5. imf forecasts have proved to be wrong. notwithstanding such an impressive fiscal consolidation, economic recovery is underway. the agreement reached at the last eurogroup on the fiscal structural measures and the contingent expansionary package has been difficult, but now it gives us the concrete hope that this top—level agreement can be reached quickly, possibly in a few days. on this basis, we expect – and urge – the next eurogroup to conclude the second review and to address the necessary debt relief issues. it is evident, as you said, that the primary surplus of 3.5 can be sustainable only for a very limited period of time. we need a medium—term fiscal path which is economically realistic and credible and a package of medium-term debt relief measures that is consistent with such a revised path. this overall political agreement is urgent and essential, not only for allowing greece to honour its financial commitment in good time, but is necessary to keep up the positive momentum of the economy and to allow greece to return to bond markets and to be included in the ecb qe programme, which will be a powerful driver towards stability, confidence and growth. greek citizens deserve this. europe deserves this. let us not waste this opportunity; let us not miss the deadline again. let us honour our duty and obligation of unity and solidarity and restore credibility and hope in the european project.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr dijsselbloem for coming here to this parliament to give an account of what he said, because we find it scandalous that a finance minister from a country like the netherlands, which is in fact a tax haven and has been running a surplus of more than 6% for several years, like germany, is giving moral lessons to the countries of the south by saying that we are spending money on alcohol and women. i would like to know if we calculate the difference in competitiveness created by the netherlands, or germany for the surplus and the netherlands on the question of tax evasion, or perhaps even luxembourg, we see that there would be a lot of money to give to the countries of the south who are suffering from the policies linked to the maintenance of the single currency and the euro. greece is continuing to make unsustainable sacrifices in the conflict of interests on which this european union is founded, because the european union is founded on a conflict of interests between the market and politics. we sell ports and airports, we sell all the public assets and welfare of southern europe. in exchange for what? in return for nothing, because the interest on these loans is unsustainable. so let us be aware of what you are doing as a policy, because people will judge you and will continue to judge you and the european union, founded on conflict of interest, will not go on like this.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about greece today, but we are really talking about the whole eurozone and this project. president dijsselbloem - i should rather say outgoing president and outgoing minister - you have demonstrated and demonstrated by your actions all the criminal and destructive elements in the eurozone project and the maastricht project. greece, as an old europeanist and italian prime minister once said, is precisely the manifestation and example of the greatest success of the euro, because the real objective of the euro is not and will never be the convergence of countries and the well-being of citizens, but only the suppression of workers' rights and wages and the destruction of countries, as happened in greece. the policies you have put in place in this country are demonstrating that the unsustainability of this project and the dissolution of this project are only a matter of time. these are just issues that are being brought forward, but they will have to be dealt with at some point. you have brought about the destruction of the working class, the destruction of the peoples, not only of southern europe but also of countries like his, by your policies, and the election results have shown this, with a drastic fall of the socialists not only in the netherlands but in many european countries. what's going to happen now? his parable and the parable of socialists throughout europe show how this project is inevitably and inexorably destined to dissolve. today you may be celebrating pyrrhic victories, such as those of prime minister rutte or of the french banking and finance spokesman macron, but your policies will inevitably lead to the destruction of a project which is imperialist and colonialist, as is demonstrated today by the results of the third adjustment programme - as you call it - for greece. history and the people are already paying the price, and it is only a matter of time before this project comes to an end and the peoples and nations of europe can finally hope again for a prosperous future without the euro and without the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of the eurogroup has finally come to the house, but his statements are too late, a delay which is a sign of rudeness and a lack of awareness of his role. we all know that the eurogroup's job is to discuss issues relating to the eurozone's responsibility and growth, but we also know that the eurogroup does good and bad weather on fiscal, monetary and structural policies. ask the greeks. the population is poor and people have no work. and be assured, the greeks have not spent their savings on women and alcohol, but they are paying the price of the troika. the greek tragedy ended with the german all-in, who, like a skilled gambler, seized greek state assets such as ports and airports at high prices. the eurogroup is not doing the citizens any good. have the courage to face the truth and stop making fun of millions of unwitting victims.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am referring to rule 22 (4) of the rules of procedure and i am addressing myself to you as our representative in international relations to denounce a dramatic case of human rights violation, the case of christian provvisionato, an italian citizen who has been held for almost two years in a barracks, an innocent victim of a scandal involving the sale of a spy software system and who is therefore being held in the barracks in mauritania without having been charged with any crime. a man with severe diabetes who was weakened to the point of losing 90 pounds. a man who has lost all hope and who, as of may 1st, will be on a hunger strike of the utmost intensity, which could even endanger his life. mr president, christian is an italian citizen, but he is also a european citizen, and so we ask for the support and action of the presidency, the high representative and all the member states, because we believe that christian must return home as soon as possible to his loved ones and to his partner, whom he was and must marry. we ask for christian to be released.
mr castaldo, you know that this is not an item on the agenda, but of course we will pass on your remark and your request.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
thanks for the advice. but we are obliged to state what we are voting on when we discharge the budget.
member of the commission, in writing. commission statement as regards the sharing of information with the european parliament and the council in article 9, the commission notes that rules on access by the european parliament to information held by the commission are already defined in the framework agreement agreed by the european parliament and the commission. the commission will therefore apply article 9 in a way that is consistent with the framework agreement and without prejudice to any future general rules on access by the european parliament and the council to information held by the commission.
that's why, your honor. i have already told you that the text will be voted on article by article as it has come to the house. because i have the ability. (the president urged mr preda to behave in a manner befitting the house)
that concludes the voting.
the eib's financial activities in 2015 show an increase in risk appetite and the push towards special financial instruments. the result is now clear: the european resources are increasingly being used to fuel high-risk financial instruments, with engineering that is likely to lead soon to the explosion of a new giant speculative bubble. in addition to denouncing the huge share of eib loans granted to a country outside the union which is a clear violation of human rights, such as turkey, i would like to point out here that the eib supports indirect financing operations for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are often based on speculative investment funds and do not pursue the objective of consolidating the real economy. in general, the eib is involved in supporting infrastructure projects with a serious environmental impact, with a very low employment impact and with little economic or social added value. i therefore vote against.
today i voted in favour of the annual report on the control of the eib's financial activities for 2015. the strengthening of the eib's economic role and the increase in its investment capacity must be accompanied by greater transparency in order to ensure effective public scrutiny of its activities and the selection of projects. information on funding opportunities and the advisory service offered should also be improved in order to increase funding for local authority and sme projects and to facilitate access to its funding. supporting economic recovery, sustainable growth and strengthening cohesion is a key objective of european policies. structural challenges, in particular those related to the reindustrialisation of europe and the digital economy, need to be better addressed in order to create new economic opportunities, promote the development of a circular economy and enhance the use of renewable energy, in line with the objectives of environmental, climate and energy policies.
the so-called structural reforms have in fact been counter-reforms in recent years, depriving european citizens of their rights and gains. history has taught us nothing and now there is a new programme to implement, to help theoretically, but in reality to guide the states to adopt what was the greek solution, which has so tragically failed in that country and which is to be extended. this programme is a kind of suicide aid to both individual states and the idea of europe, and we are therefore strongly opposed to it. the minimum objective we tried to achieve with a large majority in the committee on culture was to at least remove the field of education from these draconian treatments, which are totally useless in restoring the budgets of the states, and we were not listened to even in this. there's nothing positive to be preserved from these failures.
the new regulation adopted today on the member states' reform support programme will help to implement measures to improve institutions, governance, administration, the economy and local sectors. the specific objectives of the programme are to support the initiatives of national authorities to structure reforms according to priorities, to improve their capacity to develop and implement reform strategies and to follow an integrated approach to ensure consistency between objectives and means across all sectors. actions funded by the programme include seminars, workshops and conferences, working visits, studies, research, analysis and surveys. member states wishing to receive support under the programme will have to submit a request to that effect in the framework of the european semester dialogue. the commission and the member states concerned shall ensure consistency, complementarity and synergies between the actions carried out under this programme and those implemented through other european union instruments.
i voted for it. i would like to thank mr diaconu for his work, although the limited funds available make this initiative more than symbolic. however, symbols are also important and i will make every effort to ensure that the initiatives do not leave out areas affected by natural disasters, such as central italy, where there is a great cultural heritage. cultural heritage is a privilege, but it is also a source of duties. to paraphrase a native american saying, we inherit it from our parents and we borrow it from our children to whom we must return it. today, in many areas of europe, austerity policies and cuts have made this very difficult. i hope that this initiative, this european year of cultural heritage, will be a first step towards a change of direction.
the designation of 2018 as the european year of cultural heritage provides a valuable opportunity to promote our cultural excellence as a shared resource, the fruit of a centuries-old history. in an era of increasing cultural diversity, cultural heritage can play an important role in community cohesion. from archaeological sites to architecture, from medieval castles to folk traditions to the arts, europe's cultural heritage is the beating heart of the identity and collective memory of european citizens and as such must be safeguarded and protected. in addition, some 300 000 people are directly employed in the cultural heritage sector in the european union, which indirectly generates 7.8 million jobs. on my territory i live the virtuous example of the bourbon regia of caserta and pompeii, now flying for the tourist economy of an entire region. we have to do something, 2018 is just around the corner. everyone must do their part to ensure that the european year of cultural heritage becomes a real opportunity to re-launch the image of the old continent in the eyes of the world.
the outermost regions have historically been disadvantaged, not only by their geographical situation but also by shortsighted political choices influenced by the interests of the old continent. i therefore support the rodust report because it protects small-scale fishing and protects fishermen. in the outermost regions, small vessels represent the vast majority of registered vessels and are often the only ones defending their seas against illegal fishing by the large extra-eu fleets. the fisheries that are being defended here are sustainable fisheries, those mentioned in the latest reform of the common policy and which are in no way threatened by these vessels, which, moreover, hold only a minimal percentage of the fishing quotas in their seas. mutatis mutandis the very fisheries we must defend in our own seas are unfortunately threatened by large fishing vessels from northern europe and beyond. it is the fishing carried out by small fishermen, all too often with improvised boats and for that very reason also unsustainable and unsafe. so we use what we have, we use the structural funds, we use the emff to support our fishermen. the common fisheries policy is not perfect, especially for our mediterranean, but that is why we must do everything we can to support local fisheries, within the limits of the law and environmental sustainability.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 27 april 2017.
before i give the floor to the honourable members who have asked for it on a point of order, i would remind you that today is international family day. this commemoration, established in 1993 by the united nations general assembly, is intended to promote greater awareness of the social, economic and demographic issues affecting the family. the family is the basic nucleus of our social organization, and it has the fundamental role, along with the school, of forming our young people and transmitting the values on which our common life is based. this parliament has always stood by the family, and in particular we have always strongly supported the importance of ensuring a better balance between family and work. i want to stress today that we will continue to work with conviction along this path. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to address myself to you and to my colleagues in the house to denounce the fact that the council and seven countries of the european union are in fact blocking aid to the earthquake-stricken areas of central italy. this is a proposal which would allow for 100% co-financing of the reconstruction of earthquake-hit areas. i would remind all my colleagues that seven months after the disaster, most of the citizens are still living in tents and do not even have the semblance of a normal life. these are the moments when we must show that the european union really wants to change and thus show the solidarity of the european union. hurry up, we have to rebuild now!
the rapporteur will of course defend parliament's position at the trilogue, as parliament's position has been very clear on this matter, so i will convey your position to the rapporteur, but i think he already knows it very well. however, it is in parliament's interest to protect the decision already taken by parliament on this subject.
i want to be very clear on this and other issues. i do not want to stifle political debate in this parliament, but if we ask for sanctions for every speech on which we do not agree, unless it is a statement which violates the principles of the european union, we risk turning this parliament into a sort of censorship. i have no intention of stifling the debate. we may agree or disagree, but if every speech in which a state is censored, a state is attacked or people are criticised until there is extreme violence, but these are only political attacks, i do not think it is right to intervene with sanctions, because this speech applies to one side and the other, on any subject. i have intervened when vulgar phrases were used against other colleagues or when they were unacceptable because they violated the values of the european union, but i do not think it is right to intervene with sanctions in the rest of the matter. i take full responsibility for this, since it is my responsibility to impose sanctions.
the agenda includes the report by julia pitera, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report 2015 on the protection of the eu's financial interests - fight against fraud [2016/2097(ini] (a8-0159/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, i am very grateful for this opportunity to participate in this debate on the parliament’s yearly resolution on the protection of the european union’s financial interests. the fight against fraud is of the utmost importance for the commission, as it is for the parliament. protection of the european union’s budget is all the more important at a time when the trust of citizens in the european project and in its capability to bring security and prosperity is at risk. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the committee on budgetary control, and in particular ms pitera, the rapporteur, for the excellent work done on this motion for a resolution. the result is a comprehensive and well-structured report which covers a broad range of issues. it is also thanks to the political pressure exercised by the european parliament in its annual resolutions that several issues highlighted in the commission reports have been addressed and progress has been made at european and at member state level. over the last five years together, we have significantly reinforced a framework for the protection of the union’s financial interests. let me recall just the most important measures that we have adopted. we have adopted several important acts modernising the legal framework for the protection of the financial interests of the european union such as the revision of the olaf regulation in 2013, the package on public procurement directives in 2014 and the four delegated and four implementing acts on irregularity reporting. the legal framework for the programming period 2014-2020 for the first time refers explicitly to the obligation for member states to put in place proportionate and effective anti-fraud measures. on the revenue side, the revised regulation on mutual administrative assistance in the customs area entered into force, creating new databases to fight better customs fraud. the last and not the least of these legal achievements is the directive on the protection of the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law, for which a political agreement was finally reached, also thanks to the persistence of the parliament. but this is not all. there are also important ongoing legal initiatives. the negotiations of the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) have moved forward very fast in the last month, and we now have 17 member states willing to establish the eppo in enhanced cooperation and a few more making preparations to join it. like the parliament, the commission supports establishing a strong and efficient eppo with as many member states as possible and with the necessary means to effectively fight crimes affecting the union budget. we are convinced that the eppo has significant potential to improve the current situation as regards the low level of prosecutions for crimes affecting the union’s financial interests. olaf will continue to play a key role as regards non-fraudulent and fraudulent irregularities. it will complement and support the work of the eppo. beyond the protection of financial interests it will continue also investigations into serious facts by members of the institutions and staff, likely to lead to disciplinary or criminal proceedings. the commission is determined to maintain a sufficiently strong olaf which will operate across all member states and will thereby play a crucial role to ensure that an adequate protection of the european union’s budget is assured in the whole european union. over the last five years we have also made progress on concrete actions and measures. i will mention three examples for which the parliament’s support, reiterated in the pitera report, is once more important and particularly welcome. the first is the embedding of anti-fraud measures in national anti-fraud strategies. the second is to extend the use of it tools by all member states to strengthen the fight against fraud, and the third is the accomplishment of harmonised and qualitative reporting of the detected irregularities and frauds by the member states. the commission acknowledges that the reported data are still not fully comparable and takes note of the request of the parliament to improve the situation. new guidelines are being prepared in cooperation with national experts to address the most important issues to reduce disparities and standardise the reporting process. the document is expected to be finalised this year. it is by analysing such data that we can ultimately understand whether the measures we have adopted really make a difference. however, there is still much to do. the commission will keep on fulfilling its role of supporting and assisting member states where needed and of facilitating the exchange of best practices and know-how. i would like to close my intervention, stressing once more the importance of the parliament’s resolution. it is by acting together towards the same target that we have achieved all these improvements. but we are aware that we cannot rest on our laurels. we count on you to keep on stimulating, encouraging and also criticising when necessary – the commission and the member states – in their fulfilment of the treaty obligation to protect the union’s financial interests from irregularities and from fraud.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his introduction and mr pitera, the rapporteur, for his excellent work. the 2015 financial interests protection report again unfortunately shows a significant increase in fraudulent irregularities and corruption cases in several areas of interest of the european budget. in this context, the pif directive and the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office are now fundamental instruments for effectively combating crimes against the financial interests of the union, but also, and consequently, for combating organised crime and terrorism, which, as we now know, are often also financed through these illegal activities. however, pending the entry into force of these instruments, action is needed to strengthen the capacity for coordination between national control structures and to ensure closer cooperation between the member states and olaf, given that, to date, one third of the olaf alerts have not yet been followed up by the national authorities. and it is precisely coordination that seems to be the area where we still need to work. we cannot help but notice the absence of a mutual administrative assistance instrument to improve the exchange of information within the framework of the structural funds. in fact, i had already pointed out this need in 2015 in my parliamentary work, but two years later, this proposal, which seems more necessary than ever today, has not yet been followed up, also considering what olaf has said and emphasised. another key aspect is the possibility of coordinating joint investigative actions under the auspices of olaf, to be carried out simultaneously in the member states concerned. the european union has already developed a very important experience in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and i am convinced that exporting this experience also in the area of administrative investigations can represent added value. but all this must go hand in hand with the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, which, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, will be established through the enhanced cooperation procedure and therefore requires coordinated action between administrative inquiries and criminal investigations. last but certainly not least, in the fight against crossborder fraud is the role that whistleblowers can play. the delicate nature of their role and the importance of their task necessarily require a european and national regulatory framework which clearly defines rights and obligations, and in this connection i hope that the commission will be able to proceed as soon as possible with the preparation of a legislative proposal to that effect. much has certainly been done and much remains to be done, but as a parliament we are fully committed to protecting the financial interests of the union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank my colleagues on the committee on transport and tourism for the work we have done with great dedication this year. we believe that it is very important to increase transparency in the field of public procurement and subcontracting, where fraud is often involved, and above all to ensure that there is cooperation between the member states to prevent crossborder fraud. we see how easy it is to circumvent the control system when using particular crossings within the union, so it is vital to cooperate on this issue. another key issue is that of european law in general on organised crime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are our main points.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of financial interests should be one of the fundamental elements of european union policy, in order to increase the confidence of citizens by ensuring that their money is used correctly and efficiently. i would point out that despite the positive reduction of 11% in irregularities reported as fraudulent compared to 2014, in 2015 the corresponding amounts actually increased by 18%. the european union and the member states share responsibility for protecting the union's financial interests, and national authorities manage about 80% of european spending. it is quite clear that the system of cooperation between the commission and the member states in the field of fraud detection is seriously flawed. the work of olaf should be facilitated and conditions should be established to ensure the admissibility of the evidence provided, encouraging the authorities of the member states to conduct joint investigations. i too am in favour of the establishment of an autonomous and independent european public prosecutor's office, which has the necessary legal instruments and is able to work effectively with other existing european bodies and with the authorities of the member states.
in writing. the fight against fraud to the detriment of the union must be fought decisively. the annual report shows an increase of 36%, which makes decisive action absolutely necessary. major weaknesses in prevention and control relate to the vat sector: the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this regulation. an analysis of the feasibility of homogenising the same is therefore urgent, as is the urgent need for action in other areas particularly affected by the phenomenon: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. three types of intervention are essential to tackle the problem: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used in a way that would be harmful to the public interest.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that, although i share the work and the project we are discussing, we are analysing the problem without taking account of two fundamental points. the first is that we are leveling up education systems by adapting them to processes of change towards globalisation, which are precisely distorting the very essence of the education system as conceived not only within the european union, but also in individual member states. education should be a time of personal and cultural growth for young people, and today, instead, we're moving in exactly the opposite direction, creating an education system that serves the labor market the way we want it or the way we program it, made of globalization, made of simply changes that not everyone can adapt to. from another perspective it is as if we were trying to cure a terminally ill patient with aspirin, because, however much we may try to stem the problem of qualifications within the european union, we know very well what the underlying problem is, the fact that unemployment is a real and dramatic problem today and that if we do not start to solve the problems from the bottom up, that is to say where action is primarily needed, then whatever other measures we find, seek or imagine will be neither effective nor efficient. if we do not create jobs, if we do not make expansionary moves to support employment and if we do not try to solve the very serious problem of unemployment at all levels, we could talk about all this but it would make no sense, and it is no accident that we are talking about mobility. let me give you an example with some data: last year 110,000 young italians left my country because there are no prospects, and believe me, ladies and gentlemen, the young people who left had qualifications, had titles, had skills, but they found a country that did not know how to value them. this is the reality, we have to start solving the problems at the root because we build and we are building a house starting from the roof, but we never put a solid foundation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the employability of workers must be a priority objective on the european agenda. employability and competitiveness are two essential steps for a growing and developing europe. the development of skills, knowledge and abilities unlocks the extraordinary potential of our human capital. the tools for assessing skills already acquired or, even more so, those needed in a changing economy exploring new spaces and opportunities are a key step in enabling an effective match between labour supply and demand. in short, the labour market today requires us, in a context of flexibility, to constantly and permanently update the contents of training courses, so shared criteria for the comparability of education and training processes make these courses even more transparent, improving the employability of workers and encouraging their mobility. another great opportunity is that, at a time when the migration flows of citizens in various forms are making it the objective of their real integration, the correlation between the national and regional qualifications frameworks of third countries and the eqf seems to be an absolutely not negligible requirement. it is therefore necessary to promote the transfer of qualifications between the various education and training systems in the various member states, in order to support the demands of the enterprise system and thus promote employment. i would like to conclude by saying that the best possible response to the new technological and demographic challenges is to finally write the new political agenda for employment, rights and equal opportunities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is truly unacceptable that in times of economic crisis each citizen of the european union should waste on average 173 kilograms of food per year, and on the other hand, if this is an average, it means that there are poor people who waste nothing, because they have little more than nothing, and therefore there are rich people who waste twice or even much more than twice this enormous amount. we will support any proposal to reduce this waste, such as the gradual reduction in the price of foodstuffs as they approach their natural expiry date. on the other hand, at the same time, we believe that it is really unacceptable that in times of ecological crisis there is food waste. food has a negative impact on the environment when it's produced, and it has a negative impact on the environment when it's wasted, because it becomes waste and therefore has to be disposed of. our recipe is very simple: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the prevention of food waste, the promotion of responsible consumption and the absolute prohibition of landfilling and incineration of all types of food waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was very surprised to read in a recent study that if food waste were represented by a single state, it would be the third largest producer of carbon dioxide on the planet, not to mention that for every undernourished person in the world, at least two are overweight. europe has committed itself, with the un sustainable development goals, to halving this, one of the most intolerable economic, environmental and ethical contradictions, but nothing, to date, is provided for in european legislation. so, number one: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. two , i 'm not . the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help achieve this objective, including the specific measures mentioned above, but also a specific food hierarchy which gives priority to human consumption through donations. waste is not just in the final consumption, but in the entire chain, from agricultural production to food processing, from distribution to catering, and that's where we need to make it more cost-effective for businesses to donate to those in need rather than waste. finally, encourage the use of organic waste that is no longer donated as a secondary raw material for new products. so my appeal here to the member states and the commission is to share this urgency which parliament is also expressing with this further and important report, to find a solution starting from the circular economy package which is being negotiated today. europe must be at the forefront of these issues, which call into question the values of solidarity and fairness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the transition to a circular economy is weak, much weaker without common european rules to reduce food waste throughout the chain: production, distribution and consumption. it is not a question, as i would say to the honourable member who spoke earlier, of interfering with and hindering national initiatives; on the contrary, these must be supported, encouraged and coordinated, but a common european basis is needed. it is an illusion that such a gigantic problem can be solved only by national measures. we must not bury our heads in the sand. reducing food waste is an urgent necessity. we are in the midst of an incredible paradox, as other colleagues have said, of 1.3 billion tonnes of food wasted, four times the amount needed to feed the 800 million undernourished men and women. but food waste is not only an intolerable injustice, a gigantic social inequality to be ashamed of, it is also a waste of raw materials, a waste of land, a waste of water, a waste of energy, a multiplication of waste and environmental damage. that's why, again, it's a blow to the transition to a circular economy if we limit ourselves to good debates. a legislative initiative by the european commission is urgently needed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food waste is an unacceptable scandal of our time, as this report points out. in fact, while we need to increase food production by 70% in the next few years to feed a growing population, a third of the food produced in the world is wasted, of which 80% could still be consumed, in europe 180 kg per capita. with food thrown away, we also waste land, water and fertilizer, not to mention the greenhouse gas emissions that are necessary to produce it. reducing food waste by 50% by 2030, as set out in the circular economy package approved by parliament, requires the commitment of everyone - producers, retailers, restaurateurs, businesses, individuals and households. 42 percent of food waste in europe occurs in the home, at a cost of over 500 euros per family per year. let's start at home to promote a more socially, environmentally and economically sustainable development model through waste prevention campaigns and by encouraging food donations of unsold food.
i have listened very carefully to the debate of my colleagues and i must say that i agree with what has been said here. most of us here are describing the gigantic scale of the phenomenon and the problem of food waste. and i'm going to repeat that number because in this case, the repetition of some numbers is very important. 88 million tonnes of food are wasted every year in the eu. it's a really special number. the problem has been described here from both an ethical perspective, where many people on this planet have nothing to eat, and an economic perspective, and most importantly, an ecological perspective. it was a hint of the enormous cost of producing this food, but also of disposing of it. i am glad that this is the material that points out this problem, but of course this material must be put into practice and i am calling on the commission, on the commissioner, to do everything possible to ensure that there is a concrete action plan that will bring about concrete things. for example, the tax treatment of food donations. and i think that's really important, because there can be a clear tax incentive for people, businesses, businesses to donate food that they're not going to use. it clearly describes how households should behave, for example, home composting. that's something i'm also working on, so please let's put this plan into action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food waste is an absurd paradox of modern times. on the one hand, there is the need to increase food production by 60-70 percent to feed a growing population, and on the other, more than a third of the food produced in the world is wasted, 80 percent of which is still edible. this waste is all the more illogical the more waste is produced, the more the environmental crisis, the more poverty and malnutrition are experienced. a problem that affects diverse fields, however, requires action on several fronts. waste is the whole process of bringing food from the field to the table. the consumption and production habits of individual communities must be addressed through legislation, but also through extensive information work. secondly, surplus food must be recovered and used for human consumption by supporting the social welfare agencies. all these actions must start from a common definition of food waste, to start reliable systems that can monitor how much is wasted because, as someone has already said, the most dangerous kind of waste is the one we are unable to recognize.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food waste is the most profound contradiction, the most intolerable paradox of our time. it is also the number that represents our inability to address one of the most serious social injustices. if we think about the living conditions of millions of people, if we imagine, for just a moment, that the most precious human capital, children and girls, are being robbed of their future by malnutrition and hunger, then the issue of inequality, imbalance and opportunity intersects with the other issues, with the issues of the future of the planet and of our continent, with the issues of soil protection, of limiting consumption, of climate change, of hydrogeological disaster, of natural disasters, in a modern vision of the waste cycle. it is a crucial issue, ethical, yes, but also a vision of development and growth. the reflection which the report offers us is an excellent working tool, it is a goal in relation to which time cannot and must not be an unimportant variable.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, in europe there are no frontiers between the various countries, but only one large common frontier for all goods coming in from outside. the rules for crossing the frontier should be the same everywhere, but in some places this frontier is weaker than in others and this situation creates a distortion of trade from abroad and a detriment to the financial resources of the european union. the resolution i am writing is a parliamentary document which sets this situation in black and white and has been prepared with the valuable input of my fellow opinion-makers and the shadow rapporteurs in the inta committee, whom i would like to thank. madam president, there are european ports where customs controls are strict and careful, and others where they are less so. this situation creates unfair competition between shippers, port authorities and states, which europe cannot tolerate. i've been looking into it and i've found several different types of distortion. there is the case, for example, where the same european legislation is respected but applied differently in different countries. there are some ports which are on the verge of being legally bound by european rules and there are also those which do not comply with the rules, enjoying, for certain periods, the connivance of some of the national authorities. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. this undermines the foundations of european trade policy. when we negotiate free trade agreements, when we tell our citizens that they need not fear products that are harmful to health and the environment, we must be sure that we can keep that promise and that we can control goods entering europe effectively. unfortunately, this is not the case because europe allows some countries to apply the rules differently or to turn a blind eye to parts of community law. that is why in the resolution we call for the commission to intervene to ensure the harmonisation of controls and the uniform application of the law, to identify the differences in treatment between economic operators, to continue the process of computerization and the interoperability of databases at european level. we also call on the commission to assess the impact of these different customs practices on incoming and outgoing trade flows and to work within the wto to promote the implementation of the international agreement on trade facilitation and, finally, to cooperate on customs matters with the main trading partners. ladies and gentlemen, in writing this resolution i met with the operators of many ports in europe and italy, collected their testimonies and brought their concerns to brussels. i would like to thank all the people i met on the ground, in particular the customs agency, the port authorities, but also the shippers and terminal operators in genoa, trieste, taranto, palermo and gioia tauro, and last but not least the health and plant health offices who made their contribution. finally, a special thanks goes to the guardia finanziaria, the police and all those european civil and military forces which carry out customs control activities at the frontiers. i would like to thank them very much and tell them that my resolution is intended to highlight the legislative gaps between our countries, but it is not in any way intended to call into question the excellent work that these forces are doing for the security of goods on our territory. i hope that the commission will follow the recommendations we have made, both for the protection of european citizens, for the protection of shippers, economic operators and port activities, but also for the protection of competition and for the protection of the dignity of commercial policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the customs union is a fundamental pillar of the european union. however, some flaws in the current system raise concerns about trade value distorting, counterfeiting, illicit financial flows and money laundering in commercial activities. differences in customs procedures, in particular as regards customs clearance, inspections, penalties and controls, create fragmentation, divergences in the collection of taxes between member states and market distortions. the customs authorities of the member states should be proactive in sharing data, cooperating with control bodies and, above all, in identifying anomalies linked to price manipulation. only closer customs cooperation can reduce the current shortcomings in customs control systems, ensuring an effective fight against illicit trade, counterfeiting and fraud and thus protecting legitimate traders, who are usually the only ones to suffer the consequences of a fragmented customs system.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank once again all the members who have actively contributed to this resolution. i am a little surprised at some of the positions, especially the one by my green colleague, who spoke of harmonization as a problem for the states which are already the most virtuous. i think that harmonizing customs controls is an opportunity, above all for those countries which are more virtuous today, and among them, i recall, italy, which is the first in terms of the severity of controls. the other thing i would like to point out to commissioner dombrovskis, which has not been mentioned, is that we do not only need more efficient controls, which will certainly have to be done, but above all we need to recognise that we need uniform controls. this is not only and exclusively due to problems related, as i explained at the beginning of my speech, to illegality, and therefore to corruption, but there are also different practices related to different sensitivities. as i said, during the missions i have carried out in the field, i have been able to see how there are different technical sensitivities, so operators are shopping around the fact that in certain ports some counterfeit goods would never enter, as operators are more sensitive on certain subjects, and can do so elsewhere. we need to make customs clearance procedures more streamlined and faster for the operators, but we also need to ensure that it is not possible to bring goods into a different port simply because there is no proper knowledge of certain things. i believe that this is due above all to all european citizens who have the opportunity to be defended and protected in this way, but also to economic operators who do not see the withdrawal of traffic quotas.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the digitalisation of public services contributes to the understanding of public services by citizens, by intensifying dialogue with public authorities, by increasing transparency and by improving the cost-efficiency of services. the new egovernment action plan 2016-2020 presented by the european commission sets ambitious targets for an open, efficient and inclusive digitized administration, with borderless, personalised and intuitive end-to-end digital public services for citizens and all businesses. i am pleased to note the particular attention paid to the protection of personal data, which is essential to win the confidence of citizens and to ensure the success of the strategy adopted. i do not see much of a focus on security. for several days dozens of european states and have not been in check of hackers who threatened the destruction of billions and billions of data. just a few hours ago, we learned that the virus used appears to have been eradicated. cybersecurity is fundamental and perhaps more investment and incentives should be made in this area.
i want to support this report too. commissioner, when i was in the czech republic, i was responsible for egovernment in the czech republic and my experience is that these projects are very important, very expensive, very laborious, implementation usually takes over one election period and so i have a feeling lately that national politicians do not want to invest much time in the development of egovernment. that is why i think it is extremely important that the european commission tackles this issue at central level and it is at least up to you, commissioners, to put pressure on individual, let us say, national politicians, individual national governments, not to underestimate the issue of egovernment, and even though it is a topic that voters cannot immediately appreciate, that does not bring immediate political points, it is an extremely important topic, as my colleagues have made clear during their speeches. we need the european commission, the european parliament to support this, to explain to national politicians why egovernment needs to be implemented.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms verheyen, and the shadow rapporteurs for a very good parliamentary report on the egovernment action plan. there is more to egovernment than just putting up websites and offering public services online. its impact is much more far—reaching. it is a key enabler in achieving the transformation of europe’s public administration, contributing to growth, competitiveness and quality of life. one major achievement of the first year is the proposed draft regulation on the single digital gateway, which also introduced the once—only principle at european level. with the addition of five new actions to the action plan, the mid-term review of the digital single market confirms this. the challenge is not to introduce digital technologies into public administrations, but rather the integration of digital technologies into public sector modernisation efforts. it is its transformative nature, impacting all levels of government and various public policy domains, that has great potential to bring significant benefits. the smart use of ict by governments can help deliver better policies and decisions to tackle the pressing social and economic challenges of our times. by becoming more open and transparent, government and public bodies become more accountable and trustworthy. this report provides an additional layer to the topic of egovernment in general. indeed, it provides further food for thought in terms of developing future actions to be included in the action plan in the coming years. i am encouraged that all eu institutions share a common vision on what the future of egovernment will look like. this vision can only be reached if all stakeholders embrace it and commit themselves to working together to make it a reality: governments, public bodies at all levels – european, national, regional and local – and also industry, business and citizens. the european parliament is uniquely placed in this mission. on the one hand, it can communicate to its constituents the benefits of this digital transformation. on the other hand, it can work together with the commission in adopting egovernment—related legislative proposals. one of the key themes of the egovernment action plan is that the commission shall lead by example in applying the underlying principles of the action plan, such as digital by default, cross—border by default, and applying the once-only principle. the commission is taking its commitment seriously and also offers member states, local and regional administrations and other stakeholders financial support to accelerate the digital transformation of government. this is being done through various programmes, including structural funds, the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020, and i am confident that parliament will also wish to lead by example and it can count on the full support of the commission in advancing the digital transformation of government.
in writing. the modernisation of the internal market is one of the key commitments of this european legislature, which is making progress in several areas and which certainly needs a strong impetus from the national public institutions themselves. this is to be achieved, first of all, by fully digitalising our internal administrations, making them more open and closer to citizens and businesses and able to respond to the challenges of competitiveness and new forms of production. e-government is not just an internal operational tool for the public administration: it is also a driving force for economic development, reducing costs and procedures and opening up new channels of financing, planning and investment. the introduction of new and simpler ways of acting for businesses should therefore be strongly encouraged as a focal point for the development of e-government, in particular through a thorough review of the rules on the digital dimension of company law. this is a subject which will be of great interest in the near future, in view of the progress which parliament is making on the reform of crossborder mergers and divisions.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to express my thanks for this timely debate on relocation just a few hours before we adopt the 12th report on resettlement and relocation. there is no doubt that relocation is vital for the success of our policy. the success of our migration and asylum policy is based on solidarity and responsibility. we have said this many times before in this chamber. this is why it is so essential that relocation works, in all its aspects, and is implemented by everyone. one element remains critical for the success of this scheme: political will, political determination and mutual cooperation and trust between the member states offering relocation and the beneficiary member states. this is not for the benefit just of italy or greece. this is for the benefit of the entire european union and our european asylum system because a properly functioning relocation scheme is also essential to prevent secondary movements and preserve the integrity of the free—borders schengen area. member states have so far relocated, in total, more than 18 000 persons, and we have to acknowledge the tangible and important progress made on relocation, especially during the past five months. however, further efforts are needed and member states should therefore deploy additional effort and flexibility to make the relocation of all eligible applicants currently in italy and greece happen. but this cannot be the responsibility of just a few member states: it has to be shared by all member states. our common goal is for all member states to contribute fairly and proportionately to relocation. right now 12 500 eligible applicants in greece and around 4 000 in italy are registered and ready to be relocated. if all member states step up the number of relocations, it is entirely possible to achieve this goal by september. it is time – as i said before – to show political will and determination. member states should also fully implement the recommendations that we put forward in our regular reports. most importantly, member states should increase their monthly pledges in proportion to their relocations and increase their capacity to process application requests. while many member states have increased their contributions, there are regrettably still a few member states that have not relocated a single person. i want to be clear that this is in breach of their obligations. more generally, member states should also avoid overly restrictive or arbitrary preferences, should limit requirements causing delays in the transfer procedure and should give priority to applications concerning vulnerable applicants, in particular unaccompanied minors. in addition, the commission urges italy to speed up the procedures to identify and register for relocation all eligible applicants and to find mutually acceptable solutions on security interviews with relocating member states. all those eligible for relocation arriving in italy need to be channelled in an orderly manner to specifically designated relocation hubs. all member states should relocate more unaccompanied minors, in particular from italy. i am glad to see that parliament’s draft resolution includes many of these recommendations and i really count on your support, honourable members, to convince member states – or rather governments – to implement them fully and strictly. relocation is a joint effort that requires all member states to contribute. relocation is both an obligation and a moral duty. thank you for your attention and i thank parliament for its continued support. (applause)
solidarity is not a mere mechanism, it is not a choice made out of compassion for those fleeing war and persecution, it is not a commitment that can be postponed. solidarity and full sharing of responsibility are the cornerstones of our system and not instruments to be used voluntarily if certain conditions are met, if the nationality of the beneficiaries is, for example, to our liking, if age and gender seem more appropriate. this restrictive and discriminatory system of preferences is just as punishable as the absolute lack of commitments. by choosing the path of denial of rights, we violate the human dignity of thousands of women, men and especially children, we deny them their basic rights, we take them away from the law, we deprive them of a future. to celebrate an effort made by the member states is a bit like considering a glass containing a few drops of water to be full. the fact that 11 per cent of beneficiaries of international protection have actually been relocated is certainly not an achievement to be proud of. only two member states out of 28 are meeting their commitments, two member states are not even bothering to take in asylum seekers on their territory, and many others are not just promising but actually lying. it is only a few who are doing their part with great difficulty and slowness. and what happens after september 26, 2017? what guarantees will we have that the obligations will not run out after that date? the commissioner, the stick in the air of the infringement procedure will not, by itself, force the member states to assume the obligations of solidarity. a sustainable migration policy is needed to ensure legal and safe pathways, create channels for legal migration, and integrate policies in host countries.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the european parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we also ask member states to avoid subterfuge, i am thinking of the refusal to relocate migrants who arrived in greece after 20 march 2016, the day after the agreement with turkey, an illegal refusal, according to the court of auditors. i would like to add a comment. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the dublin ii system, in particular on the implementation of the european union's 'return to work' programme. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. the commission has also received information from the irish authorities that the irish authorities have not provided any evidence that the irish authorities have been able to obtain the necessary information from the irish authorities. so relocation is necessary but not sufficient. the truth is that the commission often does everything it can to help italy and greece to improve a flawed system which has created situations which have become unsustainable. thank you, commissioner, i would like an answer.
i'm asking for a blue card. i will be very brief. i would ask my colleague, but anyone who speaks of ngos as a danger and a pooling factor, to provide evidence of what they say, because ngos are under attack in a very dishonest way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us be frank, this is a very shameful situation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to provide the necessary financial support to the refugees. that means 142,097 of them have to be relocated by september. this is the solidarity of the european union, and while everyone is talking about populism, intervention and a stronger european union, we are still seeing these situations. italy and greece have been chosen as the refugee camps of the whole of europe, i come from a region, sicily, which is totally collapsing, where politics speculates on the management of migrants. yesterday, some 60 people were arrested in calabria who were involved with the 'ndrangheta, with organized crime, who were speculating on migrants and we are still talking. so the thing to do in this case is to go from words to deeds, to cut structural funds to states that refuse to help. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. thank you for your question, mr frunzulicǎ, that is exactly what i was trying to say, running to the end of my speech. we have unfortunately failed to achieve anything with words, with appeals for solidarity and legal obligations, so we must probably change our attitude. we are cutting european structural funds to those states which have not respected their commitments, which have not accepted to take in the migrants who had to be relocated to their own country. it can be done, let's do it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, but look, i am a little puzzled because, for the love of god, the subject is relocation and it seems to me that it is clear that up to now it has not worked very well, but in reality we are talking about a small piece of a much larger problem, which if it were just relocation would be a very good thing, almost. it should be borne in mind that last year 180 000 people landed in italy. of these, probably, there will be 5 percent who actually flee the war and who manage to get political refugee status, so eventually, it will be this 5 percent that will be resettled. the real problem is everyone else. is there a european plan to bring them home? what do we think we're doing? leave them all in italy? is this the big problem that nobody talks about and what do these people end up doing? they're going to fatten those who are the abusive workers, they're going to fatten the webs of crime. just this week people were arrested in my town who had applied for political asylum but were stealing, dealing drugs. so let's be clear, it's a slave trade that we're seeing right now and unfortunately there's somebody complicit, there's a lot of people doing business and there's somebody complicit, even if they're not doing anything to solve this situation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, of the 160 000 relocations promised over two years from italy and greece to other european countries, only 17 900 have been carried out. a shame, as is the absence of the council from this debate today. all this while canada last year resettled 35,000 syrians in four months, with an ocean in between, proving that the european problem is not a problem of numbers or means, but only of national egoism and lack of political will. governments have not respected their commitments, some have taken applicants to the court of justice, others have tried to cast applicants on the basis of discriminatory criteria or to put forward unspecified security requirements to avoid accepting them. i would like to say to these member states that to want the benefits of being part of a union without ever wanting to share its responsibilities is a childish attitude. it is also absurd not to have suspended the transfer to italy and greece of other applicants under the hypocritical first country of access criterion underlying the dublin regulation, which we hope to finally remove in the current review, just as it is absurd to relocate only nationals with an average of protection above 75, because it has produced genuine discrimination on the ground, contrary to the geneva convention. with all these limitations to be corrected, the relocations must not stop, a new council decision is needed to continue until a reform of dublin that makes a centralized and permanent mechanism of responsibility sharing structural.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of immigration, parliament, the commission and the council, and europe as a whole, are playing a very large part in their credibility. parliament had hoped, pending the amendment of dublin 3 which will finally be implemented shortly, that a principle of solidarity between all the member states would be applied, not leaving italy and greece alone in dealing with a migratory flow which has no precedent in the history of our continent. we had welcomed the relocation plan with great enthusiasm, but today it is really embarrassing to comment on these figures: 18 000 relocations carried out, 11 per cent of the project put forward by the commission, the council and parliament. italy was asked to make an additional effort on the issue of identification, and this was promptly done. italy was asked to create new hotspots, and this was done promptly, but to comment today on the 5,413 relocations from italy i think is a very embarrassing figure. this cannot be allowed to happen, the member states must respect their commitments and, if this does not happen, infringement procedures must be initiated and, commissioner, we must also find extensive measures to reach 160 000 relocations by 26 september 2017.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the migration crisis, which has proved to be a genuine humanitarian crisis in its scale, has, as we know, shown a lack of solidarity and a failure to share the principle of responsibility, which not only jeopardises the political stability of the union but which, unfortunately, is the main reason for the failure of the relocation programme. without the participation of all the member states we will certainly not be able to achieve the objectives set out in the programme by september. i therefore believe that it is essential not only to extend the relocation programme, but to make it compulsory. and i really hope that sanctions mechanisms will not have to be used because it would be really sad for all of us to see this continuing lack of solidarity on the part of european countries. but there must be a european response to the migration crisis. the recent financial support to italy is an important sign of recognition of the work done by my country, but there is also a need to speed up the adoption of the necessary legislative instruments such as the asylum package and the dublin regulation.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me start by expressing my thanks for this very interesting debate. i would like to repeat what ms kyenge said, that there is no solidarity à la carte. we have said it many times; and as ms ska keller said, solidarity is one of the tools and ways for showing unity in practice. madame griesbeck, vous avez, vous aussi, très bien souligné l’aspect moral de la relocalisation. let me say that i share many of your views and i count on your continued support, as i said in my introductory remarks. relocation is often reduced in numbers, but we should not forget that we are talking about people who are in need of protection. our shared duty, moral and political, is to make sure that they get this protection as soon as possible and in a manageable way for the european union. this is the essence of emergency relocation schemes. that is why our focus right now is to make sure that everyone eligible is relocated to all member states before september. member states that have not yet relocated anyone, or have not relocated for more than a year, should make progress immediately. if no action is taken within a month, we will specify our position on making use of our powers under the treaties, and in particular on the opening of infringement procedures: i am very clear on that. let me also say that i understand your concerns and remarks on the deadline and the future, but these relocation schemes have not been set up as an intermediary step in view of the reform of the dublin system: they are an emergency measure. of course, as we very clearly said, member states’ legal obligations do not stop after september 2017: if you have an outstanding bill, you have to pay it. i also took note of your views on the opportunity to revise the scope of the relocation decisions. but, as i said, our priority at the moment is to relocate all migrants in need of protection who are currently eligible. we need to focus on that objective. if all member states actively contribute, this is perfectly possible and feasible – and i count on you to help us make it happen. let me now shift to greek since my compatriots have asked me some questions. αγαπητοί έλληνες ευρωβουλευτές, μου δίνετε την ευκαιρία να πω δυο λόγια στη γλώσσα μας γι’ αυτό το πολύ σημαντικό θέμα για την ελλάδα η οποία βρίσκεται, όπως είπαμε πρωτύτερα, μαζί με την ιταλία στην πρώτη γραμμή με αποτέλεσμα αυτές οι δύο αυτές χώρες να δέχονται την μεγαλύτερη πίεση. για την κατάσταση στην ελλάδα θα ήθελα να τονίσω ότι, εάν τα κράτη μέλη τελικά ανταποκριθούν στις υποχρεώσεις τους, είναι απόλυτα εφικτό, όπως είπα πρωτύτερα, να μετεγκατασταθούν, μέχρι τον σεπτέμβριο, όλοι οι υποψήφιοι που βρίσκονται στην ελλάδα, περίπου 12.400 άτομα. θα ήθελα να τονίσω εδώ ότι η ελλάδα έχει ολοκληρώσει όλες τις διαδικασίες και, εφόσον η καλή αυτή συνεργασία συνεχιστεί, θα πετύχουμε τους στόχους μας. όπως είπα, κάποια κράτη μέλη δεν συνεργάζονται και, στο σημείο αυτό, θα ήθελα να πω ότι η ανοχή και η υπομονή αρχίζουν πλέον να εξαντλούνται. πιστεύω ακράδαντα στην αξία της συνεννόησης, του διαλόγου και της πειθούς. έτσι έπρεπε να ξεκινήσουμε και αυτό κάναμε. τώρα όμως έχουμε φτάσει σε ένα οριακό σημείο. η απόδειξη ότι αυτή η στρατηγική αποφέρει τελικά αποτελέσματα είναι ότι οι ρυθμοί μετεγκατάστασης έχουν αυξηθεί σημαντικά τους τελευταίους μήνες. όμως, όπως είπα στην αρχή, αν δεν υπάρξει συμμόρφωση, το επόμενο βήμα της επιτροπής θα είναι, και να μην έχετε καμία αμφιβολία περί αυτού, να υποστηρίξει πολιτικά, αλλά και νομικά την πολιτική της. όσον αφορά τώρα τη δήλωση ευρωπαϊκής ένωσης – τουρκίας, θα ήθελα να σας πω, επειδή ακούστηκαν κάποια σχόλια πρωτύτερα, ότι λειτουργεί και λειτουργούσε ακόμα και κάτω από πιεστικές και δύσκολες συνθήκες, με σημαντικά αποτελέσματα και, μιας και αναφέρθηκαν κάποιοι συνάδελφοί σας σε αριθμητικά στοιχεία, θέλω να σας πω ότι πριν από περίπου ένα χρόνο και δύο μήνες, σημειώνονταν μέχρι και 12.000 διελεύσεις την ημέρα, ενώ αυτός ο αριθμός έχει πέσει πλέον κατά μέσον όρο στα 50 με 60 άτομα και πρέπει να κρατήσουμε αυτή τη συμφωνία, αυτή τη συνεννόηση, ζωντανή. οι δε επιστροφές, απ’ την άλλη μεριά, προς την τουρκία συνεχίζονται. χθες βρέθηκα στην αθήνα και είχα συνάντηση με τους αρμόδιους υπουργούς της ελληνικής κυβέρνησης και, δεν σας κρύβω, ότι με ικανοποίηση ενημερώθηκα για την επιτάχυνση και αυτών των διαδικασιών. και τέλος, όπως πολύ σωστά επεσήμανε ο κύριος κύρκος: ναι, οι ασυνόδευτοι ανήλικοι αποτελούν πράγματι την προτεραιότητά μας. αυτό το μήνυμα πρέπει να περάσει σε όλα τα κράτη μέλη γιατί, ειδικά από την ιταλία - νομίζω το έθιξαν κάποιοι ιταλοί συνάδελφοί σας - δεν γίνονται αρκετές μετεγκατάστασης ανηλίκων. να σημειώσω τέλος ότι και σ’ αυτό το σημείο υπάρχει πρόοδος. και, σε κάθε περίπτωση, η συζήτηση που διεξάγεται σήμερα εδώ κατέδειξε ότι το ευρωπαϊκό κοινοβούλιο στηρίζει την πολιτική των μετεγκαταστάσεων και τις προσπάθειες της επιτροπής και θα ήθελα, στο σημείο αυτό, να εξάρω και το έργο των ελλήνων ευρωβουλευτών, αλλά και να εκφράσω δημόσια τις ευχαριστίες μου προς το ευρωπαϊκό κοινοβούλιο για τη στήριξη της πολιτικής μας. από την πρώτη κιόλας στιγμή υπήρξατε οι βασικοί υποστηρικτές και τελικά θα κριθεί και από την δική σας συμβολή η επιτυχία της πολιτικής μας η οποία ανταποκρίνεται πλήρως και στο πνεύμα των συνθηκών και στο βαθύτερο ηθικό και πολιτικό περιεχόμενο των αποφάσεων και της πολιτικής που από κοινού έχουμε υιοθετήσει.
in writing. there is no doubt that a comprehensive strategy on migration is needed. to try to stem the crisis, in the summer of 2015, we adopted two emergency decisions to resettle thousands of refugees. the frontline states such as italy, malta and greece have already done their duty in terms of reception. my country has rescued more than 625,000 migrants since the beginning of the exodus. in 2016, the number increased eightfold over the previous three years. it is now up to the other member states to take part in a solution in line with their duty of welcome. four member states are accepting very limited numbers of migrants, while two refuse to participate in the redistribution. the practical application of the principle of solidarity, which is enshrined in the treaties, is crucial! if we fail to respond to this emergency, we will have failed in the primary task of our union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission for this document on globalisation, a process which is in fact the reality in which we live and which must undoubtedly be governed. it is important to understand that when we talk about globalisation, we are increasingly dealing with a world competition based on the capacity of technological innovation to meet the challenges of a linear economy that can no longer cope with the current consumption of the planet's resources and is able to put on the market products and services that can better meet the needs of consumers. in short, to grow again and to continue to guarantee our precious welfare system, we must then position ourselves in the key high-tech sectors. to do this we must focus decisively on investment, fresh resources in research and innovation and help businesses, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, the heart of our system, to renew themselves, and on the other hand, however, put in place social protection policies for those excluded from this process and policies that are able to redistribute the benefits to the whole population. europe has the size and capacity to play a leading role in this scenario if we start taking concrete action now.
in writing. humanity has often experienced forms of cultural and economic interdependence between different societies and cultures operating in very different geographical areas. the globalisation of our time, however, has taken on new characteristics due to exceptional factors such as new telecommunications, the internet and modern means of transport. economic crises, political changes, but also the rapid change of fashions and the spread of new consumer goods have the ability to spread and affect communities in every nation on the globe in an extraordinary short time. from an economic standpoint, globalization has certainly had the great credit of rescuing millions from poverty and misery. it is also true, however, that globalisation has also brought about a less equitable distribution of wealth, as well as serious disruptions in the labour market. i therefore believe that europe has an ambitious task today: to be able to steer the phenomenon of globalisation in order to derive all the benefits possible for citizens and businesses, while at the same time removing the side effects on society.
mr president, thank you. as you can see, we are already building bridges between the european union and the african union. the members of parliament stood up to greet you and to thank you for your speech. now we have to get to work. we must be pragmatic and practical. i think that with mrs mogherini, who is the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, we can do a good job. parliament is strongly committed to this. bridges must be built at the economic, political and transport levels. i have always been in favour of linking the transeuropean transport networks with the trans-african transport networks you are building. we have to work together a lot. i am optimistic, but i must also be very clear. we cannot win the challenge against terrorism and we cannot solve the problem of immigration if europe and africa do not work together. that is why we must strengthen these ties and, as i say to my european friends, we must always look at africa not through european eyes but through african eyes. this is where the friendship between the african union and the european union stands. therefore, you are always welcome in the european parliament. thank you again. (applause) i would like to thank
it is very difficult to talk about fraud in the european union, because what emerges from the annual report and what we wanted to stress in the regi committee is that you cannot really rely on data. there are different legal systems in europe, there is no single case of fraud at community level, and member states have full discretion in communicating the number of fraud cases detected or established. all mechanisms that complicate the picture and expose it to easy instrumentalisation. it is not that the states that report the most fraud are actually the most corrupt, for example, it often simply means that they have a more effective system of control. then there is the distinction between fraud and irregularity. in particular, in the area of cohesion policy, the difficulty of procedures and bureaucracy lead to a high number of irregularities, which are rarely found to be fraudulent. the way forward is therefore the one being pursued by olaf and the national anti-fraud coordination services, the afcos, which are making efforts to ascertain just that.
reducing food waste is a moral issue and also an economic one, because 88 million tonnes of food waste per year equals 173 kilos per european citizen, a huge amount, of which most people are not even aware. unfortunately, waste occurs at all stages of the food chain. this is why we need a coordinated action from producer to consumer, and one that is concerned above all with encouraging donations, because in the world, let us not forget, there would be food for everyone, but not everyone has food. fortunately, there are also practices that encourage donations, and in addition to this, there are experiences that minimize waste, for example through applications that some merchants use at the end of the day to send alerts and apply discounts on fresh products. but given that food waste is the work of households, of private consumption, we must put in place policies that include training and education already in school. it's our responsibility.
finally, the customs report was approved and it was not easy to get to this point, because this is an uncomfortable report, which denounces how some countries do not apply the customs controls that are required, bringing billions of euros of counterfeit or even dangerous products onto the european market. a report which has been opposed from the beginning here in parliament, first by a long conflict of attribution, then by an endless series of parliamentary backlashes and finally, last week, by the request of some parties to postpone the vote until a date to be decided. to all those who have tried to stop us, i want to say that they have failed and i want to thank all those who have supported our fight, the majority in fact. it has not been easy, but the customs report is finally a reality and i now hope that the commission will act on our recommendations without delay.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative, are the dead being counted or weighed? for me, for us, they are simply counted, and their number is unacceptable in the unfortunate land of syria, once the cradle of civilization and of coexistence between religions and ethnicities, today an inferno of blood, extremism and violence. we all know the tragic events in khan shaykhun, the deaths we mourn, the violence we condemn without reservation, calling for an independent un investigation to establish responsibility because those responsible must pay. unfortunately, i realize that not all deaths are mourned by the media in the same way. just yesterday 23 more victims, 12 of them women, were killed by the bombs of the international coalition on the border with iraq. they're adding to the 352 officers since 2014, maybe more, i suspect. there are many forgotten humanitarian and syrian disasters. in deir ez-zor, for almost three years, 120,000 civilians have been trapped under the siege of daesh, and only surviving thanks to the high-altitude airstrikes of the united nations. no one remembers them. if that area was controlled by the militias, i wonder, would there be more attention? while geneva talks, syria is burning and astana is deciding. the official un negotiations seem to be reduced to a mere formality. on the contrary, the four de-escalation zones plan is increasingly being defined in the kazakh capital, a plan whereby the major global and regional powers are confronting each other on the positioning of their respective satellite militias, effectively dividing their respective zones of influence in the troubled syrian chessboard. the truth is that in this very complicated scenario it is in everyone's interest to almost crystallize the conflict, rather than risk that only one of us will win. but the real question is: who will liberate raqqa? can only the valiant ypg kurds, who have for years had to face daesh, take on this huge and terrible task, even with the greatest us aid? we are not going to be silent about the turkish pressure, which continues to regard them as a terrorist organization and is demonstrating its willingness to resort to armed conflict by means of threats that are far from veiled. we must not forget that the european union is a member of the international community, and that it is the only country in the world which has a nuclear arsenal. i also ask you to carefully check the sanctions on dual-use goods, because, as the red crescent also tells us, water pumps and cancer medicines are having enormous difficulties getting to the ground in syria and, as always, it is the people who have to deal with them, not the leaders of any kind or position. fortunately, as you have said, we are not an armed actor and we certainly do not have to become one. i share the analysis, it makes us more credible in the transition and in the reconstruction, but unfortunately it is impossible to implement an effective post-conflict plan as long as the various contenders continue to fight for the remains of a country now in ruins. here we can make a difference, with our geopolitical weight and above all geoeconomic and commercial, towards regional and non-regional actors. this brutal proxy war, because it is a proxy war, must end. the syrian people cannot continue to pay for crimes they did not commit and to mourn the deaths of all who are equal, because no one is more equal than the other.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am convinced that if the european union were not an ngo behaving as such and coming to us to make a philosophical speech, yes, a general and philosophical speech and talking about human rights, gender, women, all very interesting things, but avoids political, diplomatic problems and above all does not tell us what the european union is doing, which would, as was said a little while ago, have enormous potential to influence, if it were anything other than an ngo. you, the high representative, have, for example, overlooked the astana agreements, which, by contrast, are very useful for the transition phase, since they envisage de-escalation zones, i.e. zones of normalization and maintenance of the truce. he didn't tell us anything about the trump-lavrov summit, which was very important because syria was the focus of the conversation, tell us what you think. we want to know more precisely what the intervention, the opinion and the influence of this european union is, if it is not an ngo, as all this suggests. the talks here also include the possibility of creating buffer zones in syria, as tillerson had already proposed. i think these efforts are very important, because they serve to bring about a ceasefire, they are diplomatic actions on which the influence and intervention of the european union could have a concrete and important aspect, if we really want to act towards the transition to a ceasefire and peace, of course with the consequences also for human rights, which are obviously very important. i think we have to take into account the overall picture, the fact that the united states is encouraging a massive troop build-up from jordan, and this is of course very important because the aim is to prevent the isis troops on the march from being replaced by the galaxy of pro-islamic rebel troops. i would also like to say, in conclusion, that there is a problem which i think is being overlooked in these debates, namely that of foreign fighters who are fleeing. isis has a very high opinion of them. they go back to europe and we find them in our house and you say nothing. you are irresponsible!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative, we are in the seventh year of the war in syria, we are facing the worst humanitarian crisis since the second world war. i have seen the deployment of forces on the ground on a map and we are faced with a mosaic of different realities, with ethnic and territorial conflicts that often seem irreconcilable. we know the situation is dramatic, but we cannot give up. we must make every effort to achieve peace and to achieve this we cannot rely on the countries which are now involved in the field, which are only the carriers of their own interests. the only hope is that the work being done today in geneva by the un, by staffan de mistura, will be successful. the only thing we have to do, mrs mogherini, is to support this un effort strongly, and if we do not focus on the objective of peace, our action as europe can only be one: to strengthen the great humanitarian work that has been done so far both inside syria and outside, where millions of refugees are. if, as we all hope, a positive conclusion is reached in geneva, europe will already have clear ideas about what needs to be done. i have read with attention your communication of 14 march, which clearly sets out the six points on which europe must act. on these six points, which you mentioned a moment ago, i think there can only be a strong and convinced support from this parliament, and we hope that this will happen soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative is right to point out the european union's strategy at this delicate moment, because just when everything seems to be yielding to the violence of endless war, when the role of a single regional power seems to be decisive and almost exclusive, the strength of our political and diplomatic initiative is all the more restored. and we have to keep up with that. first of all, to keep the commitments made for humanitarian action. it is crucial and essential to accompany the nine billion we have invested, we have decided to make a commitment for 2017, a continuous and constructive action on the ground; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and we must not forget that the european union is a political force. we must not divide ourselves, either here or in diplomatic action, but consider both as complementary to political action which must lead to a ceasefire on the ground and thus allow the political action necessary for the political reconstruction, the future of syria. i believe that this is the ground on which we must decide our initiative and our action and the action to which you are courageously adhering as the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the war in syria continues to have devastating and tragic consequences. since the beginning of the conflict, some 500,000 people have been killed and more than 5 million have become refugees, a disaster of biblical proportions. but there's no end to the horror. the united states has just announced that a prison in saydnaya, a few kilometres from the syrian capital, has been found, complete with a crematorium to cover up the crimes committed. in this context, the european union's strategy, which includes the prosecution of those responsible for war crimes and humanitarian assistance to the civilian population, should be welcomed. the situation in syria is very serious and at the same time complex, due to the overlapping effects of various tensions. the european union is the world power which undoubtedly has the greatest interest in the stabilization of the entire mediterranean area and for this reason it cannot but play a leading role in the peace process. thank you, high representative mogherini, for your proposals and for your courageous work.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i will start with a ‘good summary’, as i think our colleague marietje schaake put it. first, the european union is united on a syria strategy with clear objectives and indicators for action, and i am glad to see that parliament is no exception in the european unity that has at last been achieved with regard to the direction of our actions to bring the syrian crisis to an end. second, and still quoting our colleague, we can now use all our means of leverage – and there are many in different fields – to support, in the best possible way, the only solution we see, which is a political solution under un auspices. and let us be very clear on what our means of leverage are. first, the humanitarian one. humanitarian aid, i must make clear, is never linked to political considerations. our humanitarian support goes to anyone who needs to be helped, anywhere in syria, with no political consideration whatsoever. some of you referred, for instance, to the world food programme air-dropping food aid. that is happening thanks to european union support, so all the aid you are seeing, all the children you are seeing saved, all the aid, food and medical equipment you see being delivered, is because of european union work. we are not an aid delivery agency but we are the ones that make it possible for the un agencies to do the work on the ground. so our role as a credible humanitarian donor, i believe, gives us the credibility vis-à-vis the syrian civil population that allows us to play a sound political role in support of the un process. the second means of leverage we have is reconstruction. some of you argue, or question whether, it is too early to reflect on reconstruction for the future of syria. some of you say it is too late, some of you say it is too early. the important thing is to have clear ideas of what you need to do at every stage of the story, which unfortunately is a very bad story. there is a powerful element in our starting to look at the possibilities for reconstruction. first, because it offers a positive scenario, a peace dividend, and encourages the various parties to compromise in geneva, because they know that if they agree on a political solution, if the political transition starts, if we go towards a democratic transition with inclusive governance and reconciliation, there will be someone in the international community – starting with the european union but not us alone – who, on the basis of that political agreement, will be ready to work on the rebirth of the country. this scenario encourages the syrians – and they need a horizon of hope – and puts pressure on the syrian parties talking in geneva, because what the syrian people want is to make peace. and if we fuel this request for peace among the syrian population with the perspective of normal life returning to the country, and accountability and reconciliation, then this will also create a little bit more space for the political talks in geneva to take place, entering into the substance of what is going to be the future set up of syria. as i said, it should be a united, democratic, diverse, secular and reconciled country. united – not fragmented or split into areas of influence. the third element that marietje schaake mentioned was our leverage with iran. many of you mentioned russia and the united states, and i will come to that in a moment. i believe that the european union is best positioned in the world probably to talk with one of the main actors in this crisis. now i will not elaborate here on the assessment of the role of iran in the crisis because i think you know that very well, but if you want to make peace you have to talk to those who are making war, and we are among the few that have good, constructive conversations with iran – in some cases trust-based, and always very frank, conversations. do not imagine that we are not doing this. we are, on a daily basis, and this is what we have been doing with the regional initiative. why is it so important, if it is not getting headlines? why have we chosen the regional approach? because it is syrians who have to have the courage for the transition and the compromise and the solution, the political solution. and we need to build the conditions in the region for all the different actors, from saudi arabia to iran, from turkey to egypt, and the neighbouring countries, jordan and lebanon, and others, to be able to live with whatever agreement the syrian parties come to in geneva. otherwise we will start again and again and again. this is exactly the exercise we are engaged in, accompanying the work of the united nations – and, believe me, if we use our leverage and we use our power and we put our leverage and our power at the service of the un mediation, this is not giving up our role. this is serving our interests to the best; this is playing our role to the best because, for the european union, the multilateral un way is the way to resolve conflicts. i have always thought that we were all on the same page on this, and that particularly at this moment it is essential for the european union to help, support and feed into the un multilateral efforts to achieve peace. any agreement found will not be sustained or sustainable if it is not embedded in a multilateral, global un framework. this is the work we are doing. to turn to russia: first of all, some of you asked for my comments on the astana process. i believe it is useful. i believe the agreement that was reached recently on de-escalation zones is good, but we have seen agreements of this kind before and we know very well that the point is the implementation. the point is the real de-escalation of violence on the ground. the point is real humanitarian access in all parts of syria. that is the key. and that is why we are insisting on the need for the guarantors of the astana process to guarantee the implementation of the agreement. they have a mechanism and they have a timetable that is also closely connected with the timetable of the talks in geneva. we encourage the three guarantors of the astana process to work to implement the agreement and also to create the strongest possible link between the military de-escalation efforts agreed in astana and the political intra-syrian talks led by the un in geneva. it is very clear to us, and i believe also to the un security council members – all of them – that the political, intra-syrian negotiations should take place in geneva under the un leadership. some of you also asked me about the position of russia, and the position of the us. let me tell you very clearly. i met foreign minister lavrov, as some of you mentioned, a few weeks ago in moscow, and this work on syria was the main point. we also discussed the situation in ukraine as you can imagine. with rex tillerson the constant cooperation and coordination we have is producing similar approaches that you see in messaging and action. he called me on the day of lavrov’s visit to washington precisely to debrief me about the visit. i can tell you, sometimes we pay less attention than they do to what we are doing, and i find that quite a paradox. last week i was in the un security council, and the us permanent representative to the un, nikki haley, referred to the european union’s key role in the syria crisis, mentioning especially the means of leverage we have in terms of reconstruction and reconciliation. when rex tillerson was in moscow, look at the press conference lavrov held with him: lavrov mentioned the brussels conference and the role of the european union in this. sometimes i have the feeling that we give the work we are doing less recognition than it gets from some of our interlocutors on the global scene. we should be more self-confident about what we are doing, and recognise it a little bit more. our role is not only humanitarian, but it is based on this good humanitarian work we are doing. i shall finish by saying i believe that the region is, and will continue to be, the key. i will be in the region again at the end of this week, in jordan for a regional forum. i see a lot of potential there to try and accompany the various syrian parties in what are, in some cases, local processes that can open small bridges or small spaces for attempts at reconciliation. in europe we know very well that no end of war comes easily. we have lived through wars on our territory that required not only a lot of mediation, a lot of reconciliation, a lot of transitional justice and a lot of accountability, but also a lot of reconstruction – physical reconstruction and also the reconstruction of the social fabric of trust among communities. this will be one of the most challenging efforts we will have to make, to support the possibility of different kinds of syrians feeling at home in the syria of the future and trusting their neighbours, whoever they are. we will move now to another debate that certainly touches on some of these issues, but i think that the european union will also have to play the card, when the time comes, of reconstructing – or accompanying the syrians as they try to reconstruct – the social fabric, and as they manage, we hope, to give rebirth to their country in a united manner.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of christians in the middle east [2017/2686 ((rsp) ].
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, on palm sunday, as you well remember, two coptic churches were attacked in egypt as worshippers gathered for mass. forty-five people were killed and hundreds were wounded. daesh terrorists claimed responsibility for the attack, because in their minds there is no room for the peaceful coexistence of different faiths. i will start with just one of the terrible attacks on christians in the middle east and mention the response that this madness provoked, which was one of the best responses i have ever seen to one of these attacks. just a week later, on easter sunday in jordan, tens of muslim youths stood guard to protect churches and christian believers to make sure that they could celebrate their holiest festivity in peace and respect. i believe that these young people of muslim faith, these young jordanians, are daesh’s worst nightmare. they show the real face of the middle east and they honour hundreds of years of peaceful coexistence of different religious faiths in the middle east. you will remember well the message that his majesty the king of jordan delivered in this very chamber exactly along these lines. when pope francis embarked on his historic visit to egypt last month, he described christians, muslims and people of all faiths as fellow travellers. for thousands of years people of different religions have been fellow travellers in the middle east, in europe and in the rest of the word. at a time when freedom of religion or belief is coming under attack in many parts of our world, we have a duty first of all to preserve this diversity here in europe as well. religious or ethnic groups – christians and others – are being forced to flee from lands they have inhabited for centuries. we can, and must, preserve the space for people of different backgrounds to be fellow travellers, sharing their land and their lives. christianity was born in the middle east. it belongs to the middle east. yet we know that entire christian communities have been forced to leave their home countries and their region. the phenomenon is not new, but what is new is the trend that is now more worrying than ever. this is not only causing great human suffering to christians as well as to many other minorities in the region but, if the middle east loses its incredible diversity – that is a problem in itself – it would also lose its greatest richness. for this reason, the european union is engaged on a daily basis to protect all minorities and every person’s human rights with concrete actions in several fields. i will mention a few of them. first, we systematically raise freedom of religion and belief at different levels of our political dialogues, including in our human rights dialogues with countries in the middle east. together with a number of partner countries, we have developed what we call our partnership priorities in order to promote common interests. the protection of human rights is always part of our own priorities. in the second field of action we always condemn violence against religious or belief minorities with public statements and with private demarches. public advocacy is not always sufficient, but it reminds all these community groups that they are not alone in this struggle. in the third field of action we work to ensure that freedom of religion and belief remains prominently on the global agenda and specifically on the un agenda, featuring a strong human rights approach. in the fourth field of action the eu special representative, stavros lambrinidis, is doing an amazing job and keeps raising these issues in all his official visits and dialogues – most recently to egypt, just to mention one country. in may 2016, as a follow-up to the european parliament’s resolution on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by daesh, we appointed mr figel' as the first special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the european union. in the fifth field of action we are seeking the broadest engagement of relevant regional actors and international organisations. preserving diversity is, first and foremost, a middle eastern interest, so we will not stop working to protect all minorities. but we are not alone in this task and we look for cooperation with our partners. sixth, we are providing very concrete financial support to local communities and minorities through the european instrument for democracy and human rights. the 2016 global call for proposals addressed the rights of persons belonging to minorities, and the new call on freedom of religion or belief will be launched in 2017, aiming at supporting local and international civil society organisations in promoting mutual tolerance and understanding. we are also providing support to christians in countries where they are facing a precarious situation. in iraq, for example, we are making sure that our projects for stabilisation also deliver on the needs of christian communities. last, but certainly not least, we are fighting terrorism through security cooperation, with our work to end the conflicts in our region, and by addressing the social, economic and cultural roots of radicalisation. in this work we also have a duty to get the narrative right and also to represent the best face of the middle east: the face of diversity, the face of those muslim young people protecting christian churches. we must give voice, if i can quote pope francis in italian:..."non solo alla inciviltà del conflitto, ma anche alla civiltà dell'incontro". the narrative is important: to dismantle the narrative of those who believe that there is no space for living together either in the middle east or elsewhere. even in syria – we were discussing this a few minutes ago – in the middle of the most violent conflict of our times, we hear stories of christian and muslim neighbours helping each other to make it through the war. the different religious groups and minorities – identities, groups – in syria will have the major responsibility of trying to bridge the differences, the hate, and the difficulty of starting to live together again once the conflict is over. there is still room for hope. a future of diversity for the middle east is possible, and we believe that this is work which we can do together with our partners, both globally and in the region. that is the commitment of our european union: protecting and offering the perspective of diversity and unity.
the presidency's services inform me that we are very much behind on the timetable, that there will be five more after this debate and that it is therefore not possible to use the blue cards for this debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president pence of the united states, speaking to an evangelical association, condemned isis for genocide against christians and said that "it is time for the world to call them by their name" and quoted trump, who calls them by their name, "radical islamic terrorists". now, a question naturally arises: why is it that the highest officials, starting with the high representative, do not even have the courage to call these "genocidal" people by name? i hope that in the reply, if there has been any negligence or omission, the high representative will correct this serious error. we must have the courage to call out the perpetrators of this genocide, in pieces, because it is something that is happening before our eyes, something that affects our brothers in blood and also in religion. this morning we welcomed with great salamelekhs a high official of the african union, and yet 70 per cent of the christians killed are not in the middle east, they are in africa, but no one, after so many salamelekhs, has felt it necessary to call the attention of this high african political authority. we need more courage, gentlemen of the european union!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the western world seems to have become accustomed to the persecution of christians in the middle east, as if it were an inevitable tragedy that can only be accepted. many of the ancient christian communities are back in the light, driven from their homes by decades of war, rampant poverty, economic and political instability, and persecution. the problem, however, is not limited to christians. as pope francis has said, so many innocent people are suffering, whether christians, muslims or members of minorities such as the yazidis. the subject is broader and concerns religious intolerance, which makes no difference to belief when it comes to fundamentalism. this intolerance must be tackled through dialogue and reconciliation in order to build a future of respect, security and peace, free from all forms of war. but we cannot just denounce as we are doing today, we must take responsibility for breaking the veil of resignation in the face of the persecution that affects us all, as citizens of the world and as europeans, even before as christians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as many have mentioned, dadaab was established as far back as 1991 as a temporary solution for those seeking refuge from persecution, violence and instability in the east african region, including the civil war in somalia. it's the largest refugee camp in the world, according to the un, with 245,000 people, 60 percent of whom are under 18, with no education or jobs. unfortunately, the issue of somali refugees in dadaab has become the subject of an election campaign by president kenyatta, under the slogan of fighting terrorism. we have, of course, welcomed and accepted the judgment of the nairobi high court that this decision to close the dadaab camp is nothing, but unfortunately the government has also appealed and cannot, in our view, simply tell hundreds of thousands of people to return to the war, hunger and extreme poverty from which they fled. we must remember that the un refugee convention prohibits return to areas where their lives and freedom are threatened, and this is certainly the case in somalia, which is suffering from drought, famine, cholera and violence. good practices to be copied are those of uganda with its "self-reliance" strategy, where refugees can work and move freely. these are good practices to be copied, not the indiscriminate closure carried out by the current government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are often concerned, again in this morning's debate on relocation, about how to deal with and welcome refugees and asylum seekers fleeing their lands ravaged by conflict and the poverty that ensues. we are only concerned about it, but we are doing almost nothing to have a common european immigration policy. at the same time, we find it difficult to see that the humanitarian crisis of refugees is not just a phenomenon on the doorstep of europe and the mediterranean area, but a global situation. there are millions of refugees and displaced persons outside europe that we cannot ignore. the dadaab refugee camp is a clear example of what we are talking about and is also a test bed for us, commissioner, of our capacity to intervene and to accompany the agreement between kenya, somalia and the unhcr. what should guide us in this european action? two guidelines which i consider to be fundamental: the first concerns the safeguarding of the principle of international humanitarian law. secondly, we need a different approach to cooperation policy which is able to deal with the conditions of conflict and poverty. failure to do so will mean paying interest on our absence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the dadaab refugee camp, the largest in the world, is celebrating its 26th anniversary this year. a camp that was supposed to provide temporary accommodation, especially for somali refugees, has instead become a permanent ghetto of 260 000 people. at least two generations have been born and raised in what is a symbol of the social misery of refugees in africa, of the failure of development and pacification policies in that area and of the inability, also, to manage the global phenomenon of migration. ethiopians, eritreans, sudanese, south sudanese, somalis, they are the unrighteous inhabitants of this metropolis, forced to live a life of "no life", because they are deprived of a future and a hope. on their heads the authorities and the international community are making decisions that the supreme court itself has defined as an act of mass persecution, illegal and therefore unconstitutional. it is true that dadaab is a hub of misery, lawlessness and abuse, especially against women, children and vulnerable groups. however, it is difficult to predict the fate of these refugees if they suddenly find themselves without a roof. it is a collective responsibility to end the political instability in the region, to finally create the conditions for sustainable development and to rethink our migration policies, knowing that by embracing the challenges but also the opportunities, without peace and stability and without a holistic approach to migration, there will be no future for any refugee either in a camp or in their home countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on thursday an italian human rights defender, yuri guaiana, was released from prison after being arrested by the russian authorities the day before while delivering a petition against the treatment of homosexuals in chechnya. what is happening in this region of russia, namely the forced arrest, imprisonment and torture of homosexuals, is an unacceptable violation of multiple human rights. not only are the people involved not guaranteed equal treatment with any other citizen, but we are also witnessing an emergency that violates the freedom of these people, subjecting them to violence and torture just because of their sexual orientation. in chechnya the situation is made all the more worrying by the existence of a real organisational and repressive apparatus, including infrastructure and staff, aimed at identifying, arresting and torturing persons suspected of being homosexuals. the ultimate goal of this apparatus is the conversion of prisoners. i do not know whether this is fully appreciated, but there is no doubt that the international community has not reacted adequately. the actor involved is not an easy interlocutor, but we must definitely report this to avoid future degeneration. in conclusion, however, i would also like to draw attention to the guidelines proposed by the council. i believe that the document calls for an examination of conscience, for action also and above all within the european union. we are denouncing an extreme case like that of chechnya, which is right and proper to denounce, but even within our borders, people from the lgbti community are subject to discrimination that too often find no justification related to culture, tradition and religion. we must be consistent on this point too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that one of the most serious aspects of this matter is the statements by the chechen government that there are no homosexuals, no gay people, on its territory. i think that this statement alone, beyond the need to investigate exactly what the extent of discrimination, if not torture, that has been reported, speaks for itself of a culture based on the denial of recognition of lgbtqi people. i think it is absolutely incumbent on us not only to speak out, as we will do tomorrow through the adoption of a resolution, but also to act within the european union so that no political, cultural, material and symbolic denial of lgbtqi rights is possible any more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, "...you can resist the rubber hose, you can bite your hands until they bleed, but then you can do it. electricity is another thing, you see the crank start to turn and you know it's coming, and when it comes your body starts to shake. you know what it is because you've been there before, but you can't tell what's going on anymore. you scream in pain, your throat bursts, you feel yourself falling. and then it starts again. "this is the testimony of andrej, a chechen boy, arrested and tortured in chechnya like hundreds of others. chechnya is a free port where ramzan kadyrov's reign of terror is in force, untouchable because it is useful to putin and putin's russia, where a few days ago four militants, including a european, were arrested. kadyrov is untouchable and therefore with life and death power over the people of chechnya, especially, it seems, over the gay people, tortured, abused, threatened and then left to their families to finish the job; an honor killing, they say, they call it, it's 2017. mr president, i think that these facts raise some questions about who we are and what we want to do. what is europe if it is not outraged by what is happening a few kilometres away from us? what is europe if it does not stand up for all people, especially those who are discriminated against, who must still feel that their lives are in danger? what is europe if it does not defend life? i believe that europe is now facing a crossroads: to turn its head the other way or to use all its power to make russia and chechnya face up to their responsibilities. we can no longer have anything to do with countries that do not respect human rights. you see, mr president, i believe that to tolerate violence against religious minorities, to tolerate the violations suffered by women in many parts of the world, to tolerate migrants dying at sea and gays being tortured in chechnya, to tolerate all this is an attack on the very idea of europe and the attacks must be met with firmness and determination.
i want to thank all those who took part in this debate, because there was one clear voice condemning the situation in chechnya, condemning the situation of sexual minorities, people who are not only discriminated against, but who are at this moment threatened with their lives and health. i'm also glad the commissioner brought this up. we should be addressing specific issues. it's good that there is a diplomatic offensive from the eu, and i'm very skeptical that the cynical putin regime will actually investigate something and actually change the situation of homosexuals in russia and specifically in chechnya. because i think it's right that it says that we should give these people visas, we should give them an open arms, we should allow them to get asylum, because it's clear that they meet the international legal conditions for asylum in eu countries, and also support independent journalists who report on these things in russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the news coming from chechnya and russia is very serious. we are talking about systematic torture and violence, the illegal detention of hundreds of gay men or alleged gay men, we are talking about actual executions, about re-education camps. this is all medieval, it takes us back to the darkest periods of human history, and finally, the arrest of several activists in moscow, including yuri guaiana. the european institutions and the member states are intervening to protect the lgbti community with all the tools at their disposal, visas and even those of investigation, pressure on the russian authorities to stop this horror. tomorrow is the international day against homotransphobia, and things like this show how much we need it. we have heard that in italy too, on the occasion of the reggio emilia pride, someone will organize a "reparation" procession. it is this hatred that must be repaired, not free and equal love. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a battle for all of us because it concerns the fundamental rights of the people who have been the foundation of our union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation which has been reported to us from chechnya is extremely serious and worrying. the investigation that emerged from the novaya gazeta complaints has brought to light very serious allegations, including the terrible conditions of detention of homosexual persons, torture, humiliation, general beatings, repeatedly perpetrated, and there is even talk of real cases of murder, not to mention persecution and pressure even against their family members, who are equally in danger if they do not act to protect "honor". the words of the spokesman for ramzan kadyrov, the president of chechnya, and those of kheda saratova, a member of the chechen human rights council, are unacceptable from any point of view, unworthy of anyone holding an elected office, of anyone holding a government office. we demand the full, total commitment of the russian authorities to shed light on what is happening and full and convinced action to support and protect the victims, as well as their families who must be relocated and placed in a safe environment. that is the minimum that we as the european union must demand.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, moldova remains one of the poorest and most corrupt countries in europe. you all know about the famous anti-government protests between 2000 and 2015 that followed the banking scandal, which saw the loss of a billion dollars by three of moldova's largest banks, dubbed by some as the "theft of the century". this very strong dissatisfaction with the government has led to a mixed reaction, with a reduction in freedom of expression, the attack on the opposition and, in some ways, a suppression of those voices that instead demand greater transparency and freedom. in april 2017, the government even adopted a new law in its first reading that would allow the use of armed forces to counter public protests when deemed necessary. pending the venice commission's opinion on the future electoral law, we must once again denounce the great power in the hands of the oligarch plahotniuc, who is in fact able to direct, some say to control, the government, the judicial system, the anti-corruption bodies and the media. a country almost held hostage. we, as moldova's first and foremost partner, must use the instruments in our power to react. the 100 million euro in aid must be a political lever which cannot be used unless there is a serious commitment to fight corruption and unless there is a change of pace in the fight against it. we can't pay on trust.
tomorrow this parliament will vote against the persecution of sexual minorities in chechnya. i call on the responsible authorities to stop this violence, to release those who are still illegally detained and protect potential victims. i urge them to honour their international commitments on respect for fundamental freedoms and the fight against discrimination. today is international day against lgbti discrimination. on this day we must reaffirm our strong commitment to combat all forms of discrimination in the world, including those based on sexual orientation.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 29 april 2017 [2017/2628(rsp) ].
the rapid adoption of the negotiating guidelines for the withdrawal of the united kingdom is a very important achievement, a sign of unity to which this parliament is proud to have contributed by its resolution and by its significant involvement in the work leading to the drafting of the final text. whoever thought we'd split up, they miscalculated. the european union now has a clear, balanced and fair line on brexit and an excellent negotiator whom we strongly support. we want a fair agreement, one which protects the interests of the citizens, which respects the principles and obligations deriving from our treaties and which allows us to have the united kingdom as our close partner in the future, although of course a non-member will never be able to enjoy the same benefits as a member state. the best use of the limited time available is essential to achieve these results and the negotiating sequence set out in the guidelines is therefore essential. firstly, to ensure an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom by making substantial and sufficient progress on certain key issues as soon as possible. we know them well: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on citizens, which is the number one priority, we appreciate the very clear wording of the guidelines and the proposal for a directive. we are talking about all british and european citizens who live and have lived, who work and have worked in the united kingdom or in the union. we are talking about a set of interrelated rights, including social security, freedom of movement for workers and the recognition of professional qualifications. we are talking about rights which must be guaranteed forever to those who are entitled to them, with full reciprocity, without discrimination and under the jurisdiction of the european court of justice. our parliament is determined that no discussion on future relations with the united kingdom can begin, no agreement can be approved if these conditions are not met. and we are convinced and confident that whatever government emerges from the elections, on the basis of these principles, a constructive and efficient negotiation can begin, providing certainty for european citizens and businesses and defining a positive framework for future relations between the european union and the united kingdom. the european parliament and our group are ready to make an active contribution to this achievement and, above all, to seize the great opportunity we have to work together for a revival of the union. we are not satisfied, we are proud of the state of the european union but we are not satisfied, we want the commission and the member states to be courageous and to make significant steps forward on the path that this parliament has helped to identify. more investment, more reforms, more solidarity, more democracy. we are ready for an ambitious journey and we ask everyone to do their part.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes, especially in politics, words have their weight and those spoken in recent weeks, if followed by action, would be a real rock on the relations between the european union and britain. the brexit negotiations cannot be marked by a spirit of revenge and retribution against the united kingdom and its citizens, who are preparing to leave the european union but not to leave europe. whatever the opinions in this house, we must be clear and unanimous on one point. it is in the interest of both parties to reach a fair and mutually beneficial agreement. our citizens must be our priority, it is their rights that we must reach agreement on as soon as possible and then look at the fundamental issues such as trade agreements, because what is at stake is not simply the regulation of a relationship between the european union and a future third country, but much more. at stake are issues that directly affect jobs, lives, families, the safety of people in an era marked by diverse and enduring terrorist threats. we must always keep that in mind. it's not going to be a brexit driven by anger that benefits both sides. brexit is not a punishment, it should be based on creating a relationship with the united kingdom that allows us to re-evaluate how the european union works, that allows us to understand why british citizens have felt better off outside the european union than inside it. despite the results of the elections, and i also want to say the things i have heard this morning, which may have given many in this house a sigh of relief, let us ask ourselves why millions of british citizens first, dutch and french citizens later, but not only, felt the need to vote for parties or causes that are so markedly anti-european. that is the question we should be asking ourselves in this house. it is therefore time to look in the mirror, let us not make the mistake of telling ourselves that people want us to continue on this path, to continue in this way, people want a change of direction and concrete answers. the issue then is to take the opportunity of the negotiations between london and brussels to discuss ourselves, the fate of the european union, and to do this, as a group of conservatives and reformists, we have long advocated the need to revise the treaties, that is to say to establish new rules of the game to make this union more open and flexible. we now read that french president macron and german chancellor merkel want to change the treaties, but that is not enough. we must say in what direction the treaties must be changed. if the direction is 'less europe, more flexibility, more fiscal competition, more respect for national parliaments', then the direction is right. if, on the other hand, the direction is once again, as we fear, that of 'more europe without regard, more rigidity, more fiscal homogeneity, more centralistic impositions from brussels', then the situation will worsen. let's put aside feelings of rejection and self-preservation and see how we can really change, how we can come out of brexit stronger and more efficient and with renewed confidence, especially from our citizens. that is the work and the commitment that we as a group of conservatives and reformists will carry forward.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would have liked to see the united kingdom remain within the european union, but the people have decided and that must be respected. but now it is important that we stick together, because we will have to fight side by side, the european union and the united kingdom, all the challenges we face, from economic to terrorism. so it is good that the four million people who, as president tusk has reminded us, will suffer the consequences of brexit on both sides, are in the first place, but we must stand by all citizens, always, and that is why we must go back to the roots of the european union and therefore, as we negotiate brexit, we must renew the pact. the pact was for peace, for prosperity, for solidarity. today, we see too much, too much selfishness. we live these days as if they were everyday life, but we must be aware that we are living in a historical moment and that the decisions we make today will have a long-term impact, so it really takes courage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all sorry about brexit, but we must be realistic, remain lucid and decide in the best interests of the common good. the fate of the european union is at stake, as is that of the united kingdom. the special interests of the member states cannot prevail at any stage of the negotiations and to that end it is good that they are conducted under the banner of transparency and as a single package. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the four freedoms of the single market are indivisible and no easy choices are permissible. a country outside the union which does not respect its obligations cannot have the same rights and enjoy the same benefits as the member states. the negotiations may also establish transitional arrangements, but prolonging legal uncertainty beyond measure will not serve the interests of the union, which, although it has no desire for revenge, must first of all return to giving a precise direction to its political action.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
i am very pleased to see that the g7 is taking place in my country, italy, this year, and i cannot help but think of the g8 a few years ago, when carlo giuliani was killed in the name of the security of the elderly. this year the g7 was held at the ecofin ministers' meeting in my city of bari, a city that has been completely desertified and militarized, again in the name of the security of the big guys, turned into a red zone. the council representative was talking to us about migrants before. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the seven great powers of the world are always safe. i would therefore like to ask whether we cannot discuss, within the framework of this g7, a concrete reduction in military spending, since we are accustomed to discussing, in this assembly, a stability pact, but military spending is always a possible strain on the stability pact. i would also like to ask, very briefly, whether we should continue to have a one-sided reading on the question of sanctions against russia or whether we can question the european union's complicity with the pro-fascist government of poroshenko.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the theme of this italian g7 presidency is to build the foundations of renewed confidence. judging by the leaders who will be speaking, i would say that before asking for renewal they should at least show that they deserve our trust. it rests on three pillars, one is climate change, there is talk of ambitious action to implement the cop21 in paris, with trump even wanting to disavow that little achieved and italy, president, with the highest number of deaths in europe due to air pollution, as many as 84 000 in 2012, and with catastrophic sites such as taranto and civitavecchia. it's about economic and social sustainability and reducing inequality and how they want to achieve that, you told us earlier, with wild free trade. inequalities are growing, while the energy transition and the fight against tax evasion remain a mirage. finally, innovation towards the revolution in manufacturing, with italy, my country, the last european country in the g7 to invest in this sector. in short, the italian government of prime minister gentiloni should not just be shouting slogans, but should show that it has the skills and the will to set an example by doing its homework. this is how they gain confidence and credibility, not least in order not to leave the whole union in the hands of france and germany.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that europe is governed by incompetence, bad faith and hypocrisy. you speak of jobs when, with your rules and your currency, you have brought 35 million unemployed people into europe. you talk about trade and renew sanctions against russia that are costing our economy billions of euros in lost exports. you talk about rights and you think you can remove the tariffs that protect our companies from unfair chinese competition: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the use of the financial instruments. you talk about fighting terrorism and you do not lift a finger to stop the landings of thousands and thousands of fake refugees and real criminals, who the day before yesterday were wandering, for example, through the streets of modena demanding money, documents, housing and work. you know, commissioners, how many italians and europeans would like money, documents, housing and jobs, but are refugees in their own homes. talk about rights, today is the international day against sexual discrimination, why do business with saudi arabia, iran, pakistan, nigeria, where homosexuality is punishable by death. what hypocrisy, commissioners! you come to the g7 in sicily, which has 50 per cent youth unemployment, you come to a sicily where you have replaced agriculture and fishing with the economy of landings and clandestine activity. i do not know how much you will cost, i do not know what you will eat well, i do not know where you will sleep, certainly not in some reception centre, i know for sure that we think, as a league in the future, of a g7 of the peoples and not of the powerful. you brought home a result. no one will be landing in sicily for a week. but how? i, as a league, have been calling for years for a naval blockade, a blockade of departures and landings and deaths, and you tell me that this cannot be done, that you cannot block landings and that you cannot control the borders, and now to defend the asses of some powerful people for a week no one lands? shame on you!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in sicily, my region, youth unemployment is close to 60%, the infrastructure is ridiculous, there are railways that are a hundred years old, motorway bridges that have fallen, the land, agriculture and fisheries are systematically plundered by multinationals, there is mass emigration, there is poverty and social exclusion and in such a context the great men of the world have decided to build a golden cage in taormina, spending 40 million euros of public money, 10 of which only for meetings, creating inconvenience for the population and doing a 'dust under the carpet' operation, in fact also blocking landings for a period of time. now, these gentlemen probably just get together to decide how to do more damage to our planet, and they do it by cutting down centuries-old olive trees, creating another landing strip for helicopters to get comfortable, a useless landing strip. i say that if they wanted to solve a problem they should travel by train from trapani to pozzallo, they should meet at the zen in palermo or the librino in catania, or they should go to the muos in nissemi.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the g7 is meeting in italy and i am very proud that my country is hosting it in an unstable world context, with growing tensions but also with interesting signs, such as china's proposal for a new silk road, which can create new international cooperation in addition to trade. the leaders today know that they represent only a fraction of the political and economic power on the planet, because today the g20 is the largest and most representative consensus, but the specific responsibility of the g7 of the european union is precisely to represent the most developed democracies, and so we must be aware that that leadership, which is no longer taken for granted, which is no longer based on the strength of numbers, today must be based on the strength of our values, on multilateralism, on openness, on respect for international law, for which unilateral actions or offensive attacks are not acceptable to the international community. but that leadership also has to be entrusted to the rules, as many of my colleagues have said, for a transnational transparent tax, so that there is a redistribution issue, social justice, and these new rules are found. the european union is one of the main actors. in the absence of any clear plan, in the uncertainty of the prospects and the commitment of the major countries and powers, it is europe that must now play this role.
in writing. the mission of the forthcoming g7 in taormina, namely to build the foundations of renewed public confidence in governments, which - as the italian presidency says - are increasingly sceptical of their ability to solve everyday problems, including security, environmental sustainability and economic well-being, is in itself a testament to the failure of a verticalistic, elitist and self-referential approach to solving the problems of the whole world. a model that has been going on for years and that has not been able to spare the whole world from wars, terrorism, economic crises and pollution. i believe that the time has come to imagine a new, truly multilateral, inclusive, bottom-up approach to effectively and transparently tackle the problems of globalisation, whose harmful effects on ordinary citizens are caused by the overpowering power of a few powerful people, who are obviously concerned that they can no longer be seen as credible in the eyes of the people.
i now have the great honour and pleasure of welcoming the secretary-general of the united nations, mr antónio guterres. your appointment is historic. you are the first citizen of the european union to hold this post. our two organisations were born out of the ashes of the second world war and were built on the same values, with the same objective: to promote peace and prosperity through multilateral cooperation. today, more than ever, we must work together to meet the expectations of our citizens and deliver tangible results. we must face common global challenges: conflict, terrorism and radicalisation, managing migration flows, but also climate change, poverty and unemployment. our citizens expect a europe that is more present and more effective on the world stage. we cannot continue to stand by helplessly and watch the bombings in syria, the famine in africa, the deaths of thousands in the desert and the mediterranean, the trafficking of women and children, the increasing violation of fundamental rights, the retreat of democracy in some countries, including venezuela and turkey, or the persecution of religious minorities. yesterday we spoke about africa with the president of the african union commission, mr moussa faki mahamat. i would like to reiterate that africa is a priority for the european union. this is why trilateral cooperation between the un, the european union and the african union, including on prevention and rapid response to crises and conflicts, needs to be strengthened. we must find together political solutions to the conflicts in syria, libya and yemen and to deal with daesh. together, we must uphold human dignity and freedom, empower new generations and implement the 2030 agenda for sustainable development to achieve the sustainable development goals. mr secretary-general, in the face of these many challenges, you can count on the support of this parliament for your programme, which is also ours.
secretary-general, dear friend antónio, thank you very much for your speech, thank you for your engagement in favour of human rights, and also as a european. we are proud to be at the centre of the debate as the european parliament in defence of human rights and of the minorities in the world. we are ready for strong cooperation with you, with your organisation. thank you very much. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to intervene in this topical debate on the subject of the powers and control of the european central bank. as we all know, the treaty has bestowed independence upon the european central bank to conduct its monetary policy and to pursue its primary objective of maintaining price stability in the euro area as a whole. international experience has indeed shown that monetary policy tends to be more effective in supporting a stable price level when it is shielded from short-term political influence. the presidency believes that the accountability of the european central bank for its monetary policy is commensurate with its independence and can be inferred from the treaty. when it comes to the ecb’s accountability for its banking supervision tasks, this is specified in the regulation on the single supervisory mechanism. in this context, the presidency sees no reason to question whether the ecb adheres to the accountability obligations towards the eu legislators. similarly the presidency does not have grounds to doubt that the ecb acts within its mandate. against this background, the council has not debated the subject of the powers and control of the european central bank and the issue does not feature on any upcoming council agendas. however, i am grateful for your invitation to attend and i look forward to hearing your views – or more views – during this debate.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, you are having a debate today about the powers and accountability of the european central bank. on behalf of the commission, i would like to limit myself to a very few remarks on this matter. the ecb and the national central banks are independent when exercising the powers and carrying out the tasks and duties conferred upon them by the treaty. the principle of central bank independence is enshrined in the treaty itself. it is put there to protect the ecb and the national central banks in pursuing their primary mandate of fulfilling their price stability objective and thus creating the foundation for a healthy and stable european economy. independence and accountability are of course intertwined. the ecb presents to parliament an annual report on its activities and you hold a general debate on that basis. the quarterly monetary dialogues you organise with the ecb president provide a further forum for in—depth discussion. i understand you have regularly made use of this possibility over the past year. the commission has full trust in the ecb to exercise its mandates under the treaty. we welcome the constructive engagement that has developed between the european parliament and the ecb over the past years.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is no surprise that mr starbatty’s positions are in a minority in this house because they are factually weak and wrong. a broad majority of this house supports the ecb, its independence and its policies because the ecb is the main pillar of emu and has been a fundamental anchor of its stability and integrity. that such a great responsibility would fall on the shoulders of the ecb was unavoidable, taking into account the peculiar construction of emu, with the explosive components of monetary policy, coordination competence on economic policy, and a small budget for the single market but not for the single currency. with the soaring debt crisis these responsibilities have been successfully honoured in full compliance with the task and the powers conferred by the treaties and the protocol in order to achieve the primary objective of maintaining price stability and to support the general economic policies of the union, which of course include the integrity of the emu. the treaties are crystal clear. in order to achieve its objectives, the ecb and national central banks can conduct open market and credit operations. so it is not surprising that the omt programme has been declared by the court of justice fully compatible with eu law. in the post-crisis phase of low growth and low interest rates, and with the additional negative impact of financial fragmentation on proper monetary policy transmission, other unconventional policy tools have proven to be necessary to meet the inflation objective. i do not need to recall them, but is important to underline that, without quantitative easing (qe), europe would have fallen into deflation. qe has been – and is – an economic success and for all stakeholders the potential negative side effects have clearly been outpaced by the positive ones. moreover, economic data clearly show that the necessary sustained adjustment in the path of inflation has not yet materialised. enhanced non-standard monetary policy measures are to continue until that time. the ecb is, and has to be, fully independent. nevertheless, we welcome and appreciate the accountability framework vis—à-vis the european parliament and the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the improvements in transparency of the ecb’s monetary policy. as far as the ssm is concerned, a stronger accountability framework is appropriate and we are in line with our interinstitutional agreement to fulfil our democratic role. it is evident that the current emu construction, while it is not unsustainable, is sub-optimal and we need to complete it. we cannot rely only on common monetary policy and national fiscal and economic policies. instead of contesting the excellent job of the ecb, it would be good if political groups and member states would contribute to providing the instruments and policies that we need in order to face our current challenges.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the independence of the central bank, that is to say, the fact that the executive does not have control over the money supply, is a concept which, in my view, is incompatible with democracy. to put the power to create money in the hands of an unelected authority outside any democratic control, to let it pursue a senseless goal like inflation targeting, a tool that has nothing to do with price dynamics, that is, the money supply, is insane and undemocratic. the rhetoric that has been supporting this undemocratic system for decades is based on an assumption that the crisis has refuted, that printing money creates inflation. the need to keep money creation out of the hands of politicians would arise from this, from the need to avoid that inflation which everyone now wants instead. i do not know if anyone has noticed that for some time now draghi has been printing and pouring billions of euros into the eurozone system, and what has been the result? the deflation. inflation is not mechanically dependent on printed money, but it is dependent on the demand for goods, on money spent, and in a depression like the one we are experiencing now a government can be sure that printed money is spent only if it spends it itself. without monetary financing of expenditure, which the treaties and the independence of the central bank prevent, it will be impossible to revive the economies of the eurozone countries. however, in this union of equal states, where one is more equal than the others, the powers of the state are independent but one, the power of the central bank, is more independent than the others and is therefore the one who actually commands, making and breaking puppet governments at will. if a politician talks to you about democracy without rejecting this dogma, he is lying to you. the central point for restoring a glimmer of democracy is to abolish this aberration and to take this power out of the hands of unelected bureaucrats.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that mr starbatty and his delegation have scheduled this debate, because it is essential that we in this house talk about the euro, talk about a currency which is at the moment creating enormous imbalances between the countries which have adopted it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, unfortunately, until there is a common economic and monetary policy, there will never be a solution to this question. the problem is that, while attempts are being made to create this hypothetical and very utopian construction, there are shocks and i thank the german delegation, which is one of the few delegations in this parliament, if not the only one, that admits that germany is accumulating a large trade surplus, partly because of a euro which is undervalued for its own economy. now, are we going to get to the bottom of this? can we work something out? all right, we give countries that are in economic need and that have to make investment policies, from the countries in surplus, a share of what they are earning. perhaps this will give a little more oxygen to some countries which are now suffering from an overvalued currency for their own economy. moreover, if macron and mrs merkel say that the treaties can be revised, fine, let us revise them, and let us revise them for what are the economic constraints, because it is not possible that at this moment when public investment is needed there is no possibility of reviving the economy. i conclude by saying that monetary policy alone will never solve the problems of 19 countries with different needs and that is the issue that must be the focus of this parliament and the political debate in the coming months.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, an independent central bank is key for credible monetary policy. independence goes hand in hand with clear accountability arrangements and independence does not exclude lively discussion about how the ecb carries out the tasks and duties conferred upon it by the treaty. today’s topical debate was part of this discussion. i am sure your monetary dialogues with the ecb president will provide many opportunities to discuss your views directly with president draghi also.
in writing. the issue of the distance between citizens and european institutions involves its institutional architecture, which is based on the euro and european economic governance. it does not seem that the shortcomings of such governance - which i have repeatedly stressed in this house in terms of the necessary implementation of transparency in tax treatment - have been addressed either by the 2014 investment plan for europe or by the ecb's quantitative easing, which has also proved to be an extraordinary instrument for rebalancing fundamentals. but the question is the centrality of the lack of a genuine european fiscal and anticyclical policy. we must abandon the passive logic of merely monitoring the compliance of national budgetary policies with the rules of the fiscal compact and we must boldly tackle the question of the establishment, with active logic, of an anti-cyclical fiscal policy for the eurozone. in my view, this change must have two privileged and irreplaceable players: the ecb and the european parliament, to ensure sound intervention but also adequate democratic accountability and ownership to citizens of the governance of the euro.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. today europe is increasingly moving towards citizens' mobility and therefore the impossibility of freely using digital services already legally purchased is no longer a sustainable barrier, so it is good that this regulation overcomes this difficulty for citizens. but i would like to see a vision in the future where there is no discrimination against citizens on the basis of the administrative boundaries of a member state. as rapporteur for the imco committee i am glad that many of the principles we have set out have been maintained, so there is no time limit (to temporaryness) to allow those travelling for work and also for study to access this service; absolute prohibition of tracing of user data; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr ansip, the regulation on the portability of online content is one of the first concrete measures of the digital single market strategy presented by the european commission. it is the first step in a wider process to eliminate all forms of unjustified geoblocking and will help to make the idea of a common area of rights and opportunities for european citizens a reality. the creation of a european digital dimension of the single market also starts with the recognition that online content acquired in one's country of residence can be enjoyed throughout the union, including when travelling, studying or working outside one's country of residence. although only a small proportion of the european population is currently affected, the numbers are set to increase exponentially, reaching 72 million european citizens by 2020. the legal fiction behind the regulation extends opportunities for consumers without compromising the protection of copyright and the quality of the creative industries, an important element of the european development model. our work in the committee on the internal market has focused on finding the right balance between the need to provide consumers with an agile and effective tool, strict protection of privacy, legal certainty and copyright protection. i think the final agreement sums up these considerations very well. i am sorry, mr president, commissioner, that once again the council did not have the same ambition as we did in providing for a more flexible system of verification and a faster implementation period.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation will technically be a step forward for consumers, but politically it is a failure that justifies absurd logic of profit maximization also at the expense of privacy and european citizens. this is a very small step forward, representing the minimum union and betraying the stated goal of the digital single market. i am addressing myself to you, commissioner ansip, and i ask you: is this really how you envisaged achieving the digital single market, which was one of the five political priorities of the juncker commission? i cannot understand why we allow multinationals to move capital freely and to take advantage, even unfairly, of european tax havens, by taking away very valuable resources from the community and creating forms of unfair competition, especially with regard to small and mediumsized enterprises, while citizens and consumers cannot benefit from the single market. i find this situation unacceptable and i am fighting to change it. the court's judgment says that the clause guaranteeing absolute territoriality is against the treaty, as we have heard from other speakers. i do not want to maintain this status quo, which i consider ridiculous, and which i also consider to be illegitimate and unfair to the citizens of europe.
i am very pleased to welcome the completion of the process of discussing this regulation today. this, my friends, is a specific example of a specific provision of european law that we can gladly share with our citizens and show how the eu helps ordinary europeans in their daily lives. on friday, i'm going to be giving a lecture to high school students in my country about what the eu does for citizens, and i'm sure i'll tell the story of this regulation and show what we're doing for them in concrete terms. so i congratulate the rapporteur and the commissioner and hope that by the end of this term, they will have succeeded in pushing the other parts of the digital market. this regulation is a concrete part of the digital frontier and gives consumers the possibility to use their services, online content and other services in another eu country. it is a clear advantage, and i congratulate you on it, and on this we can build a new image of the eu for our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the spread of online content services and the increasing use of portable devices, the expectation of european citizens to be able to use online content services wherever they are in the european union has increased. at present, when users travel within the european union, they cannot benefit from such cross-border portability or only to a limited extent. removing existing barriers to the use of online content and services will allow for effective user needs to be met, but also further innovation to be advanced, to the clear benefit of consumers, service providers and rightholders. the agreement reached is particularly timely at this historic moment, also in view of the abolition of roaming charges within the european union. consumer demand for cross-border portability is set to grow and i believe that removing barriers to the use of online content and services can be a significant step towards the realisation of a true digital single market, the benefits of which can only be enjoyed by all citizens of the european union.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has certainly brought to light problems and difficulties in adopting these measures, which are nevertheless necessary. one need only think of the risk of the flight from syria of perhaps even thousands of foreign fighters to understand this. but i would like to point out to the commissioner and vice-president the situation at another external frontier, the one between italy and france, yes, an external frontier, because because tens, perhaps hundreds of thousands of persons are coming from the southern coasts of italy who are not properly identified and in some cases are not even identified at all, these persons are arriving en masse at the italian-french border of ventimiglia, which is in fact transformed into an external frontier. and there these new measures, which are so necessary and which would be really necessary, are not being applied at all. if the commissioner wishes to see for himself, the period in which the g7 sacrosanctly adopted measures to interrupt free movement is of course over, but immediately afterwards he will resume the situation which lasted until 14 may. it is not enough to go to the ventimiglia railway station to realize the daily influx of dozens and dozens of totally irregular and clandestine subjects, who flowed in complete tranquility, without any control towards france, creating enormous problems, not only of image but also for the police authorities. so are european rules a serious matter or are they totally ignored at the italian-french border of ventimiglia and is there instead an unwritten, invisible rule that makes this filth, this shameful situation possible?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the union's main achievements is certainly the free movement of persons, which must always be guaranteed and protected. but today, as confirmed by a recent europol report, the threat of terrorist attacks by european nationals returning from conflict zones, the so-called foreign fighters, remains high. in order to deal with this situation, the regulation under discussion obliges the member states to intensify border controls, which certainly do not have to mean the loss of an acquired right but which, given the circumstances, are a necessary tool to ensure that security which allows citizens freedom of movement and, in this context, the consultation and rapid exchange of data through the sis system and border controls become essential. however, i believe that appropriate support, including financial support, should be provided to those member states, such as slovenia or croatia, which, as a result of the entry into force of the regulation, are experiencing disproportionate impacts on traffic at their external borders, so that they can carry out systematic checks more quickly and effectively. the commission will have to make a substantial effort to ensure that the necessary tightening of controls does not have a disproportionate and unjustified impact on the freedom of movement of european citizens and of those who reside and move legally, perhaps for work, in the union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i thank you for this question, which perhaps allows me to clarify what i have already said. the controls are necessary, and unfortunately they must protect the freedom of movement of citizens from the risks posed by the terrorist threat to all our countries. but i have just said, and i say again, that there must be no disproportionate and unjustified impact on freedom of movement, which, as in the case you mention, can also have economic consequences. i therefore repeat that, and this is the essence of the request i am making to the commission, to find the right balance, to find the right measures between the need for security and the need for freedom which we must always respect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think we all share the satisfaction of finally seeing the so-called mobility package presented. the only certainty and the only fixed point is what will be voted on tomorrow with this resolution, namely the position of the european parliament. the fact that we have waited so long to have legislative proposals is an indication that this is a complex and articulated matter, requiring analysis and caution. but what i have been saying all along is that if we want a truly competitive europe, we must bear in mind that competitiveness comes through efficiency, it comes through the ability to provide a good service and therefore logistics is the key point. i hope that the problem of illegal cabotage will finally be solved or at least that this phenomenon will be curbed. this instrument, as we know, was designed to prevent empty lorries from travelling and thus other transport operations from taking place at the same time, but it cannot become an instrument of unfair competition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, over 26 000 deaths a year across europe and a social cost of some 100 billion euro, road safety is therefore the main emergency we have to respond to in terms of mobility. we believe that the urban centres need to be decongested by introducing the use of public transport at the expense of private transport, which is responsible for about 80% of the co2 emissions produced by the entire transport sector. the rules on rest periods and the qualifications of heavy goods vehicle drivers, with checks on licences and alcohol levels, must also be enforced. we have the technology to make road checks very timely and effective, and we are helping small businesses, perhaps even giving them an economic incentive, to adopt the technological devices needed for such checks. we support the resolution, particularly as regards the part concerning emission reduction policies. for the new electricity sector, we want to invest in both the expansion of the grid and research into the sustainability of the batteries used, so that we have products with a lower impact both during construction and at disposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector, and road transport in particular, will be one of the most interesting areas in which to test the european union's capacity for innovation. we have spoken in detail about all the challenges of new fuels, the need to limit emissions to the atmosphere, as much as 70 per cent of the emissions generated in the transport sector take place within road transport. a lot of investment is required. the european commission has allocated 70 billion from the structural funds to this sector, 39 of which are for the identification of strategies to limit atmospheric emissions in the transport sector and, in particular, road transport. these investments are made if there is a general framework of guarantees which ensure a balanced market, where the investor's reasons are respected and the worker's reasons are respected. a general concept in which you don't make a profit by exploiting people who work, you don't create the pockets of money needed for investment by not paying people. the resolution is fairly balanced overall, but there are too many dark spots. the liberalization of cabotage will be a sham innovation, paid for by hauliers who will play a game of drawdown and we will all be blamed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of dangerous goods is not subject to any restrictions. the transport and return of empty goods is not because the cabotage is too free or too restricted, but because it is difficult to match supply and demand. we're not wrong.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the road transport sector in europe must be prepared to seize the opportunities offered by digitalisation, with the development of vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure communications infrastructure. this is the future of road mobility and the union must provide the appropriate regulatory framework, logistical support and research and innovation capacity. the future of transport certainly involves environmental sustainability, a subject on which europe is strongly committed, but the functionality and interoperability of urban public transport must also become a priority. adapting existing structures requires appropriate support policies at european level and substantial investment to transform and adapt the transport systems of european cities. the issue of illegal road cabotage must be tackled quickly, it is unfair competition which is causing considerable damage in the union. the controls themselves must be made more effective, and the sanctions system must be changed in this respect.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the week of our friend gianluca buonanno's birthday, i would like to use gianluca's communication technique and say, ladies and gentlemen, sleeping europe, open your eyes! opening your eyes is the key word on this issue. wake up, wake up, wake up! what are you doing? it is enough to be at the service of the interests of multinationals, multinationals which have shown, with the complicity of this europe, that they have killed in italy, but not only, the excellent manufacturing sector. the fact that multinationals have decided to go to other countries to produce and speculate on situations that are in plain sight, situations of slavery but also situations of child exploitation, children working for 12, 13, 14 hours a day for 2 euros a day without any kind of protection, without any rules at the workplace, is unacceptable. if europe does not want to continue to be complicit in these multinational 'entrepreneurs' and in these numerous deaths at work, it must, and i stress it must, stop these illegal products from entering europe. products made without respecting the rules for the worker are illegal products.
i listened very carefully to your answer to the question posed, thank you for it. i am very pleased that you are so keen to advocate for labour rights in bangladesh. the eu is a defender of human rights, and for me personally, fundamental labour rights are as important as the right to freedom of expression or the right to assembly or other political rights. we should not underestimate this subject. it is therefore good that we are discussing the labour law issues in bangladesh here on the floor of parliament. i confess that after studying all the documents i am a little skeptical that the bangladeshi government would want to hear the initiative and the letters and the calls of the commission and respond and correct the collective individual labour law in bangladesh. i shall therefore be keeping my fingers crossed for you at tomorrow's meeting and hope that if nothing changes after 18 may, the european commission will be able to take a strong and clear action and not end up with just more diplomatic promises and more mere letters.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all members. this is indeed an extremely important issue. i would like to thank you for your strong engagement. we share your goals and we will work as hard as possible in our engagement with the bangladeshi government because we of course want decent working conditions there. as many of you have said, the compact is actually something quite unique. it has not only raised awareness, but has engaged countries, companies and civil society, and has led to some improvements – not enough, but some improvements. european and other companies that did not really engage in this have started to engage and to work with corporate social responsibility. they are working with regard to inspections, improving rights and making sure that what they produce and then sell is sustainable. this has led to a lot of improvement, but – as you all pointed out – it is far from enough. the bangladeshi government needs to do so much more. it is true that there have been a few positive signals, but not enough. there will be a meeting tomorrow. let us be fair and listen to our bangladeshi partners; let us see what they are planning and whether they have the strategy that we have asked for. let us discuss this in friendship and openness with them. we have said before – and i reiterate it again – that there are measures that we can take if we see that no progress is being made, or even that the situation is deteriorating. we are ready to take them, but we cannot threaten that today, before the meeting. the meeting is tomorrow. let us give it a chance. we have other means as well. we have made it extremely clear to them that the four ilo recommendations, namely: to amend the labour act in order to bring it into compliance with ilo conventions; secondly, to ensure that the law on export processing zones allows for full freedom of association; to make sure that all acts of anti-trade union discrimination are investigated and prosecuted at a later stage; and to ensure that applications for trade union registrations are acted upon as quickly as possible and not denied unless there are really objective grounds for doing so. these are the four most urgent recommendations and we fully support ilo in their work there. when it comes to due diligence, such as with the conflict mineral agreement that we have – which we should be extremely proud of – it is more complicated with the garment sector. we are working very closely, not only with the ilo but also on the oecd, to develop the due diligence guidelines for this sector. so the priority now, on a short—term basis, is to make them materialise and to make sure that they work in practice. garment supply chains are fragmented and complex. there is a lot of diversity and a number of actors all across the world, so doing this will be extremely complicated. we already have legislation on corporate social responsibility and responsible business conduct. we also have the non—financial disclosure directive for some large eu companies, which also apply to the garment sector. we are working with ilo and looking at what we can do with other partners in the region to support change, to train them, to encourage them, and to organise meetings in order to connect the different actors in the region. so technically and politically, there is outreach and engagement. this has led to some results. we will continue to do this. i look forward, in close cooperation with you, to continue to see how we can jointly apply pressure and make sure that there is improvement for the workers, the labour organisations and, ultimately, the people. most of them in this area are, of course, young women and girls. they still need us to be there and to continue this fight for them. thank you for your engagement. i am sure we will come back to this issue before very long.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the june partsession.
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the recommendation of the committee on international trade concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union, iceland, the principality of liechtenstein and the kingdom of norway on an eea financial mechanism for the period 2014-2021, the agreement between the kingdom of norway and the european union on a norwegian financial mechanism for the period 2014-2021, the additional protocol to the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway and the additional protocol to the agreement between the european economic community and iceland (06679/2016 - c8-0175/2016 - 2016/0052(n)) (a8-0072/2017) (rapporteur: david borrelli), and the question with debate to the commission on the request for an extension of the norwegian agricultural products quota to international trade (b7-0150000) (b7-023/2017) on behalf of the committee on international trade, lange bernd, on the request for an extension of the protocol (oj l 227, 8.8.2016, p.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will of course, as you have rightly pointed out, deal only with the question of the agreement. i am of course in full agreement with what has been said a little while ago on the question of tariffs, but i shall concentrate much more on the question of the agreement. this is an agreement on the european economic area, the so-called eea agreement, of 1994, which allows the participation in the single market of norway, iceland and lichtenstein, members of the efta. the efta countries have contributed since 1994 to reducing economic and social disparities within the eea through a dedicated financial mechanism, to which norway has added a further contribution. these financial mechanisms, which expired in 2014, need to be renewed as well as the protocols concerning fish trade. so today, at this stage, we are looking at four acts, namely two agreements relating to financial mechanisms, one between the eu and iceland, lichtenstein and norway, and one between norway and the european union, and two protocols on fisheries, one between the eu and norway and the other between the eu and iceland. these agreements will jointly provide a financial contribution to economic and social cohesion in the eea of eur 2,8 billion over the period 2014-2021. this framework, which has so far been beneficial for the european union, must be integrated into a broader political reflection on our relations between the european union and the efta countries. there are no particular problems with liechtenstein and iceland, and we will soon be discussing new agricultural agreements with iceland in the inta committee, and we must be careful here that iceland does have a free trade agreement with china, so we want to stress this aspect too. with norway, as was rightly said earlier, the question is more sensitive because of certain duties imposed on european meat and cheese. this practice has certainly slowed down the progress of the dossier and has also given rise to the oral question which is being discussed today, tabled by the president. political and economic relations between the eu and norway have always been quite good, but the question of tariffs has, as has been rightly said, been a vulnus in our trade relations in recent years. norway is the fifth largest trading partner of the european union in terms of imports and the seventh largest destination for the european union in terms of exports. strengthening our trade relations with norway is of course important, but these developments must take place in full respect of the objectives of the eea agreement. we know that negotiations are under way between the eu and norway on certain liberalizations of trade in agricultural products; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. this removal must be a priority for both sides and thus help to strengthen trade relations which are fortunately already strong. the european union exports eur 4.1 billion of agricultural products to norway and imports eur 488 million. equally important is the import of fishery products, which amounts to eur 5.6 billion. i would therefore like to conclude by thanking my colleagues for the work done in the committee on international trade and the colleagues who will now speak for their input, and i hope that we can count on a broad consensus for this agreement here too.
i believe that the agreements between the european union and norway, iceland and liechtenstein which we are to ratify tomorrow represent a good example of cooperation between our union and the countries of the european economic area. these agreements will, as mentioned above, provide a total contribution of eur 2,8 billion to the european union for the period 2014-2021, an increase of 11,3% compared to the previous period. the funds will be directed to those areas of the european union where social and economic disparities persist in a clear way, with the aim of strengthening economic and social cohesion, always favouring a better functioning of the single market, in which iceland, liechtenstein and norway participate fully. among the priority areas for investment, i would like to highlight the one on youth employment and the one on justice and home affairs, which therefore includes strategic areas such as asylum and migration. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. with regard to the question raised by the oral question, it will be essential to find a solution quickly, since the imposition of increased duties by norway on certain european products is clearly in breach of the spirit and the letter of this agreement. let me conclude with a comment, mr president. there has been a lot of talk in the post-brexit debates about the possibility of the uk adopting the norwegian model of participation in the european union. we agree that contributing financially to the european union and accepting its four fundamental freedoms are sufficient criteria to open the doors to our single market, as is the case with norway and other countries, but this does not seem to be the path the british government wants to take and they will soon realise that, as our dear colleague said in the aftermath of the referendum, the best possible deal for the united kingdom is the one we already have.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, the specific issue that was raised by mr pabriks, and others, in relation to interinstitutional engagement is something that i certainly understand. a misunderstanding did happen, and it should not have happened. the interinstitutional discussions that are ongoing at the moment will hopefully ensure that this will not happen in the future. i acknowledge the criticism of the commission that a number of speakers have made and we will try to make sure that there is no repeat of that. with regard to the specific issue that mr pabriks mentioned in relation to a territorial dispute which emerged in relation to a latvian vessel which was brought into port in northern norway, this matter is very much part of the discussions that the commission has been having with norway over the last couple of months. discussions are ongoing to try and resolve it on an amicable basis. we want to assure mr pabriks that our efforts are continuing to find a mutually acceptable solution. norway did unilaterally raise tariffs in an unacceptable fashion, and i agree with all the speakers’ sentiments on that. this is why the european union intervened and, whilst we did not get a reversal of the tariff lines that were actually increased, we did get compensation in other areas and the best possible deal that we could get at this time. i am sure there will be other occasions where we will have to negotiate with norway again and we can improve on this. the compensation that we received will be provided directly as a part of the additional quota that norway grants for particular products. the negotiators in the commission have estimated that the monetary value of the compensation required from the norwegian authorities for these measures is eur 9.8 million in terms of loss of duty, and eur 5.3 million in terms of trade value. if we deduct these sums from the value of the tariff rate quotas (trqs) that norway will now open for the european union, the remaining value of the norwegian trq concessions will still be higher than the value of the quota concessions for the eu. so i hope that this is seen as a step in the right direction, and that the european union acted on your behalf against this unilateral decision by the norwegians to increase tariffs. we got compensation in a particular way and i am sure that in the future we will be able to revisit some of these issues when norway will be looking for some nice gesture or some particular issues to be resolved by the european union. it is unfinished business. i reject the notion, though, that the commission are passive in relation to trade negotiations generally, because i think mrs malmström, as commissioner for trade, has done all that she possibly can to be as transparent as possible in the context of negotiations with all countries around the world. i expect that she will continue to do that. she has been more transparent in trade matters than any previous commissioner, in my view, but i have to bow to your superior knowledge in these matters. i was not a commissioner before now, but i see that she is trying to keep all institutions fully informed. i would say to mr serrão santos that there was a particular issue that affected a flowering plant in the azores that i am sure was also of particular interest to you and to your constituents with regard to the interference of our norwegian friends in relation to the reclassification of that plant. we continue to make representations on your behalf, and others, in relation to reversing this decision as well. i know you did not specifically mention it, but i know it to be very firmly on your mind, and i want to assure you that we are not neglecting our duties in terms of continuing to make representations on your behalf in relation to this. i would like to conclude by saying to mr andrieu that as far as i am concerned, as commissioner for agriculture, i will continue to find open markets and new markets for eu products anywhere we can around the world, from a competitive agricultural industry. i do not agree with mr andrieu that trade is bad in agriculture for our farmers, for our businesses and agribusiness. we have now a record level of exports of agricultural products right around the world and we hope we will be able to build on that. this is genuinely creating a lot of jobs in rural areas that would not otherwise be there and also contributing a lot to the economic surpluses of many of our member states. i hope my good friend mr andrieu will not mind if i mention the fact that we disagree on this occasion in relation to our attitude to agricultural exports.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think parliament's position has been quite clear this evening. if there are no duties, there should be no duties, compensatory payments cannot be worked out, duties must disappear, so i hope that the promises we have heard from the commissioner here will soon become reality. i would add more of a hope, namely that the geographical proximity, the affinity of values and principles and the already good economic cooperation with the efta countries are already a reality and a solid basis, certainly, for future developments. future areas of discussion between us and the efta countries are many and range from arctic policy to the impact of brexit, from the future of the schengen area to future agreements on agriculture and fisheries, so i am sure that a positive attitude on both sides can bring common benefits to all our citizens.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 18 may 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is one of the european union's greatest successes, it has helped many regions to escape poverty and it has ensured the development of even the most remote regions. we have done a lot in these years, but it is not enough or at least it is not enough anymore. the potential of this extraordinary policy is being limited by long bureaucratic procedures, difficulties in combining different instruments and funds and by varying lengths of time. it is necessary, for example, that the structural funds and the funds for strategic investment, which we are renewing in these very days, work together to cover the various investment needs or to simplify them radically, as we are trying to do in the committee on budgets, the financial regulation, with few but clear and applicable rules. the convergence of the various european regions is and must remain a top priority for the commission and i hope that the future prospects for cohesion policy can really mark a new beginning for our legislative work.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on two reports today. in the first we talk about the balance between financial instruments and subsidies in cohesion policy, but the answer that is being given is dangerous. a time bomb, created by the increasing use of opaque and high-risk financial instruments, with high costs that are difficult to judge or justify, or rather are certainly so for a bunch of banks and financial intermediaries who, through subtle tricks of financial engineering, promise the multiplication of investments, but much less for european companies and citizens. we are living up to our usual promises, while the market is being filled with products which can fuel a speculative bubble, with toxic effects for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises. we are in danger of facing a giant with feet of clay which, on the one hand, is plaguing the world of finance, the member states and the real economy, but on the other hand, may collapse ruinously, dragging with it businesses and the lives of millions of european citizens. on the other hand, the second report. the issue of technical assistance and administrative capacity is crucial to the success of cohesion policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one thing is certain, technical assistance initiatives must enable the institutions to strengthen their human resources capacity, but above all to increase the transparency of calls for tenders, the quality of projects, cost savings and improve competition through better public procurement. that is why we shall vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we have done a good job with the two reports, which are indeed an important contribution to the season we are opening up of the revision of cohesion policy, until the forum next june. on the report on subsidies, i would say that we point out the risks of over-using the financial instruments, but we also make a choice and give a direction as a parliament, namely to continue to maintain the subject of subsidies, the subsidies instrument as a strategic instrument of cohesion policy. it is therefore on this choice that we must concentrate our attention, our efforts and our dialogue with the commission and the council. i think that the second report on technical assistance is even more important. i would like to draw attention to three points: we have made a good choice, not only in the sense that the instrument is important to help the states, the regions and the local authorities to do more and better in the programming of community funds, and the commissioner is right to raise the issue of more information, but we have made a choice, i believe, which is in the right direction. we have said that assistance is technical not only in terms of absorption of resources but also in terms of quality, in order to understand exactly how community resources change the fundamental characteristics of the economy and society where they are used. more cooperation, inspired by the cohesion policy between the structural reforms we are introducing in individual countries to make them more competitive and the relaunch of a public investment policy and, therefore, an important core of technical assistance policy. finally, i think we need to work more on this and ask the commission to contribute to it. not to make technical assistance an instrument outside the reform of the state and public institutions. to build a modern european management class that knows how to make better use of community resources and is able to offer new policies of innovation and development. this is the challenge of the new technical assistance, not as a market instrument but as a means of building a new state, especially in many regions where we need the contribution of a new management class able to make better use of these instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, grants and financial instruments, each with its own specific features, have produced tangible results for smes, research, the environment and agriculture. however, much remains to be done to optimise the use of available resources in all regions of europe, to eliminate the disincentives to use financial instruments, i.e. to reduce red tape, to simplify access procedures, to reduce implementation costs and management costs. it is essential to simplify, clarify and make more transparent the rules governing the combination of different funds and to encourage investment partnerships, so that member states and regions are increasingly encouraged to take advantage of the instruments available. the wide range of opportunities offered by the esi funds needs adequate advisory support in the form of technical assistance, which unfortunately does not reach local and regional authorities sufficiently and effectively in some member states. the establishment of sound and transparent communication channels is essential for the successful implementation of the esi funds and for restoring confidence in the effective functioning of the instruments made available by the european union.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, hakainde hichilema, leader of the opposition, has been arrested on charges of treason because his convoy obstructed the passage of president lungu's convoy, both of whom were travelling on the same road. it sounds incredible, but it really happened. this has been done in order to eliminate or limit the political opposition in zambia, and as if that were not enough, some of its collaborators have also been arrested and subjected to various forms of torture. the strength and quality of a government also lies in allowing criticism and dissent, if it wants to grow and come to the elaboration of policies that bring progress and development for the country. hichilema and all those arrested with him must be released immediately, also in view of the recent sentence of acquittal for libel. at the same time, an investigation must be launched to ascertain whether there have been human rights violations against those arrested and, if so, to prosecute those responsible. in the light of the recent cooperation agreements, i believe it is necessary for the european union to use economic leverage against the government of edgar lungu until there is full respect for opposition rights and human rights.
i have had the opportunity to lead the european union's election observation mission in zambia. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the high representative for foreign affairs, mrs federica mogherini, once again for her confidence in me. i do not deny that we have encountered some difficulties in the electoral process, dictated by the restriction of freedom of expression, access to the media, the low participation of women, the functioning of the constitutional court for appeals. however, the result was objective, the outgoing president reported a narrow majority over the opposition candidate. in this resolution, parliament recognises the efforts of the people and the government of zambia. the release of defeated candidate hakainde hichilema after a fair trial will be an extraordinary opportunity to confirm the progress made in recent decades in terms of governance and political alternation, and to be an example of democratic consolidation for other countries on the african continent as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, can you be charged with treason for blocking a presidential procession? apparently, in zambia, unfortunately they do. opposition leader hakainde hichilema, who was the current president's main challenger in the last presidential lectures, was arrested along with many of his collaborators and we even saw the treason charges date back to an earlier arrest when he went to prison to visit some supporters. the union's election observation mission also pointed out the serious irregularities that allegedly took place during the last elections, thus acknowledging that the opposition was not entirely wrong in denouncing a number of problems and, moreover, we did not even have the opportunity to monitor the final aggregation of the results when they were sent to the national centre. we call on zambia to fully respect the cotonou agreements, to release hakainde hichilema and his collaborators and, above all, to stop this sham trial for which they are facing the death penalty. torture, ill-treatment and political persecution are not acceptable under any circumstances and we must also remember that the 484 million euro cannot be disbursed otherwise.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about ethiopia, we are talking about a country which is a key player in the balance of power in sub-saharan africa, a country which has signed the cotonou agreement but which is unfortunately denying this by its actions. following a hearing organised by mrs ana gomes, whom i greet, some opposition leaders, including merera gudina, were arrested simply for participating in this hearing and were charged with exerting pressure on the government and threatening society, even by violence, by disturbing the constitutional order. they have no right to a defence and have been charged with four violations of the penal code. in ethiopia, unfortunately, there are still human rights violations, there is excessive use of force against the oromo and other ethnic groups and, at the same time, the government is abusing the anti-terrorism law against anyone who criticizes it, attacking journalists, bloggers and protesters. because of its importance in the region, we demand the release of all political prisoners, including merera gudina, berhanu nega and jawar mohammed, and a truly international and independent investigation into all human rights violations, which we cannot allow any longer.
author. – mr president, south sudan is collapsing. the civil war has brought the country to its knees and now there is a serious risk that the conflict will take on a full ethnic dimension and could lead to genocide. almost half of the population do not have enough food. if not bullets, then malnutrition and starvation will kill them. humanitarian workers are blocked because the danger is great and there are too many difficulties, which means that they cannot assist the population affected and anyone who urgently needs help. the conflict cannot be solved militarily. we must immediately declare a ceasefire that brings together all the actors, and not just the parties in conflict, in order to recognise that the country has suffered enough and that the next steps are those of reconciliation and reconstruction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in south sudan the civil war that began in 2013 is now largely degenerating into a possible genocide. ethnic killings and ethnic rhetoric by political leaders are now commonplace, and sexual violence, rape, gang rape, abduction of women and girls and sexual slavery are widely used as weapons of war. the daily clashes between the opposition and the government on the ground are leading to an influx of over 100,000 people, last week alone, 42 per cent of the population living in insecure conditions and more than 7 million people in need of urgent humanitarian assistance, while impunity is rampant. we condemn in this resolution the current state of affairs and strongly call for a ceasefire to be reached, for the european union and all its member states to make a strong effort to stop the massacres by both sides, to reopen the humanitarian corridors and to achieve genuine peaceful cooperation. it is vital that the forces of intervention play a central role at this time, because such violence could actually degenerate into genocide, for which we could also be responsible for our inaction.
in writing. south sudan is in the midst of a bloody civil war that began in 2013. the war has brought the economy and society of this already impoverished african country to its knees. human rights have long been violated and the population has been subjected to all kinds of violence and abuse. murder, rape and kidnapping are sadly commonplace. as if that were not enough, this humanitarian crisis is compounded by a terrible famine, which according to un estimates is endangering the lives of millions of people in south sudan. in the face of this desperate situation in south sudan today, decisive, immediate and joint action by the european union and other international actors is needed to save this african country. war and violence must be stopped as soon as possible. humanitarian corridors are urgently needed to alleviate the terrible suffering of the population. we must make our voices heard to ensure that what is happening in south sudan does not go unnoticed!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i only want to add my voice to what has just been said, and in ten seconds i want to say that yesterday not only poroshenko was here, but also the ukrainian foreign minister, to whom i was able to read statements by him and his spokesman, which spoke of a request for his arrest and indictment for terrorism. i think it is very serious that such words can be used against a member of the european parliament... (the president cut the speaker off)
today is the first plenary sitting since the horrible attack in manchester on 22 may. unfortunately, after this tragic event, the bloodshed by terrorists did not stop. isis struck in egypt against coptic christians and terrorism struck again in baghdad and kabul, where dozens of defenseless people were brutally murdered. on behalf of all of us, i condemn in the strongest terms these acts of inhuman violence and express our closeness and solidarity with the families of the victims. these are innocent people who have done nothing and who have lost their lives because of the barbarism to which man is unfortunately still capable and against which the voice of parliament has risen, rises and will always rise with strength. i ask you to join me in a moment of silence in memory of all these innocent victims. (parliament observed a minute's silence in memory of the victims. ) i have to tell the house about the recent decision by president trump of the united states to withdraw his country from the paris agreement. it is a decision which is not to the liking of the vast majority of this house, for which i am the spokesman, and i will agree with president juncker and with president tusk on the joint initiatives to be taken together as the european union.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the decision adopted on the mobility package [2017/2606(rsp) ].
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to combat unfair competition and the problems arising from the incorrect application of cabotage rules, we must put the individual back at the centre. the work done by tyre drivers is highly exhausting both physically and mentally. drivers are forced to work in unfavourable conditions, away from home for long periods, with no real opportunity for interruption. the commissioner is very concerned about this, as we have seen, and his explanation of the situation is quite clear. so we welcome the proposals to take action on the current cabotage legislation, but we need concrete measures, especially practical ones, which are not just on paper. today there are minimum standards which are not sufficient because the authorities do not have the instruments to carry out true and reliable checks. we have proposed, and the european commission is pursuing, a pilot project on the use of gnss systems for the monitoring of heavy commercial vehicles. does the commissioner think that such technology can be used and promoted under this mobility package or should we wait for future developments in the sector? the priority for us is to ensure that drivers can work in humane and respectful conditions and that they have the possibility of returning home. this must be done together with the means of transport which must be returned to the establishments to ensure that the main activity of a company is in the state in which it is established and that there is no unfair competition in other countries.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we have been eagerly awaiting the publication of this mobility package. we wondered how the commission would decide to deal with such a delicate and complex subject as road transport after so many years. unfortunately, expectations were partly disappointed. the commission's policy of further liberalizing the sector is certainly not helping workers, let alone small businesses, which will increasingly have to fight unfair competition. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the fight against letterbox companies in countries where labour costs are lower than in other countries is also a good thing, but the wild liberalization of cabotage will not bring any benefits, and will instead become another instrument of unfair competition. finally, this reform will also be a dead letter if we do not have more effective controls.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president, commissioner, the structure of the package is a structure which, as such, answers all the points of question which are indeed present in a complex debate such as that on transport, but we have some elements on which work will have to be very, very rigorous. the first was quoted by virtually all my colleagues before me: the issue of dumping, the issue of cabotage. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council of ministers. further liberalization of cabotage will not solve the problem of empty returns. the reason for the return to zero is because there's a supply-and-demand problem, so it's by strengthening the market that you're addressing that problem, not by weakening it or by favoring those who don't follow the normal rules. and this is the first point of content on which we should be absolutely firm and united. on the other hand, the theme of the combination of the low-emission mobility strategy and the road package. we have a great challenge on the transport game, we have the greatest responsibilities. we are not destroying our industry on biofuels either, we are making sure that there is a gradual transition that meets the right needs of all citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, during the last plenary session this parliament insisted that the commission's proposal on road transport should maintain the high ambitions of a sector so crucial to the material and social progress of the union. i think that the package adopted is going in the right direction, albeit with some flaws, through the adoption of measures to increase the use of clean energy, to increase road safety and to tackle unfair competition and labour exploitation. as regards market distortions, particular attention should be paid to road cabotage, which remains one of the most serious threats to the proper operation of transport operations. it is essential to empower the local authorities involved in the implementation of the mobility package and to encourage them to develop innovative and sustainable solutions with a participatory approach. the time has come to put in place a harmonized and ambitious mobility plan, leading to a renewal of the transport system that is in line with the real needs of citizens.
in writing. i join the positive views already expressed by the s&d group on the announcement of the new mobility package presented today by the commission. we find proposals of great strategic scope, which i believe can create the conditions for a profound improvement in the regulatory framework in many aspects of the sector. i find it very relevant to focus on the social and societal framework in transport, given the many cases of abuse that have been found and the grey areas that still exist in the internal market. it will now be essential to ensure full implementation of the proposals announced. we will ensure that control activities in the sector (especially in the road sector) are effective, including through the establishment of ad hoc bodies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the european consensus on development offers us a great opportunity to define a common and coherent position in the face of some of the global changes that have taken place since 2005 on the world social, economic and environmental scene. the challenges we face are many. we must safeguard the values and objectives of development policy through the primary objective of fighting poverty and, in the long term, its eradication. we need to respond with foresight to the changes under way, ensuring policy coherence in peace and security, migration, trade, environment and development, and finally, we need to anticipate trends that may emerge in the next 15 years. so if the framework is ambitious, if the logic of defending human rights, democracy and good governance prevails, if we strengthen our role in global peace and justice, we can finally contribute to sustainable development in all areas of the planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to take up where mrs cécile kyenge left off, and i agree with her entirely, in saying that i support this document, i support this new approach to consensus and i find some of the criticisms i have heard here today to be a little unfair, if i may say, a little prejudiced. maybe we all wanted something more and better, but this is where we are and i don't want to degrade it, i want to enhance it. the primary objective is to combat poverty. it is stressed that development in all its dimensions and implications must be dealt with in a manner consistent with trade policies and with all other aspects, including migration. i do not think we should be afraid to admit that if we fight poverty we will succeed, if we create development with full attention to local authorities, ngos, all the processes that arise from below, we will also contribute to, how to say, making these migrations, which today are a tragedy first of all for those who are victims, not for the countries of arrival, but for those who are victims, to make them more natural phenomena that we will accept and i must say more human for the protagonists themselves. i'm not afraid to see these implications either. the important thing is that we know what the first priority of this plan is, of this method of the new consensus, but we must also be aware that if we do not want to live on the moon, but to live in this century, in this europe with this africa and this mediterranean, of which there are also the implications, we must govern and not suffer. governance that puts human rights and people's development first. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i can only tell my colleague that, having followed the negotiations closely, i know how painful it is sometimes to have to accept a hard line, a wall, from some member states or the council as a whole. i too have had to face very tough positions from some member states. if this is the possible outcome, i want to take it as a good outcome, knowing it could have been better. but i do not consider the game closed, mr president, and as regards parliament's position, parliament's control, as regards other points, not everything is lost with the end of the negotiations, because we will have to put all this into practice and we can recover, united not separated, united as parliamentary forces, we can recover what we have lost in the negotiations. it's not a final game, there's always a second half and there we'll work to improve what we didn't get in the first half.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of growing uncertainty in world politics, the communication adopted by the commission on the new european consensus on development sets out a framework for action to meet the current challenges in which the union will have to play a leading role. european cooperation policy should aim to promote the economic, social and environmental growth of developing countries, with the primary objective of eradicating poverty and helping to support democracy, the rule of law and human rights. it is essential to act with the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development in mind, which is the international community's response to global challenges and trends in sustainable development. the pursuit of the sustainable development goals will have to be closely coordinated with the paris agreement on climate change and other international commitments, beyond the decisions taken by the new us president.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want resilience to become a strategic priority of the european union's external action, then we must fully exploit its potential to contribute, in the long term, to the promotion of sustainable development not only by addressing the consequences of the increasingly recurrent crises, but also by addressing their root causes. what we are asking the commission and the council is to preserve the multidimensional nature of resilience and to provide it with sufficient financial resources. it is essential that union actions on resilience are planned in concert with humanitarian and development assistance, including in order to ensure maximum complementarity between actions and to ensure that short-term interventions lay the foundations for medium- and long-term interventions. in the next communication, the commission will ensure that resilience and stability lead to respect for human rights, the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and good governance, and the promotion of essential public services such as education, health, drinking water and sanitation aimed at improving resilience. it is important that the people concerned and civil society are fully involved in this process, including a particular focus on food security, with particular attention to the role of women, greater recognition of their role and better protection of their rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to oecd figures, 1.5 billion people live in 56 countries identified as fragile. the situation of fragility, largely caused by human factors, has repercussions on the vulnerability of populations due to conflict and insecurity, lack of access to healthcare, extreme poverty, economic crises and has direct and indirect consequences for the european union, which must necessarily take this into account in the implementation of its foreign and security policy strategy. the new joint communication should recognise and support the promotion of resilience as an essential element of the sustainable development strategies of partner countries, in particular fragile countries. systematic efforts and coherent policy action are needed to alleviate the root causes of the crisis and to enhance the capacity to manage uncertainty and change. the development of resilience in partner countries is a long-term process that needs to be integrated into all external action of the union, ensuring that european policies do not undermine developing countries' efforts to achieve the sustainable development goals.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak today on combating anti-semitism. it is a topic of common concern to us all. let me start by expressing my deep concern about the current situation in europe. evidence from different sources, including the eu agency for fundamental rights and the council of europe, shows an alarming increase in intolerance and hatred. there exists specific data collected by the fundamental rights agency confirming that every fourth jew in europe has experienced verbal or physical violence. it is difficult to believe and understand that so many in our society reject the fundamental values of tolerance, respect and liberty, and instead choose to hate. what can be done to address anti-semitism? this issue was discussed in more general terms during the conference on positive narratives against hate speech, which the maltese presidency organised in april this year. experts from member states, international organisations, academia and civil society agreed that there was no single perfect remedy for hatred. as is often the case, we need a complex response that starts with education, data collection and analysis, and ends with condemnation and criminal sanctions. let me start with the measures i mentioned last, condemnation and criminal sanctions. the eu has adopted specific legislation on combating intolerance and hatred, namely the 2008 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. this decision outlaws holocaust denial and anti-semitic hate speech inciting violence. in particular, it prohibits under criminal law condoning, denying or grossly trivialising the holocaust. in june 2016, the council stressed the importance of this legal instrument and invited member states to ensure its effective transposition and implementation, in addition to other relevant hate crime laws at national level. furthermore, the council asked member states to develop effective methods to report and ensure proper recording of hate crimes. in the context of hate speech, the council supports the commission high level group, which seeks to develop, together with the member states, concrete practices and tools to improve responses to racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. this group is actually meeting today and tomorrow, and one of the items on the agenda concerns specifically the week of action on combating anti-semitism and anti-muslim hatred. there will also be an opportunity to discuss the rights of victims of hate crimes. on several occasions, the council has called on member states to ensure the full and correct implementation of the eu legislation, notably the eu directive on the rights of victims of crime. i hope that the expertise from the high level group experts will bring us closer in our common endeavour. however, let me stress that all these countermeasures will be in vain if we forget the important role of education and youth work. more precisely, it is crucial to know the history of our continent to understand the value of tolerance and to be able to counter anti-semitism when confronted with it. in the context of awareness-raising and policy advice, we are grateful to the european fundamental rights agency for its continued monitoring of, and research into, discrimination and anti-semitism and for offering evidence-based solutions and suggestions. i would like to conclude by stressing once again how important it is to combat anti-semitism. i would like to recognise the work of the first european commission coordinator on combating anti-semitism, katharina von schnurbein. we have different tools: we have knowledge, we have education, we have counter-narratives, but we also have condemnation of any form of anti-semitic violence, hate speech or discrimination. accordingly, the responsibility rests with all of us – politicians, teachers, students, parents and, if need be, also judges and prosecutors. no one can close his or her eyes or ears and pretend not to see injustice, discrimination or hatred. an important part of the exhibition in the recently opened house of european history, which was founded at the european parliament’s initiative, is devoted to the genocide of european jews. it is the duty of our continent, and our shared responsibility, to remember and not to let it happen again.
member of the commission. – madam president, combating anti-semitism is indeed a very important and alarming topic, considering the statistical evidence which the minister has just mentioned. i very much welcome parliament’s debate and the motion for a resolution. increasing fear and high rates of verbal and physical violence against ethnic, religious and other minorities across europe are a major concern, and it is our duty not only to discuss this but also to come forward with solutions. data show a clear spike in anti—semitic incidents. there was more than one incident a day in austria and three incidents per day in the united kingdom in 2016, in both cases the highest numbers ever recorded. we are particularly worried about discrimination and harassment against jewish youngsters, who are more likely to experience anti-semitism in schools and universities. a hostile environment in schools will put the next generation at risk of exclusion. all of us, collectively and individually, have the duty to fight against intolerance and hatred and reject all expressions of them. we welcomed yesterday’s joint day of action, with parliament, on combating anti-semitism and anti-muslim hatred, which brought together jewish and muslim youngsters. today we are opening two funding calls for applications, making available eur 5.5 million to support civil society and member states’ authorities in better preventing and countering racism and xenophobia, including anti—semitism and other forms of intolerance, hate crime and hate speech. particular areas of attention include hate-crime training, empowering and supporting hate-crime victims, and improving recording, as well as data collection and methodologies. also, at today’s meeting of the high—level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other intolerance i presented the results of the implementation of the code of conduct we concluded in may 2016 with major it companies to combat illegal hate speech online. i can inform you today that significant progress has been made and all it companies have been improving their reaction to notifications concerning manifestly illegal hate speech, including anti-semitic hate speech. let me also inform you that i have asked the eu fundamental rights agency to conduct a large-scale survey on the experience of jews with anti-semitism. we expect the results by early next year. it will be the first time that we have comparable data on trends around anti—semitism across the eu, following an initial survey in 2013. on the occasion of this year’s holocaust remembrance day we made the international holocaust remembrance alliance definition of anti-semitism available through our website. the commission welcomes any useful tool that helps to prevent anti-semitism. several member states, including the uk and austria, which i have already mentioned, use this definition in their policymaking and training and in data collection on anti-semitic incidents and hate crimes. as you know, following our first annual colloquium on fundamental rights, the commission appointed a coordinator on combating anti—semitism, tasked with liaising with jewish communities and with advancing and mainstreaming commission action against anti—semitism. she is here today. we must learn from the past, in order to ensure that nobody is persecuted for what he or she is, stands for or believes in.
the majority resolution points to an undeniable fact: the increase in anti-semitic acts in europe. my group is aware of this, but it is deeply opposed to the definition of anti-semitism borrowed from the international holocaust remembrance alliance, because it tends to include what should not be included: criticism of israel. this inclusion is a trap because it obscures freedom of expression and the opposition of much of the diaspora to israeli conduct. insidiously it is suggested that the source of anti-semitism may not be in the anti-semite's gaze, but in the person being gazed at, including the jew, if at odds with israel or zionism. to define anti-semitism, we can simply say that it is hostility to the jew as a jew, period. it is a hostility that predates the birth of israel. all europeans who have a memory of themselves know this, in germany, france, italy, austria, poland. i would ask you to look at the amendments we have tabled with the greens. our intention is to give voice to the many jewish associations critical of israel, it is also an attempt to combat all xenophobia, islamophobia, anti-gypsyism because anti-semitism is always a precursor of other phobias and stigmatizations.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we had to wait for mr batten to speak before we heard about islam. these documents and this whole discussion are deeply offensive and a serious example of "islamically" correct language. there is unacceptable self-censorship on the part of the council, the commission and even this parliament. i must acknowledge the initiative of the president, which is very timely, and the discussions and reflections that have taken place, in which some of us have participated with keen interest. but beyond that, i think it is an attempt to avoid the heart of the matter. maybe not all mosques preach anti-semitism, maybe not all islamic and islamist websites preach anti-semitism, maybe not all the acts of violence that are being committed are of islamic origin, but a lot of them are. it is absolutely absurd and even demented to hide behind the finger of a reality that is right before our eyes. it is not enough to leave this parliament and take the direction of rue de la paix, for example, to see that no rabbi, no religious person professing the jewish religion would show the signs of his religion. i think we need to defend the law in a much more serious way than in these extremely superficial and generic documents, because it is part of our cultural identity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have spoken of accidents involving jews. if we look at the definition of an accident, we see that this is defined as an unexpected event. there is nothing unexpected, there is nothing unforeseen every time a jew is attacked, every time an act of anti-semitism is committed, because if we take a map and mark with a pencil where there are incidents of anti-semitism and then we take another map and draw with the same pencil where there are incidents of terrorism and then we take the two maps and overlay them with each other, we will see that these points coincide. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that where there is anti-semitism, there is terrorism. and so we cannot be too lukewarm, we cannot be too weak in condemning acts of anti-semitism. the violence that is perpetrated daily in all parts of europe against the jews cannot be called accidents, it is not an unexpected event. antisemitism is developing because of the weakness of governments that are unable to protect jews and therefore freedom of expression. today it happens to jews, elsewhere it happens to christians.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, incitement to hatred and violence in all its forms and manifestations is incompatible with the values of the european union and is therefore punishable. we must avoid falling into the trap of the competition for victimization of the various forms of discrimination. there is no one that needs protecting more than the other. racism and hatred must be addressed with equal attention and energy. today this house strongly condemns all forms of hatred and violence against jewish citizens who are victims of the growing anti-semitic attacks throughout europe. even in the light of the appalling persecution of millions of jewish european citizens, how is it that in some member states the invoking of grounds based on race, national or ethnic origin, religion or belief is still not an aggravating offence? the instruments of repression against the perpetrators of hate crimes and the protection of the victims, not only in physical terms, are certainly effective and must be strengthened. however, if isolated they will not be able to restore the climate of legality on their own. in order to prevent and combat anti-semitism, as well as all forms of discrimination, investment at the educational and cultural level in the promotion of tolerance and respect for human rights is also needed, as well as the promotion of dialogue and cooperation between the various components of society at local and national level, including dialogue and cooperation between the various cultural, ethnic and religious communities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, anti-semitism is unfortunately not a phenomenon to be left to the memory of the past. it, like other forms of racial discrimination, persists and is even increasing in some parts of the union. the atmosphere on our continent has changed for some time now and a growing number of european jews are asking questions about their future. incitement to hatred has become one of the most widespread forms of human rights abuse, with serious negative consequences, both in the real and virtual world. europe may be underestimating the seriousness of the problem that has arisen on the eastern side of its borders, where the situation has long since crossed the threshold of tolerance. nothing can justify incitement to racial hatred, let alone fostering anti-semitic feelings. these are phenomena which must be pursued and severely punished with tough and effective measures because intolerance is a direct violation of the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, principles on which the european union is founded and it is good that some leaders of the european union come to terms with this.
in writing. the problem of anti-semitism has intensified in recent years, as also reported by the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). the fight against anti-semitism must involve the whole of society, especially us politicians, we must commit ourselves to publicly and severely condemn any kind of anti-semitic gesture, statement and expression and promote tolerance in the conscience of civil society. in this connection, it is essential that the member states facilitate the adoption of a clear and common definition of anti-semitism in order to create a precise framework. the five star movement has always been committed to fighting anti-semitism and will continue to do so by encouraging and promoting respect and tolerance in order to counter incitement to hatred.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the conflict in ukraine, but that it should be involved in the peace process. the commission, the european commissioner, who say that they pay close attention to the relationship between human rights and trade agreements, are perhaps forgetting to say who is in poroshenko's government, the flag-wavers who explicitly refer to the third reich, for example. the commission has not presented any impact assessment on the possible effects of these measures on ukraine and has not presented a report on the use of the huge loans granted to ukraine, perhaps aimed more than to finance the economy, to finance the war. now parliament's proposal limits the commission's proposal, but our group is firmly opposed to any form of financing of the para-fascist regime of poroshenko.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members, the rapporteurs and everybody who has been working on this very important issue. we are aware in the commission that some products in european agriculture are sensitive and that this has been difficult for many european farmers. that is why we are working, together with my colleague commissioner hogan, to support those farmers, and we are also trying to open new markets for farmers. that is one reason why we have such an ambitious trade agenda, in order create such possibilities. european agriculture is of a very high quality, it is in demand and there are a lot of offensive interests, as well, for european agriculture in trade. when it comes to this specific proposal, it is – and i beg you really to read it – very modest. fruit is not even in there and, when it comes to processed tomatoes and wheat, they are not subject to the russian embargo. please check your figures. i would also like to say that the urea will actually make it cheaper for european farmers to get access to fertilisers because we are lowering the tariffs there. so this is a limited, but for ukraine a very important, proposal. we have looked very carefully into what we think is possible. we have specific safeguards that would suspend the preferences if there were any disruption in the market and we will supervise and monitor this very closely. we can reinforce that clause when we discuss it in the trilogue that i hope will start very soon. it is true that ukraine has a lot of problems. many of them are, of course, due to the conflict, but the country is also in the process of making painful reforms. they are working really hard to do that and a lot has been done in recent years. yes, corruption is still high and, yes, there still a need to continue the reforms, but work is ongoing and we are supporting them and working with them. most of you say that we should support ukraine. it is a neighbour, a friend and an ally, which has had a very difficult situation. one way of doing that would be to agree to this proposal. in july we will have an eu—ukraine summit in kiev, and having a political agreement on this proposal would be a great deliverable to bring with us to kiev. it would show that we are on their side, that we do care and that we are here to support them. i believe that this proposal strikes the right balance between protecting sensitive agricultural areas and sectors here in the eu and providing some extra market opportunities to ukraine. so i hope that when you vote, you can take the broader picture into account – the political and the economic one – and that we can soon enter into a trilogue in order to get a balanced proposal.
in writing. i believe that the european union's decision to grant additional support measures to ukraine in the form of additional trade preferences is appropriate. ukraine is pursuing unprecedented reforms and the reforms often entail short-term socioeconomic difficulties. the proposed measures will provide real economic and political support to ukraine at a particularly delicate stage, albeit with due care and balanced incentives, while being proportionate in the coverage of the selected products and their respective volumes and additional quotas, and providing all the necessary safeguards to compensate for any possible market distortions. it is, however, essential to ensure that any support measures serve the objectives of the association agreement, namely to achieve a functioning market economy in ukraine and to further integrate ukraine into the internal market of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'trade or human rights? that's the problem!" i quoted hamlet, but there's no hamlet doubt to be dissolved here. because you see, sri lanka is one of the countries that has violated human rights on a larger scale, yet it has been rewarded by the european union with preferential trade tariffs. true, the country is slowly finding its way back to the right path of law and justice, but it has not yet made peace with the past, which is why it was important not to make concessions at this time, but to use them to leverage the institutions and continue the process of reconciliation. however, european multinationals crave privileged access to this country and its cheap labour, and in this case the commission and parliament give them the green light. ladies and gentlemen, i know that this is not the case for many of you, but between trade and human rights, the choice is not difficult for me. finally, let me express my closeness to sri lanka which has been hit by a severe monsoon flood, we may have different opinions, but in the face of these disasters we are all one people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the selection of the subjects for the fundamental rights agency for 2018-2022 has been based on continuity with the previous subjects, reflecting the priorities of the european union in the field of fundamental rights and allowing the agency to continue its work smoothly. however, i hope that the agency will include the specific issue of afrophobia, discrimination on the basis of ethnic and racial origin of people of african descent, which is a phenomenon which is growing rapidly in the european union but which is still little known. in-depth data and research are needed to document all the forms that afrophobia can take in different member states such as marginalization, ethnic 'profiling', hate speech and hate crime, documentation necessary to be able to develop effective strategies to combat afrophobia and to advance anti-discrimination legislation with a holistic approach.
in writing. i believe that we should support the report on the multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights, which was also endorsed by the committee on foreign affairs. however, i believe that the lack of agreement in the council on the inclusion of the thematic areas of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters is a serious shortcoming in the powers of this agency. it will therefore not be possible for this institution to carry out analyses on its own initiative in the coming years in areas which have a clear relevance to fundamental rights. we hope that the council and the commission will soon review this decision, which would send an important signal to the citizens on the subject of human rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we cannot avoid starting this debate with the matter at hand: the announcement by mr trump that he will walk away from the paris agreement, a line that undermines the foundations not only of the fight against climate change but, more generally, the achievement of the entire 2030 agenda for sustainable development, is the focus of the united nations conference in new york next week, which i will be attending with the parliament's delegation. it was to be the first major meeting to move from political commitments to concrete action towards the global goals for sustainable development, and now, in light of what has happened, it will be even more so. we must aim to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, convinced that a more sustainable system is not only good for the environment but also good for the economy, which today is faced with the challenge of using resources efficiently. if this is true in general, it is even more so for the management of our seas. responsible management of the seas is the only way to fully promote biodiversity and at the same time the potential of the blue economy: tourism and fisheries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming un high-level conference to support the implementation of oss 14 is a unique opportunity to launch an international process to improve global ocean governance. despite the global commitment to reduce overfishing by 2015, 31.4 per cent of the world's fish stocks were still overfished in 2002, according to johannesburg. illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is responsible for much of this impoverishment and puts honest fishermen at a disadvantage, weakening coastal communities, especially in developing countries. the european union has a duty to promote more strongly, within the framework of the united nations ocean conference, a comprehensive approach to eliminating the loopholes that allow illegal operators to profit from their activities. only a precautionary approach, based on the safeguarding of ecosystems, as laid down in the treaties and the common fisheries policy, can help restore and maintain fish stocks above the levels necessary to ensure maximum sustainable yield.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of europe will also depend on our ability to make the most of the opportunities offered by the digital revolution, while respecting our social model. i shall only dwell on two points which were highlighted in the imco committee's opinion on this important report. the first: the need to ensure that the process of digitalisation of industry offers new opportunities for consumers in terms of greater choice and quality of goods and services. in addition, we stressed the importance of advancing interoperability and standardisation, supporting access to essential patents for technical standards on fair and non-discriminatory terms, and involving stakeholders and social partners in the definition of new standards. it is therefore essential that the european union adopt as soon as possible an ambitious and effective strategy for the digitisation of industry, which will strengthen the competitiveness of the european production fabric, starting with small and medium-sized enterprises.
the committee on culture and education has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion as the committee on culture we have highlighted certain aspects. the development of 5g technologies represents a unique opportunity for businesses and cultural and creative innovators to compete on the global stage and to showcase their talent as well as to expand a sector that today represents over 7% of european gdp. the audiovisual sector, which is involved in this digital transition, will also benefit from it, provided that its needs and specificities are taken into account. secondly, it will be very important that the plan actually provides that by 2025 all primary and secondary schools, universities, libraries and research centres in europe will have access to high speed internet, even with a strong investment from the efsi fund, of course, and also, however, provided that the security conditions are guaranteed and with strong action to give digital skills, this must be emphasized, otherwise we risk that there will be an investment in infrastructure, but not in the infrastructure that is human resources. finally, i think we need to aim at a true inclusive digital citizenship, we still have a very strong digital divide and so i would like the aspects related to education and also the inclusion of rural and peripheral areas to be very present in the 5g strategy.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the challenge of digitising european industry is incredible in numbers and in historical and cultural scope. the annual turnover of this development of the european industrial process is estimated at some 110 billion euros, and, even more important, we have some 50 billion euros a year of planned investment. so this is a real digital revolution and, again, a cultural revolution. the report, and i thank mr bütikofer for that, is built on all the pillars, the infrastructure issue, with a timely emphasis on the need for greater attention within the efsi, and therefore the junker plan, to be paid to investments linked to the development of industrial digitisation in europe, the issue of a shared digital industrial policy at european level and the central issue of a just synergy, built in a timely and rigorous way, between the public and private sectors in the investment policy we were talking about. but the core of this challenge is all about, as my colleagues have said, the great game of human capital. the skills that used to last 30 years in the labour market are now obsolete in three to five years. so the first challenge is to create the conditions so that the labour market is not rigid and protective, but adequate and flexible so that the best are always rewarded.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the whole debate, because i consider this to be one of the most important points. it is perhaps a pity that we are discussing this point so late at night in the middle of an additional meeting. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. i believe that without the coordination of the european commission, if each country is going to tackle the digitization of industry on its own, we will not be very effective. we really need to address the issue of resources, the huge increase in money, at the european level. i was surprised to see that we in europe spend only one third of our resources on digitisation, compared to the united states, for example. we need to increase resources, have a common strategy, but also to recruit people. we're short of it people, as some of our colleagues have said. so, commissioner, this is a key issue and we need to work on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, industry plays a fundamental role in europe's economy, new technologies such as big data and artificial intelligence are emerging, with new challenges and an ever-changing reality, but the new technologies raise above all ethical questions. when data are immeasurable and concern not natural but social, historical or linguistic realities, the criteria for classification are affected by the object to be classified and tend to be confused with the social facts themselves. the management of this data ends up affecting social life itself by raising the questions expressed in the report, and i congratulate mr bütikofer. it is true that industry remains competitive only by combining innovation with sustainability, but it must be clear that the ubiquity and not the rivalry of data subtly exposes the consumer to a vulnerability of privacy and possible and progressive violation of antitrust rules. it should not be surprising in the years to come that consumers will have so-called personalised prices for the same goods. the characterization of consumers is a danger that they live in ever more restricted circles, where free choice is only apparent.
in writing. the competitiveness of european industry is key and it is therefore essential that the union is able to lead the new industrial revolution, through innovation, and on the basis of sustainability. in fact, right here, are some of the old continent's strong points: it has know-how, r & d, skilled workers, a large single market, a strong industrial base and a long-standing cooperation between production and services. in this context, europe needs an ambitious industrial modernisation strategy, which digitises its manufacturing base. this must be done with a comprehensive approach, which puts environmental sustainability as well as social sustainability at the forefront. the digitisation of the enterprise must therefore be conceived as a holistic strategy, without forgetting the need for cybersecurity standards. the direction we are taking seems to be the right one, and we will see to it that the road is taken in the right way.
mr. chairman, i want to take this one minute to inform you about the situation in the czech republic in the area of the electronic communications act. the czech republic had legislation that was criticised by european experts as insufficiently protecting consumer rights. i am glad that on 24 may this year the chamber of deputies adopted an amendment to this law, and that finally czech citizens will have sufficient rights in conflict with operators who often abuse their dominant position, their economic power, and thus force citizens not to withdraw from contracts or restrict them in other ways. the new legislation should already meet the criteria of european legislation and should thus sufficiently protect consumer rights. the behaviour of operators, for example, shows that in the last few days some czech operators have restricted roaming services without any clear reason.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to dedicate this one-minute speech to denouncing the direct and indirect effects of the so-called 'blue whale' online game, which is responsible for dozens of suicides among young people. to continue to call the chilling phenomenon of the blue whale a game is to minimize its gravity and relegate to a quasi-playful realm a practice that is rooted in a teenage and social discomfort that cannot and should not be underestimated. many media outlets continue to report the blue whale game in the wrong way: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of information on the causes of suicide. we must be more careful because words not only describe reality, but they have the power to change it. however, the main area of intervention must be the family and social area. because if dozens of young people think they're finding their identity by becoming protagonists of an extreme practice, if they only see their value recognized in passing absurd tests that lead to a tragic epilogue, it means that they don't see their value recognized elsewhere.
i would like to thank mr kaufmann and all the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment to the issue under discussion today, which is of great concern to the security of our citizens. the uniform visa system applied over the past 20 years has been a key instrument in the achievement of one of the main elements of the internal market: the area of free movement of goods and persons. however, during this period there has been a steady increase in counterfeiting and fraud in several member states. this has made it necessary to take action to further improve the security of our citizens by introducing a new visa format, which is more secure and technologically capable of responding to the criticisms that have emerged in the application of the previous models. a clear union response to the fight against the falsification of documents, made even more necessary by the increase in visa applications registered in connection with the increase in migratory flows. the fact that we have taken action to change the uniform model with more security features in order to make the sticky visa more secure and to prevent its falsification will also help to combat illegal immigration, as well as the phenomenon of so-called overstayer, that is, those third-country nationals who reside in our territories beyond the limits set by law or visa-free agreements. we also know that visa forgery is a very sensitive area in which the interests and activities of organised crime have been concentrated, and that this has also provided support for terrorist organisations. the uniform model certainly makes it easier for the border guards to detect forged documents. i am convinced, however, that the union can be even more ambitious in terms of internal security and therefore i believe that we must continue to work towards full harmonisation of the whole visa system. i thank my colleagues for their work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is crazy to think that we can tell european citizens, italian citizens, that with the uniform visa system we can stop terrorism, we can stop illegal immigration, this invasion. that is to say, europe is certainly expected to do something else, unless europe thinks that it is treating the italian people and the citizens of europe as fools. the real-world numbers are dramatic: in italy, since the beginning of the year, we are talking about 60,000 landings, last year, in 2016, 70,000 people disappeared, and we don't know what happened to them. the increase of nigerian communities in italy is 400 percent. europe fails on the issue of resettlement quotas, it fails on the fact that it has made a commitment to repatriate one million illegal immigrants and it does nothing, and we are here today to talk about a single visa form. what do the citizens expect? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. if we want to talk about single modules of procedures, we talk about returns, we talk about identifications.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the visa system in force in the schengen states is now obsolete, it is a system which has been in use for over 20 years and which no longer provides a sufficient degree of protection against counterfeiting. at a time like this, with the threat of terrorism, we cannot afford to have any loopholes in the visa control system. a new uniform model for european visas should be adopted, which has higher technical characteristics in terms of security and anti-counterfeiting devices, without, however, entailing increased costs for administrations, let alone inconvenience for legitimate visa holders. in recent years there has been a marked increase in cases of forgery, especially in some member states, which has also been confirmed by the competent authorities who have verified the existence of counterfeit european visas in circulation. the commission has therefore taken the necessary steps to ensure that the secret technical specifications for the production of new adhesive stickers are updated and that the legislation is adopted as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our debate today touches the very heart and life of people, elderly people who are no longer able to manage themselves and their property, who move from one country to another in europe, relatives, brothers, perhaps parents who have been joining their children abroad for many years, people who want to return to their home country after years of emigration. europe is also that. but while free movement works, sometimes it's the red tape that makes the transfer complicated. the lives of vulnerable adults, the rules governing the capacity to be guardians, to manage their assets are the exclusive competence of the member states. and it is understandable, but what we are saying today is that we are calling for more flexibility, for greater simplification in the recognition of these protections between member states, so that we do not have to start from scratch, for single forms of inadequacy mandate, for ipso jure recognition of protective measures, for greater cooperation for greater protections, so that vulnerability is not an obstacle, even in the face of administrations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of vulnerable people is a matter which deserves our attention. these are adults who are temporarily or permanently unable to provide for themselves and whose protection requires increased attention. it is now generally accepted that the weak subject must be considered to have special legal positions which must be coordinated in the framework of interpersonal and international relations. many countries in the union have ratified the 2000 hague convention on the protection of vulnerable adults, but it is necessary for all member states to ratify it in order to make the protection of these individuals uniform across the union. unfortunately, eu countries have their own specific legislation and there is not always legal uniformity between member states, obviously creating considerable legal difficulties for vulnerable adults. it is therefore necessary for europe to work on identifying best practices in order to ensure that the hague convention is fully implemented and that the problems and delays experienced so far are overcome.
i voted in favour of this report because it rationally identifies the advantages of progress in the digital world. they talk about education, health care, industry. all true, but we can't look to the future without considering the reality of the present. a 5g europe today looks almost like a science fiction movie. in europe, the digital divide between regions, in particular between rural and urban areas, is still considerable. we must start from the awareness that rural areas, as well as mountainous or island areas, are unlikely to enjoy the same benefits from the gigabit society as are experienced in cities or central regions. it is enough to think of broadband, which is not yet a uniform reality throughout europe. the danger is that 5g will widen this gap between regions, marginalizing the peripheral and the weakest. so why not start investing in these less developed regions? the proposal is provocative, of course, but perhaps it could be the right stimulus for the necessary progress towards a 5g society that can leave no one behind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this report highlights the focal point of europe's development for the coming decades. the digitisation of industries is the goal we must aim for, especially in an increasingly competitive market that sees competition for large global areas of the world. so, moving in this direction, from 5g to everything that makes our industry, our production system, more efficient, more competitive and more innovative, means ensuring our europe even more of a dominant position in the universe and in the world. so i think that in this respect voting for the report will guarantee what we share, namely a united europe, a cohesive europe, a europe which will increasingly guarantee competitiveness in the world.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 1 june 2017.
ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, once again, we are forced, at the beginning of a session, to remember innocent victims of the terrorism madness. a european union capital london was hit, with many casualties from different countries. but murderous terrorism has also struck outside the borders of the european union. the parliament in tehran has been attacked and we cannot but denounce this horrible attack, knowing full well that the force of freedom and democracy does not bow before the violence of terrorism. we're not going to change our lifestyle. we will go forward as europeans to make a decisive contribution to the defeat of terrorism. but with that said, i would ask you to join me in a moment of silence to remember the victims of london, but also those of tehran. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence) ladies and gentlemen, before we open the sitting, i would also like to express our concern about the fate of the lawyer taner kilic, president of amnesty international in turkey, who was arrested by the turkish authorities last wednesday, along with 22 other lawyers. we call on the turkish authorities to immediately release taner kilic and all other arrested persons and drop all charges against them, unless there is clear evidence of their involvement in the failed coup attempt of july 2016. (applause) i would like to thank i would like to remind you that europe is a community of values and freedoms and that we will always stand by all those who fight to defend human rights. europe is committed to protecting freedom of expression worldwide. that is why i also want to express our concern at the arrest this afternoon of the russian opposition leader alexei navalny and many of his supporters who were with him. let us not forget the many other cases of violence and discrimination in the name of values which we share and which we are tireless advocates of. i would also like to point out that loujain al-hathloul, who was arrested at dammam airport in saudi arabia, has been released without charge.
prima is a project which is being developed by the european commission and the european parliament. this proposal is long overdue - i thank commissioner moedas - but it is a real test. we must show that we can combine intuition, a good idea, with the ability to implement the same idea. why the expectations? it is not lost on anyone that this project is taking place in a strategic area, but also one which is very problematic for the european union. expectations because, by putting water resources and their management and the implications for food systems at the centre of the research, it is expected that this project, this research platform, will contribute to addressing some of the biggest challenges we have in the mediterranean: the first is climate change, the second is food security, the third is migration. finally, a great expectation because it is a very meaningful form of partnership. it can also be emblematic for the future. it puts european countries on an equal footing with non-european countries, in this case african countries, calling for equal powers but also for a very specific assumption of responsibility. i think that this figure, this way of going hand in hand between competence and responsibility, we must always assume, for all cooperation actions. finally, and in conclusion, it will be very important, mr commissioner, who is responsible for research and innovation, to show that research can be a practical instrument for improving the quality of life and the environment and for its precise effects on development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current situation of social and political turmoil in the mediterranean basin calls for reflection on the major economic and social challenges that are being faced. armed conflict, political instability, climate change, unsustainable resource management and rapid population growth are the most critical factors contributing to migration. in this context, i welcome the initiative of the prima joint programme, aimed at sustainable and inclusive growth in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership. the coordination and extension of national research and innovation programmes in the field of agri-food and water management is an essential step towards a comprehensive and integrated approach. the development of joint innovative solutions will make water supply and food systems sustainable and more cost-efficient. i believe that it is essential to monitor the benefits of the partnership on a regular basis in order to evaluate ex post further extensions of immigration prevention policies and to extend the same system to neighbouring countries in the context of the european union's neighbourhood policies.
i hope you will be as generous with me. commissioner, you are running horizon, which i believe is one of the very few positive achievements of the last legislature, alongside the 20-20-20 programme on climate change. so, you have in your hands one of the few things i would save from the past five years. today we all understood that horizon is a success story, but we also understood that it has important room for improvement and we have a duty to work on those margins. we know - and i think we have all found a common ground - that we must act on both lines, which we have sometimes opposed in the past. on the one hand, basic research and excellence the ten years of the european research council have celebrated a little of this excellence and, on the other hand, the whole theme of technological innovation. the european innovation council which you are preparing is very important in this respect. it would be important for parliament to be able to participate in all the working and reflection groups which are working towards this objective, and it is important for smes, industry and the industrial sector to be involved, although they have not increased their research quotas. there's a big resource problem here that you and i are going to try to solve. as a final suggestion, which was given by mrs cabezón, i would like to refer to the subject of health. there are research, hospitalisation and care institutions of the highest standard in europe and a network must be created. you should be giving this input, commissioner, to draw from it the fruits of research which has an immediate impact on people's health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid and drastic changes europe is facing, from migration flows to new energy and environmental challenges, require that research programmes also be updated and strengthened in some way. horizon 2020 is the world's leading research programme, with all that this entails in terms of the complexity of implementation, the strategic relevance of the objectives and the need for policy attention. it is essential to invest ever more budgetary resources, to foster synergies with other european programmes and other sources of funding and to continue to give priority to innovation in the industrial fabric. this report is in fact a stimulus for the commission in view of the mid-term review of horizon 2020. in addition to the adaptations that need to be made to meet new challenges, the structure and foundations of the programme need to be strengthened and a focus on more transparent, clear and simplified implementation, less fragmentation, as well as ex-post monitoring and measurement of the impact of public funding.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, finally a debate on the future of cohesion policy, on cohesion policy post 2020, also in plenary. we in the committee voted in favour of this report, thanks in particular to the exclusion of national cofinancing from the stability and growth pact, which we have been calling for since the beginning of the legislature. but this paragraph is now seriously threatened by an amendment tabled by the ppe, alde and s&d. while the großkoalition is making amendments that are sinking our economies, the five star movement is making more for the citizens, against macro-conditionality, against the possibility of suspending funds if your absurd country-specific recommendations are not implemented. if we as a parliament are not able to approve the proposal for a golden rule on investment, and if we dare to criticise the perverse mechanism of macro-conditionality, how can we negotiate with the council to defend the future cohesion policy? what face can we put before the regions, the municipalities and the citizens whose projects are in danger of being suspended and not scheduled because the governments have not respected absurd rules? i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. you have the same courage to go against the austerity measures imposed. let us wake up and give a sign of our existence as co-legislators, before it is too late, before the cohesion policy is cancelled out by katainen and dombrovskis ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the active cohesion policies affecting our territories and the credibility of the european union's position, i would like to speak in particular with regard to the solidarity fund and the funding to be allocated to earthquake-stricken areas. i believe that it is essential, in this context, to support and direct our dedication and attention to those who have lived and are living through dramatic moments, because it is not just the human aspect that prevails over everything, but it is a system, the economic one, of our small and medium-sized enterprises, our agricultural system, our shopkeepers and our craftsmen, who lose hope and have to move from their places of origin, without being able to understand what the perspective is. i believe that this kind of policy brings the european union closer to our territories and hence to cohesion policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr buda and the other rapporteurs on this report on the communication on the esi funds for the work we have done together and for the climate in which we have worked. this work has further highlighted the fact that there is a serious communication gap between the european institutions and citizens. the citizens do not have the right perception of what europe does for them, for the territory in which they live, as local authorities and regions claim. europe is unfortunately perceived today as a mere set of rules, limits, vetoes and bureaucracy which hamper the growth of the member states. only a small proportion of the european population, for example, is aware of cohesion policy. many people have heard of european funds, but few can describe what is achieved with them. yet cohesion policy is the main european investment policy. it intervenes massively in the weakest territories. i am thinking, for example, of my region, sicily, which is a major beneficiary of the structural funds. improving communication of the successes and objectives of cohesion policy means rediscovering the link with the citizens, providing clear and real information, showing concrete examples of how europe is our first opportunity for growth and this, as the commissioner knows very well, serves to remind those who want to destroy cohesion policy that we cannot afford it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would have liked to have spoken to you in person at this sitting, but i am involved, we are emotionally involved, i am a shadow and i have lived through the dramatic situation of the earthquake. this issue has once again shown how europe can move mountains with its words, but cannot, after months of earthquake in italy, even remove the rubble from the affected areas with its actions. thousands of citizens, who are our friends, our relatives, our acquaintances, are still waiting to be among the winners of the temporary houses, as if having them were part of a prize competition. cottages that aren't there yet or are locked up and unused. and while their masters, in pomp and circumstance, went down to norcia to show solidarity and support for the affected population, here in brussels, as if possessed by a split personality, they demanded strict and compulsory respect for stability, in the name of which they are prepared to sacrifice the lives and dignity of human beings who have lost everything. nothing can stand against the hawkish rigor of austerity policies, nothing can shake your cold consciences. you force us to bend over backwards, convinced we're right. unless god wills it, you too will one day have to deal with an ecosystem that does not look to the stability of public accounts, but tears itself down mercilessly and brings only destruction. on that day, which we hope never comes, you will understand what it means to lose everything and be alone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is clear that the challenge we face is to improve the perception of local communities of the socioeconomic impact of cohesion policies and, above all, of their results. democratic management involving the territories, the partnership and the institutional chain for more timely and comprehensive information on strategies and instruments and therefore also on results. in particular, i would like to stress the strategic value of the completion of the european social fund, how the resources are really a lever to increase the skills and training of disadvantaged people and thus to improve active labour policies, so that they become known tools to promote social inclusion. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next few months will see the decisionmaking process on the strategic guidelines for cohesion policy after 2020, choices which will have a decisive impact on the future challenges and needs of the union. first of all, the appropriate financial allocation must be maintained, taking into account the different levels of competitiveness of the regions, in order to achieve a harmonious development of the european union. some reforms introduced in the past programming cycle, such as thematic concentration and ex ante conditionality, have helped to demonstrate the value of cohesion policy and should be maintained, but the mechanism of macroeconomic conditionality, which is in deep contradiction with the objective of those policies, should be overcome. for the same reason, i fully support the proposal to exclude national cofinancing quotas from the deficit calculation under the rules of the stability and growth pact. finally, the method of involving the actors concerned should be reviewed. the role of socioeconomic partnership will have to be binding and systematically involved, especially at the programming stage, because of the added value it can provide in the effective implementation of cohesion policies.
in writing. last year, a series of earthquakes shook central italy, causing serious damage to people, property and cultural heritage. the commission's proposal to set up a priority axis for reconstruction in the event of natural disasters, financed by the european regional development fund, is therefore good news and a necessary step. although the legislative process has reduced the union co-financing rate from the proposed 100% to 95% and a ceiling of 5% of the total erdf allocation per member state has been set, it is still a priority that the proposal be approved and the funds can be released as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year the european commission prepares a report on fishing opportunities for the following year, and every year we read data on the mediterranean which unfortunately are similar. we see that there are some stocks recovering in some parts of europe and others reaching maximum sustainable yield, and we keep reading that in the mediterranean, however, about 90 percent of fish stocks are overexploited and therefore well beyond the limit of maximum sustainable yield. i must acknowledge - and i did so personally a few days ago in new york at the united nations conference on the oceans - that commissioner vella has succeeded in bringing the mediterranean to the forefront of attention with a series of initiatives over the last year and a half, and we are very pleased about that. we started in catania, where we finally had a meeting of technicians, politicians and scientists on the situation in the mediterranean. it was followed by interministerial meetings and finally by the malta declaration a few months ago and the medfish4ever project, launched by the european commission itself. we therefore thought that the european parliament too should have its own position and voice on this very important and sensitive subject and on this rather complex situation, and so we have tabled this own-initiative report and have expressly asked for an open debate here in the plenary, because this is a subject which requires the efforts of many people and policies. the report was the result of very well coordinated work with the shadow rapporteurs and it has produced a fairly broad picture. we have tried to cover a little bit of everything, to give a picture of the situation in the mediterranean fisheries, which is different from any other european basin, both in terms of the stock we have, the basin we have, which is shared with other non-european third countries, and also in terms of the type of fishermen, since 80% of the fishermen in the mediterranean are small fishermen with boats of less than 12 metres. we have tried to paint a complete picture and then we have also tried to give some ideas, proposals and solutions to try to deal with this situation. the points in the report are numerous, and i shall not be able to recall them all. the report has been seen by everyone in this house and everyone knows it well. i am only reiterating two or three concepts. we cannot think of a solution for the mediterranean without involving third countries. that is why we welcome the interministerial meetings organized by the european commission with great satisfaction, because we insist on the same basin, we insist on the same stocks and third countries must work with us to try to make these stocks sustainable. there is no socioeconomically sustainable fishery without healthy stocks. so we have to achieve this balance. the situation is very complicated now, and that is why the solutions are not unique, but different. we also dealt with a few difficult issues such as illegal fishing, which is still very much present, especially in some mediterranean countries. we also discussed possible conservation measures, including the problem of quotas, which seems to be a taboo in the mediterranean, without proposing it or even forgetting about it, but only as something that is there and could be useful. i am waiting to hear the commission's and my colleagues' comments and i believe that we have done a good job and that it is important that this report be voted on tomorrow to have parliament's voice on this issue.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague, mr marco affronte, for his valuable work on this dossier. with its 17 000 species, the mediterranean is a sea of great biodiversity. it is therefore important that fisheries management policies have a multispecies and ecosystem approach, based on scientific research and data exchange. but that's not enough. it is necessary to take account of local particularities through the principle of regionalization, which in my view remains the best instrument and on which we are working in the committee on fisheries on a great many dossiers, starting with technical measures. to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2020, work needs to be done on several fronts, from safeguarding marine ecosystems to strengthening cooperation with third countries, including to combat illegal fishing, from greater involvement of fishermen in decision-making processes to investing in food education starting in schools, so that an aware consumer does not eat more fish but eats more fish. we must not simply reduce fishing effort, but we must act in all sectors with transversal policies. the mediterranean is the sea where shipping is greater than all the seas in the world and it is therefore on this that we must work, on land-based urbanisation and on marine waste. i mean, we have a lot of issues to discuss in a lot of committees. the mediterranean is therefore not without its artisanal fisheries, which account for 80% of the fleet. it employs hundreds of thousands of people, including many women. and then we are not just talking about fishing, but we have to think about who sells the fish, who is the caterer, who is the processor, who produces and markets the equipment, and so on. in short, to ensure a sustainable future we must combine environmental, social and economic considerations, otherwise, in a few years, we will be forced to find ourselves here to prevent the extinction of another species, that of the fisherman.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the overall level of overfished fish stocks in the mediterranean is considered to be twice the maximum sustainable yield. but the mediterranean sea is also subject to other threats, such as pollution, maritime traffic, climate change and oil and gas extraction. the mediterranean must be protected by sustainable multiannual management of resources, with more selective fishing gear, respect for the minimum size, greater control of illegal fishing and, where and if scientific studies require it, also biological stocking. at the same time, however, european fishermen must be guaranteed a decent income. member states should set up a fixed income compensation fund to cover fishing closure periods. the lack of a common regulatory framework for the fleets of the european union and third countries operating in the mediterranean is creating unfair competition to the detriment of our fishermen. it is therefore essential to encourage greater cooperation with third countries bordering the mediterranean sea.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone very much for all your interventions and valuable views. the mediterranean sea is part of our shared heritage, part of our cultural heritage and part of our economic heritage, a veritable hub of trade and economic growth. today, this heritage is at risk, and that is why it is of the utmost importance to protect the region’s ecological and economic wealth. the good news is that it is not too late, and that initiatives such as the medfish4ever declaration or the report that we are debating here today are crucial towards guiding us into the right direction. in order to concretely address these concerns, we should involve everyone: governments, commercial and recreational fishermen, scientists, non-governmental organisations and international and regional organisations, and together we can turn the situation in the mediterranean around. we look forward to working with all of you, to work with the european parliament in the implementation of both the common fisheries policy and a medfish4ever declaration in the mediterranean.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the excellent debate and especially those who have mentioned points in the report which i did not have time to mention earlier. i thank the empl committee for having strengthened and completed the socioeconomic part of the report which, in my first draft, was perhaps a little weaker than the rest, because of my own extraction. the debate was very intense and very interesting, but there is a general consensus and agreement on the whole and we are glad that this report, as i said at the beginning, brings parliament's voice to this very sensitive subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the le grip report shows, there is gender discrimination in europe, which is linked to greater difficulties for women to access the labour market and to the wage gap, with a consequent pension gap that puts women at risk of poverty. yet equal pay for men and women is a fundamental principle of the union. ensuring that all citizens have an adequate and sustainable retirement income, now and in the future, is one of the key european objectives. a european response is therefore needed to address the variables that are at the origin of the gender pension gap. a strategy is needed to close the pay gap and to provide for measures to facilitate work-life balance and the recognition for contribution purposes of years of family care, which is normally a task for women. we must promote and achieve real equality between men and women, in the awareness of the contribution that women, through their work inside and outside the home, bring to the benefit of the whole of society.
mr. chairman, i wanted to speak in support of mr. bashir's report. a few months ago, we were here in plenary on human rights issues discussing the very difficult situation of the rohingya and the way in which they are being oppressed by the country of myanmar, formerly burma. and how these people, because they don't have citizenship of their country, how they are harassed, persecuted, and i'm not afraid to say that there are even some genocidal practices. the rohingya are not the only ethnic group in southeast asia, there are more than one, and it's good that there is a general material coming out today that clearly says that we want these countries in asia to respect the un conventions of the early 1960s, which clearly says that a person has the right to citizenship, has the right to citizenship of the country where he is born, as long as he doesn't acquire another citizenship. and we should enforce that principle and want it to be applied in international relations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for giving me the floor. as a member of a minority myself, i can only imagine how difficult it must be for a group to be denied citizenship. i think it is right that we also talk about the situation of the rohingya in this context. i must also say that i had the opportunity a few weeks ago to spend several days in myanmar and to meet both mrs san suu kyi and the kofi annan-led commission on rakhine state. i think it would have been right if we had at least referred to the working party chaired by kofi annan in this resolution and pointed out that mrs san suu kyi is currently making a great effort to improve the situation, despite all the difficulties in the area. i think we owed it to the nobel peace prize winner. i think it would be right not only to condemn but also to encourage the myanmar government to finally move forward with this matter and to find a good solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise as the representative of southern italy, a land of great agricultural and food excellence, to denounce the fact that, of the 100 geographical indications provided for in the agreement with china, only the mozzarella di bufala campana is a product of southern italy. it seems very strange to me that there should be protection for german wine, which is a sophisticated wine, a sugar wine, or slovak wine, and there should be no protection for nero d'avola or bianco alcamo, no protection for extra virgin olive oil, no protection for the wonderful sicilian oranges. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is unacceptable and we must understand what we have to do and where we are going with this.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly excited today to tell you a story that has never been told before, at least in this house. this regulation introduces into european legislation certain concepts relating to the energy efficiency of electrical equipment and its potential dynamic interaction with electricity grids. i learned these concepts ten years ago when i was a dentist and, for the sake of publicity, translated environmental sustainability essays into italian. i could never have imagined that one day i would be standing here representing millions of citizens and having the honour of transposing into european legislation what were at the time some experimental proposals by lester brown and others. smart appliances are appliances, such as dishwashers and washing machines, that can be programmed by the user to start running at times when electricity is available in the most abundant and cheapest quantities. the widespread use of smart appliances will not only save users money, but also make a significant contribution to the balance of an electricity system powered by increasingly renewable sources. imagine a citizen producing wind or solar energy. some of the equipment in his house will be able to come into operation and carry out its work when self-production is more abundant. imagine the old, outdated electric water heater, which by its nature is not particularly efficient in purely thermodynamic terms, but if the water heater will heat water when electricity is cheaper and more abundant, the accumulated heat will be a low-cost form of energy source. smart appliances are a new frontier in energy efficiency, not just in quantity but also in quality, not just in how much energy is consumed, but also in when it is used. that's why i'm excited, because behind this text is a little piece of utopia that is becoming a reality for 500 million citizens. the proof that you can believe in an idea, however far-fetched it may seem, and piece by piece, with persistence and determination, get it done. this regulation, for the first time, gives manufacturers the possibility of indicating on the label the ability of equipment to be energy smart. this little thing allows the new labelling regulation to keep pace with the times and to fully integrate into the new dynamic, decentralised and renewable energy model we want to pursue with the energy union. an energy union whose stated objectives include putting the citizen at its centre. the new labels will be accompanied by an open data database which can be accessed directly via a mobile phone, a qr code, a link or similar on the paper label and will be able to provide buyers, in the 24 languages of the union, not only with a series of information that cannot be found on a piece of paper, but will also allow the development of smartphone applications which will allow citizens and businesses to make instant comparisons between different models and to choose the one which offers the best result in terms of initial investment and savings over time, not in relation to a generic average but in relation to personal usage habits. i've listed two things i've fought for and i'm proud of, and there's more. however, if i'm to be intellectually honest, as i am in my habit, i also feel obliged to share a bit of a pain with you. at the beginning of this process, i made a promise that i would be guided by three key words: smart, paperless and trust. we are certainly facing a smart regulation, in which the use and importance of paper is being reduced in favour of a more fruitful use of digital technologies of documents and online databases. it is true that this regulation undoubtedly strengthens the national market surveillance authorities, but we would have liked more. we would have liked to see a compensation from the manufacturers if it were found that the energy performance of a product was lower than the declared one. parliament wanted it to be a compact one, but unfortunately we found ourselves faced with a wall, the council's wall, which prevented it. it has prevented eu citizens from having the same rights as, for example, us citizens who were defrauded by volkswagen and who were reimbursed. we have, however, obtained from the european commission, to which i am grateful, a written undertaking attached to this regulation to study the possibilities of removing this absurd legislative vacuum, which we consider to be a real scandal. i am sure that the people of europe expect this absurdity to be brought to an end as soon as possible.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this europe is once again worse than the first italian republic. it was not enough to destroy the production and jobs of the household appliances sector in those years. in seven years we have lost 20 million pieces of manufactured goods, we have lost 130,000 jobs, we have lost production of kitchens, freezers, air conditioners and washing machines. and the question is: in whose favour? in favour of the productions of asian countries? in favor of the korean manufacturers? today we are going even deeper in this direction and we want to persevere in a wrong direction of march, using the word simplification, using the word 'scalping'. in 1998 the european community established classes a, b, c, d, e, f and g, in 2003 a+ and a++, in 2010 it was not enough and established classes a+, a++, a+++. now they're saying maybe we were wrong, that we need to go back and then scale up those classes. those who invested today, maybe to get to an a+ will become a g, will become a c. these costs, which are now passed on to the enterprise and production, will obviously determine the further direction of our firms and their relocation. so we're relocating our production once again. if this europe really wants to tackle the problem of environmental pollution, it has only one tool: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. producing in some countries of the world puts more pollution. that's the message. secondly, if we want to reduce the cost to the citizen, we have to remove the many taxes on the kilowatt-hour. it is unthinkable that 50% of the cost of a kilowatt hour is determined by the country's taxation, just as it is unacceptable to see energy consumption in several parliamentary chambers not yet rationed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all pleased and satisfied today that this revision of the 2010 directive can finally eliminate the uncertainty and confusion caused by unclear and often contradictory labelling, which led consumers to contradict themselves. that seems to me the most important element, to have brought clarity. i say this to stress its importance because i believe that putting demand, not supply, at the centre of the energy consumption is one of the keys to achieving our energy objectives. a more aware consumer is also more informed and, by making things more convenient for him, is a consumer who goes in the right direction of saving and efficiency, who chooses the right things even at a suitable price, but knows what he chooses and what the return is. i insist on this theme of the question. if we really want to achieve an energy-rigour objective, we must take the citizen consumer into account. on the one hand, this is the lever, on the other hand, it is the lever of technological innovation. i am glad that there is a review mechanism here which will make it virtually automatic to adapt labelling to new technological innovations, without having to re-formulate regulations, delegated acts, etc. so simplification, not the things we've heard, the enhancement of the quality of our european industry, not the things we've heard. we are not working against industry, we are working for efficiency, for energy saving, for the empowerment of citizens and also for the benefit of industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner cañete, in europe we produce very little of the energy we consume and a large part of our energy still comes from fossil fuels. we know then how important it is to take action to promote the energy transition, through increased use of renewable energy, but we also know how important it is to reduce energy consumption and thus increase energy efficiency. with the new regulation on the energy labelling of household appliances and electronic equipment we are taking a step in this direction. we have seen that consumers are very careful and, thanks to the label system, they choose more advanced appliances and also save money at the end of the month on their bill. on the other hand, thanks to this system, industry is developing increasingly effective models to remain competitive on the market. experience has shown us that in several cases, such as washing machines and refrigerators, almost all products have moved into the highest efficiency classes within a few years. for this reason too, it is necessary today to update labels, as we have done, by redefining them in a clearer way, without all those a+s, and understandable to consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy efficiency labels of electrical products such as refrigerators, televisions and washing machines are finally changing, adapting to the digital revolution by linking to an open data base and being made available through the use of qr codes. it will thus be possible, also in europe, to compare the electricity consumption of different appliances at the time of purchase in an efficient and effective way and thus to promote a more conscious and sustainable consumption, based on usage habits and the price and availability of electricity. it is a small, but concrete and important step towards improving the use of resources. however, further work is needed, introducing stricter criteria for the electrical appliance market and obliging manufacturers to use smart technologies that can adapt to energy consumption and availability. the introduction of transparent and clear labelling, which moves from confusing a++ to a simple a to g scale, is a clear step forward in protecting consumers and industry. however, appropriate checks must be carried out to ensure that those labels actually correspond to products with the characteristics indicated.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for all their contributions to this debate. allow me to make three remarks. the first is to say that we have the same labelling requirements for imports. it is not only local manufacturers; imports have to be labelled in the same way as products manufactured in the european union. many of you expressed concerns about the data, but the best way to ensure data protection is for the commission to manage the database and also, with the data, we will be able to adjust the labels more efficiently. on heaters, i saw different positions in the house, but i will say that the commission proposal did not contain a definite requirement to re-scale. we think that it is an improvement that the agreed version contains a timetable and a final date by which the a and b label will only be available for heat pumps, renewables and chp. we also think that the timetable makes sense and is reasonable because it will provide time and incentives to bring down the cost of these heaters to the benefit of our industry and our consumers. finally, i will recall that the energy union is one of the ten priorities of the juncker commission and that ‘energy efficiency first’ is one of its leading principles. in this respect, reaching an agreement on one of the key proposals for delivering real energy and monetary savings to european consumers and business is an important step towards the realisation of any union which aims to provide european union consumers with secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy. this shows that, when there is political commitment and shared objectives, we are able to offer a concrete response to the needs of business and european citizens. let us keep this positive spirit and dynamic in the ongoing negotiations on the ‘clean energy for all europeans’ package proposals that are now on the table of this house and the council. statements by the commission - this is word for word what was read out by the commission at the last trilogue on 21 march 2017: commission statement on financial compensation for consumers: "in view of its ongoing efforts to strengthen the enforcement of union harmonisation legislation for products, the commission - in order to address potential financial loss by consumers due to wrongly labelled products or inferior energy and environmental performance than labelled - should investigate whether compensation for consumers in case of non-compliance with regard to the energy class displayed on the label can be addressed." can the commission support the statement on delegated and implementing acts as proposed by the council? - the statement referred to is the following: statement by the european parliament, the council and the commission on articles 290 and 291 tfeu:"recalling the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making of 16 april 2016, in particular, its paragraph 26, the european parliament, the council and the commission declare that the provisions of this regulation shall be without prejudice to any future position of the institutions as regards the application of articles 290 and 291 tfeu in other legislative files." - the commission can support this statement, as this declaration is in line with the inter-institutional agreement, and can be seen as a perpetuation of a similar declaration made at the time of the adoption of previous energy labelling directive in 2010.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have listened carefully to the various speeches. i am certainly grateful for the compliments, but i also appreciate some criticisms, especially those which have been made of the regulation, which are not instrumental criticisms of declaring something in plenary to attack someone, even by misstating dates and data, but criticisms which are objective. there are indeed things that could be done better and the scaling up of labels, particularly for boilers and boilers, is another point. it could have been anticipated, but i am confident in the clean energy package and we will fight to create a european environment for gas boilers to be phased out of the market in some way, especially in the new rules on energy efficiency in buildings and active and intelligent buildings. i hope, however, that one thing will be resolved as soon as possible - and here i return to the subject of the oral question - and that is that this legislative vacuum in the european union will be closed. european citizens deserve to be compensated if they are defrauded. this applies to energy labelling, as it does to all labelling systems in the european union. without compensation and without control, any labelling system is likely to lack the trust that consumers need and deserve.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today in the plenary for the effort-sharing proposal. this is an important initiative to accelerate the low-carbon transition of key sectors of the economy in europe, representing around 60% of european union total emissions. the latest greenhouse gas emissions statistics, which the european environment agency released only two weeks ago, clearly point to the challenges. emissions, in this sector, outside emissions trading, are increasing again, notably in the transport sector. this debate, and the vote tomorrow, show that the european union is serious about international climate commitment under the paris agreement and that it wants to progress without delay with domestic implementation. at the same time, parliament is also making swift progress on one of the key legislative priorities of the european union, and in the joint declaration on the european union’s legislative priorities for 2017 the three institutions have agreed that the 2030 climate action proposals shall be given priority treatment in 2017. i very much appreciate the hard work of your rapporteur, mr gerbrandy. he would have been happy to be here today but unfortunately he cannot be with us. on this proposal, i want to thank him for the excellent cooperation and i also want to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts in ensuring that parliament’s report could be presented to the plenary before the summer. many of the key elements of what you are proposing for the vote in this house tomorrow are in line with the commission proposals, notably on the national targets and connection between sectors with the use of the flexibilities. this is encouraging for us. as in the commission proposals, this maintains a careful balance of three central objectives: fairness, cost-efficiency and environmental integrity. i also note your efforts to better reward early action, which is also a central issue in the discussions in the council. the lulucf flexibility proposed by the commission is of high importance and its extent should be sufficient enough to recognise the lower mitigation potential of agriculture and incentivise actions promoting carbon sequestration in agricultural soils and afforestation. let me offer a few comments on two key aspects of the rapporteur’s final proposals. firstly, the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) includes a requirement for member states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in effort-sharing sectors by 80% by 2050 compared to 2005. it is true that consistent and long-term emission reductions are a cornerstone of european union climate policy. however, i think it is too early to set national targets and emission trajectories for 2050 now already, without any thorough impact assessments and even before the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has provided its special report. we must also consider the balance with the ets and with a policy related to land use, land-use change and forestry. we should not set in stone now partial long-term legislation only covering 60% of total european union emissions. the commission will address the long-term issues in the context of developing the european union mid-century strategy, which, in accordance with the g7 commission, is to be delivered well ahead of the 2020 deadline. secondly, i note the proposal for a biennial compliance check instead of every five years. this would significantly increase the misery burden of implementation and would not constitute a good example of better regulation. the commission fully supports the efforts of parliament and the council to agree on the ets and non-ets proposal this year. on the ets file, we are in trilogue negotiations and i welcome the renewed efforts to make progress there. i look forward to continuing to work with you on the effort-sharing proposal and bringing it to a successful conclusion with your support.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal on effort sharing is a good start to achieving the 30% emission reduction target by 2030 in the sectors concerned. however, some changes are necessary to better promote long-term predictability, ensure coherence with other policies, in particular the energy efficiency target, and ensure sufficient flexibility and solidarity between member states. effort sharing can be an important driver for decarbonising the economy and for delivering on the paris agreement. the agricultural sector is responsible for 10% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union and therefore has to play its part. agriculture is the sector that will suffer the most from the impacts of climate change, but at the same time there are also agricultural practices that can lead to reduced emissions and offer additional environmental benefits and an additional income for farmers. the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related impacts of the measures, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the impact of the measures on the environment. however, it is essential to ensure that lulucf credits provide for real additional and permanent absorption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the united states president trump is seriously questioning the need to combat climate change, while in britain the government is being formed with the support of those who even deny the existence of the phenomenon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our future and that of future generations lies in a more sustainable society and economy. europe is aware of this and also knows that to achieve results, action must be global, because co2 emissions do not stop at the borders of those who produce them. i call this text on effort sharing a good text, an ambitious text, but also a very pragmatic one, which provides above all for a good system of flexibility for the member states, precisely to enable them to achieve the objectives which are envisaged. if managed well, the transition to a low-emission system is not only good for the environment but also for the flourishing economic growth of our societies. it is no coincidence that one of the criteria for setting reduction targets for individual member states in this regulation is the average level of gdp per head. the efforts made so far are recognised and the specific characteristics of the different areas, from those with a more industrial vocation to those with an agricultural or forestry vocation, are flexibly exploited. nobody is asked to do the impossible, but to contribute the best. effort sharing is sharing of effort. we are going forward, convinced and i can tell you, back from a mission of work in the united states, that beyond the great proclamations also millions of americans believe in us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement is not dead, the paris agreement is forgotten when, as in this amendment to the rules of procedure, we have even changed its title, recalling precisely the actions to be taken in line with the paris agreement. in my view, we are unfortunately far from embarking on a real path that actually looks towards the paris goals, also because the results of recent studies tell us that the possibility of reducing and maintaining the global temperature increase within 1.5°c will not be achieved and could already be achieved by 2030. this should give us urgency for our need to act, especially in this regulation which is part of the second pillar of climate policies along with the ets, another instrument which does not work and which does not encourage investment in clean technologies and truly sustainable production and which above all gives us an example of how the proceeds from auctions are not used in an appropriate way, for example, which should and could be used precisely to improve and invest in mitigation of emissions in the areas instead of effort sharing. no member state has done so to date. unfortunately, we are faced with yet another agreement which is actually making a mockery of public opinion. they're empty words, without any real content. i do not agree with the rapporteur's attempt to keep all the big groups on board, especially the conservative groups who have done everything possible to dismantle this document and its ambition. we are about to enter the trilogue with the council and we cannot afford to once again demolish the ambition of one of the pillars of climate policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner cañete, i think that the subject we are discussing is an important one because it is a transition from theory to practice. after the paris agreement we are trying to put it into practice with the relevant regulations. of course, trump, with a vision that is certainly shortsighted, has taken a different line, but it goes without saying that the american states, the big cities and the big companies tend to say every day, more and more, that instead we must continue to operate along the lines of the paris agreement. europe must be a leader in this, it must be a leader internationally and globally. the proposal that has been put on the table is an interesting proposal. parliament has certainly improved it and corrected some of the mistakes that were there, commissioner, because the early movers, that is to say the countries that had already made a great effort and had already moved forward, were having difficulty implementing the proposal and you recognised, from the first presentation, that there was something to be corrected. parliament has today put the amendments into effect. with the 90 million tonnes of reserve proposed by mr gerbrandy, i think we are going in the right direction. italy will be able to implement this proposal, which was certainly very unfavourable to our country at the beginning. on the other hand, parliament's ambition, which as the epp has agreed to move ahead of the downward curve in the implementation of the agreements, is in the right direction. i think we are doing a good job and we should vote on the proposed amendments. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to a blue-card question. i think the impact of trump's election is a very limited impact for two orders of reasons. firstly, because many states, large cities and large companies want to continue along the lines of the paris agreement. on the other hand, the process of withdrawing from the paris agreement is a complex one, one that takes time, and i am sure that in any case the next american government, whatever its colour, will review its position on the fight against climate change and will have to make up for lost time.
i thank you, mrs dalli, for speaking on behalf of the maltese presidency.
i give the floor to the president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, without further ado.
thank you, mr president, your speech was well received by the plenary, so we are very pleased.
i would now like to invite three former participants in the erasmus programme, representing three generations, to go to the rostrum. (applause)
now i would like to give the floor to mrs alexandra pascalidou. ms pascalidou comes from sweden, and is a writer, television and radio presenter and human rights advocate, but her name is a greek name.
three different languages – english, swedish and greek – but the same european identity. (applause)
i don't know if he's going to speak in spanish, german or english, but now he has the floor, our friend.
germans who go to germany are generally lucky, think of charles v. so erasmus will bring luck to our friend as well.
i would now like president juncker and minister dalli to join us at the rostrum where we will give awards to the three representatives of erasmus and gather for a picture.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would just like to say a few words. i would like to thank today our tireless collaborators fernando, andrea, simona, maria and erica and the activists of the five star movement who voted for us and sent us here and gave us tips and comfort, and all my family and my wife laura who have always been by my side from the beginning to support me in this fantastic adventure, which began more than ten years ago. thank you, thank you to all of you colleagues who voted for us. thank you very much indeed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we have tabled has accepted some of our amendments in favour of the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises, with measures and instruments to widen the pool of potential applicants and, above all, concrete opportunities to receive a grant. that is why i shall vote in favour, even though the text does not resolve any of the serious distortions which have already been identified. research, science and the development of innovations should be instruments for knowledge in the service and interest of citizens. for example, the horizon 2020 programme should be based on european ethical standards and therefore also on respect for human rights and international law. we are seeing the participation of institutions and universities, for example, from israel, linked to the military sector, which are often involved in the occupation of the palestinian territories or which directly experiment and use the results of research projects against the population of the west bank and gaza. this is not only contrary to european values but also indirectly complicit in the violation of international law. this is therefore unacceptable for a european funding programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with 17 000 marine species the mediterranean is a world paradise of biodiversity and fisheries are an economic sector of great importance for the coastal community and the whole industry, especially the small-scale industry. that is why we must find a synthesis between these two elements in the name of sustainable development. the proposal goes in that direction. it stresses first of all the importance of involving all the players in the sector in the definition of the policies to be implemented, including coastal communities, and respecting traditions, and at the same time it stresses the need to protect the mediterranean fish stocks by combating both illegal fishing and other factors such as pollution from oil tankers which put these resources at risk. measures such as bio-fertilisation can help to rebuild stocks, but must be accompanied by appropriate income support measures. in addition, unfair competition from fish imports from places where sustainability is not guaranteed must be tackled, while at the same time work must be done on critical consumption, including through an effective and reliable traceability and labelling system.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too agree with professor starbatty, who spoke before me, that there is a need for a profound critical analysis of the current state of play in relation to economic governance and monetary union. we have a currency which has created obvious imbalances because it has been placed in a non-optimal currency environment. these imbalances are not successes, because it was the citizens who saved the euro, by devaluing wages in the peripheral countries and creating the conditions of competitiveness that the commission is strongly calling for, on the impulse of the neoliberal policies that are demanded by the globalists and the market. with this situation and this analysis, perhaps we can identify what the problems are. in a functioning economic and monetary union there are transfers from surplus countries to depressed areas. perhaps with this intellectual honesty we could try to find a solution. but i do not see the nordic countries that enjoy these surpluses wanting to do this kind of political action and so it is very difficult to be a europeanist at this moment, at a time when there is no intellectual honesty on the part of those who have put 'germany first' - we say so - for several years within the european union. i am sorry to say that the solutions that are being applied also apply the wrong weights and measures because, if we analyse the situation from 2011 to 2013, which led european countries to intervene in banks, we see how there is a distorted situation of competition, where banking systems like the german one received almost 250 billion and created aid situations, which are not allowed today in italy, for example, at a time when the banking system needs to give a strong hand to what is the credit system, which is in turn under pressure from the neoliberal market and the basel rules. the commission's proposal is not a proposal for a single currency, but for a single currency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the commission's document on the deepening and completion of economic and monetary union. it is an ambitious and realistic document, which in many respects reflects the proposals put forward by this parliament and which must now be transformed into a concrete roadmap. as far as the financial union is concerned, the measures necessary for its completion are clear: guarantees and deposits, backstop that's just waiting to be finalized. as far as economic and budgetary union is concerned, however, we must move quickly beyond the possible scenarios and proceed with courage and determination to the scenario indicated by parliament and also presented in the paper, namely the creation of a trade-off between strengthened and binding mechanisms for the convergence of economic policies and the building of a budgetary capacity for the euro area, to be placed in the union budget and used for stabilization functions, the most effective of which is undoubtedly that of a european unemployment benefit. in this connection it is worth pointing out that this allowance does not require prior harmonisation of labour market rules, but on the contrary can help, together with other instruments, to create the conditions for greater convergence in this area. it is also important to make clear that, as parliament has shown, both the convergence guidelines and the fiscal capacity can be achieved by permanent treaties, without recourse to intergovernmental solutions, and on the basis of the community method, which is the only one that can allow for appropriate democratic control. in this connection, i welcome the commissioner's invitation to formalise the dialogue between parliament and the commission on the semester, which for us is not an arrangement but an interinstitutional agreement. as regards the safe asset issue, this is a very important and positive issue which naturally requires careful consideration to avoid risks to financial stability. finally, as regards the implementation of the fiscal compact, the lesson of recent years is that there is recovery and confidence, partly because the rigid policy of austerity has been overcome. so integration of the fiscal compact if there is its reform.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a genuine economic and monetary union requires first of all the promotion of the general interest of the euro area and greater transparency in monetary and financial decision-making processes. greater european integration, particularly at the financial level, can only help to strengthen europe in the globalised market. a possible roadmap for 2025 would include the issuance of sovereign bond-backed securities for the euro area, the establishment of a common backstop for the resolution fund and a simplification of the rules of the stability pact. we must, in essence, complete the europe of maastricht by providing it with a financial institution of reference. to do this, we must seize the moment and exploit the positive signs of deficit reduction across the euro area, creating a framework in which responsibility and solidarity go hand in hand, starting with the instruments for guaranteeing sovereign debts. but first we must ensure that the economic and social aspects converge, especially at a time like the present, marked by new nationalisms and populisms that are rowing in the opposite direction, calling for a return to the european states in competition with each other.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a euro which, together with the stability and growth pact and the fiscal compact, has been hanging citizens, exacerbating inequalities, accentuating the effects of the crisis and leading thousands of people to commit suicide. the paper on the euro points to it as a successful instrument of convergence, to be preserved or even carried forward. and with what? with the banking union, with the capital market union, with tools to satisfy the bulimia of big finance? the euro was supposed to bring prosperity, but instead it increased poverty and misery. the euro was supposed to promote integration, but instead it fuelled resentment and hatred. the euro was meant to be a means, but it has become the end of all political action, to be defended at all costs. but europe today is also made up of countries which do not have the euro and which are in efta and is made up of many citizens who would like the union of peoples, cohesive in protecting the social welfare and rights of each one. a union that is enhanced cooperation and solidarity. no paper has yet appeared on such a union. while you are dealing with finance, the euro and the markets, there are more than 500 million citizens out there waiting for a europe that has not yet been seen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that transparency and access to information are non-negotiable rights. we therefore find it shocking that the hazard of a product such as glyphosate should be assessed on the basis of scientific studies produced by the same industry that produces glyphosate, including the selection of data that is most suitable for the industry itself. we find it shocking that any legitimate request for access to the files is systematically denied because these data are classified as 'confidential'. we believe that the whole regulatory system must be changed and re-thought because it will never be possible to have independent studies as long as industry itself is funding these studies. we are not just talking about herbicides, but also about animal feed, meat, milk, milk products. i mean, we're talking about public health, so it really seems to me the bare minimum to expect that scientific assessments are really accessible, transparent and in any case independent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to ask you a direct question: do you not personally think that it is more correct to use only published and peer-reviewed studies for scientific evaluation, so that the european institutions can make a scientific evaluation and then allow a potentially dangerous product like glyphosate to be placed on the market? i believe that this is the path that the citizens of europe are asking us to take and it is clearly the only way forward to restore credibility to the european institution that we represent. i'd also like to ask you if you have any reassurance. i would ask you, at a time when glyphosate is to be banned, whether i would not like other more toxic and more dangerous substances, such as those which are resistant to some of the new gmos we are authorizing at community level and which are resistant to 2,4-d, the component of agent orange used in vietnam, to be the future of agriculture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must be frank, commissioner, you have not convinced me. you're missing the point. not bad environmentalists and dangerous extremists, but court records show through emails and transcripts that there are shady deals, shady scams and undue pressure. because if everything's in order, you're playing cards. i have faith in science, but i don't have faith in people who manipulate scientific research for their own ends. that is why we must be clear. that is why we need a committee of inquiry and why, in the absence of such clarity, the extension for ten years would be a slap in the face to the precautionary principle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have discussed glyphosate in this house and i have a strong feeling that it will not be the last. the recent publication of the monsanto papers has raised reasonable doubts about the credibility of some studies sponsored by monsanto itself, which were among the documentary evidence used by efsa and the eca for the safety assessment of glyphosate. for weeks now, there have been rumours about the possibility of renewing the authorization of this active ingredient for another ten years, while dozens of campaigns to ban it have already been launched in all european countries. the commission must first regain credibility in the eyes of the european public by obtaining detailed information on allegations of unfair pricing by monsanto before granting any authorization. when public health is at stake, transparency and the availability of credible scientific studies are of the utmost importance and the european union has a duty to respond appropriately to the legitimate concerns of millions of consumers.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, since the beginning of our mandate we have dealt many times with the democratic republic of the congo and with problems of various sizes and nature. we have political leaders who manipulate the constitution - as it happens, we can call him a political leader - in order to stay in office. we have vast areas under the control of armed mercenaries, a serious and widespread violation of fundamental rights, international crimes, raw materials bloodied. the situation is deteriorating at a glance. it is true that the european union has no binding powers in matters of foreign policy, but it could act consistently in the areas for which it is competent, and i am thinking above all of trade policies. the problems of the congo are certainly complex and not all of them are due to the speculation of multinational companies in order to take advantage of large reserves of cheap precious materials, but this is certainly one of the factors determining the instability of the country and i am sure that more decisive action by the european union on the responsibility of multinational companies would allow for significant progress for the congo and beyond. the congo is a rich country, mr president, rich to death, but in the real sense of the word.
mr president, article 52 of the congolese constitution states: 'all congolese have the right to peace and security. other yet violence and insecurity are rife throughout the country. articles 23 and 24: 'everyone has the right to freedom of expression and information. other yet any voices that speak out against the regime are violently suppressed. article 15: sexual violence is a crime against humanity. other yet thousands of women in the drc still have not found justice. article 58: all congolese have the right to enjoy national wealth. other however, the state does not guarantee any equitable redistribution. article 47: the right to health and food security is guaranteed. other yet 400 000 children in kasai are currently victims of a humanitarian catastrophe. finally, article 70: 'the term of office of the president of the republic may be renewed only once. other and yet, to date, no date for the elections has been decided. the drc must take back its future and become the greatest democratic and prosperous nation it should have been for a long time. the european parliament resolution calls for responses to all these systematic violations of constitutional principles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the old ghosts have reappeared in the congo, where violent internal tensions are brewing into open conflict. on the one hand, the political situation is stagnant, on the other hand, there are clashes in the province of kasai, with the discovery of numerous mass graves. in the midst of civilians, the suffering humanity of a people who have never known a peaceful transition of power and who do not enjoy the great riches of the underground. the window of opportunity for dialogue with the new year's agreement has closed. six months later, that agreement is dead in the water and this has produced violence in kivu and the north, in ituri to the very rich katanga in the south, to arrive at the drama of kasai. absurd violence and trampled human rights that demand truth. this situation is no longer tolerable. i hope that there is an awareness in the european union and in the international community that action is needed now, more rapidly than ever, to ensure a political transition. congo needs this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is left of the drc? i can only speak of geography, since there is very little left of the republic and the democratic republic in the drc. this crisis actually has a name and a surname, that of joseph kabila, and his claim to violate the constitution by postponing the elections, together with his entourage, by any means, to remain in power and continue to exploit the immense resources of a country that is very rich and very poor at the same time. the agreement of 31 december 2016 must be implemented, but unfortunately the talks are still at a standstill, as the country sinks into a hell of violence, denial of fundamental rights and freedoms, child soldiers, mass rape, malnutrition, war crimes and crimes against humanity. we call for the cotonou agreement to be finally implemented, including article 96, which is often an agreement in words and not in fact. the union must play its part as a mediator and must play its part with all forms of diplomatic pressure to ensure a genuine and peaceful political transition towards elections which are also credible. the cry of pain of the congolese people cannot and must not be a distant echo for us.
in writing. the political and social situation in the democratic republic of congo is seriously worrying. it is suffering from political repression and continuous conflicts, which have been repeated over time. in recent years, there have been numerous reports of human rights violations, particularly in relation to freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration, the increase in politically motivated trials and the use of force during peaceful demonstrations. it is absolutely essential that an independent commission of inquiry be set up to shed light on the terrible events of the past and to put pressure on the congolese government to respect, promote and protect fundamental freedoms, which are the foundation of democracy.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president trump is closing an arms deal with saudi arabia worth a total of 320 billion euros. a new cholera outbreak has affected more than 80,000 people, causing 676 deaths, and the prospect of up to 200,000 people being infected in the coming months. the continuous bombing by a coalition of states, led by saudi arabia 320 those verified by the un , indiscriminate bombing, often and willingly also on civilian targets, with bombs also bought by the war industries of some member states of the union, including the italian one, of which saudi arabia is the sixth customer worldwide. the latest of these bombings hit a treatment center for cholera patients on sunday night, killing and injuring an unspecified number of people. a child dies every ten minutes, a figure confirmed by the un. the data is frightening: 3 million internally displaced persons, 10 000 dead and 44 000 wounded since the beginning of hostilities. this is the biggest humanitarian crisis of this century, with over 9.6 million children in need of humanitarian assistance. this is what's happening in yemen: a proxy war, a massacre in the shadows. maybe it's because russia is not involved, maybe it's because refugees, unlike other cases we know well, are all internal, locked in by the geography of the country, sandwiched between desert and ocean, and so for some, they're less of a concern. yemen is a country in pieces, destroyed. what was one of the oldest centers of civilization in the entire world, where the kingdom of sheba was born and died, is now just rubble. this situation is suffering civilians and is being exploited by terrorists, who like a virus are taking over and spreading in the country. we have allocated 116 million euros, but we need more than 2 billion. so we must do more, but above all this is not enough. we voted last february for an arms embargo on saudi arabia. this is the only real strong and necessary signal, one of the few tools we have at our disposal to show that we are serious, but even here many want business as usual and so we become accomplices. we are asking for a political solution, the only acceptable solution, although extremely difficult, and yet children continue to die, one every ten minutes. and those bombs are also european bombs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as i have said, yemen is torn apart by a civil war in which national interests have been joined by international ones. as always, the most acute costs of the conflict are borne by citizens who find themselves caught up in both a conflict and a migration crisis with an outbreak of cholera. in the first months of 2017, the humanitarian crisis affected 27 million people. to add to the dose and further aggravate this crisis is the cholera that has claimed nearly 800 lives. in march i had the opportunity to meet the yemeni minister for human rights and, as i did today, i expressed my deep concern at the country's difficult crisis. now we need to talk straight. the only solution i see is a ceasefire, shared and lasting. there is no chance of mitigating, much less solving the humanitarian crisis or controlling the spread of the epidemic without a solid and lasting ceasefire, which we absolutely need. the european union must work towards this objective.
the s&d group has also expressed its concern about the lack of transparency in the way the commission's proposals are implemented. despite the clarity of these statements, there is a recognition that these guidelines need to be implemented so that they can be useful not only within our borders, but also encourage third countries to take decisive action to ensure a safe environment for those who wish to express their views. every time an individual is forced to censor himself or is the victim of intimidation and harassment, the entire society to which he belongs is weakened and the direct consequence is a narrowing of civil space. examples of violations come from around the world, from neighboring turkey, where a large number of journalists, professors and philosophers are forced to choose between expressing their opinions and their safety, or from russia, where activist alexei navalny was arrested again on monday. in the face of these scenarios, which we are sadly witnessing, we must always bear in mind that the european union has potentially effective instruments, such as trade agreements, to press for these rights to be respected also outside its own borders. it is also true that these violations exist within the borders of the european union, but we must take up our role as guarantors of human rights in the world.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, on 9 march 2017, the european council discussed the situation in the western balkans. the heads of state or government stressed the eu’s commitment to the region and reaffirmed their unequivocal support for the european perspective of the western balkans, in full respect of the basic principles of conditionality and own merits. today we focus on kosovo’s progress in 2016. however, more generally, i would like to stress the importance of kosovo’s stability and of its continuous efforts to advance further on the european path. we welcome the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with kosovo and the first stabilisation and association council, which both took place last year. the eu-only agreement, which is without prejudice to member states’ positions on status, provides the contractual framework for cooperation between the eu and kosovo. it is important for kosovo to implement the comprehensive reforms to meet its obligations under the saa in order to fully benefit from the opportunities it brings. we welcome the launch of the european reform agenda in november 2016. the kosovo leadership is responsible for ensuring its thorough implementation, with the objective of improving the rule of law, socio-economic development and building a track record of saa implementation. it is key that kosovo further intensifies its efforts to improve the rule of law, including judicial independence. it also needs to further advance its fight against organised crime and corruption. we welcome the steps taken to increase the number of high-level corruption and organised crime cases being investigated and prosecuted. we encourage further progress in strengthening a solid track record of convictions. we also note progress in fighting radicalisation, extremism and terrorism, and we encourage further efforts. effective promotion and protection of human rights throughout kosovo should be pursued, including the full protection of cultural and religious heritage. furthermore, the kosovo authorities should address the inclusion and protection of persons belonging to minorities. this includes additional efforts to ensure a safe environment and the safeguarding of their property rights, as well as the strengthening of social cohesion. progress in the process of normalisation of relations with serbia is essential and underpins the development of relations and cooperation between the eu and kosovo. we urge kosovo to swiftly implement in good faith its part of all past agreements achieved in the eu—facilitated dialogue, in particular the establishment of the association/community of serb—majority municipalities, and to engage constructively with serbia in formulating and implementing future agreements. we concur with you in welcoming the recent agreements on the implementation of freedom of movement and telecoms. we look forward to a swift appointment of judicial personnel into the kosovo system in order to ensure the functioning of an integrated judiciary. we also look forward to the opening of the mitrovica bridge, as agreed between the two sides. the council will continue to monitor closely kosovo’s continued engagement towards visible and sustainable progress so that kosovo and serbia can continue on their respective european paths. neither should block the other in these efforts, and both should be able to fully exercise their rights and fulfil their responsibilities. the high representative played a key role in promoting additional progress in the dialogue. we also welcome the agreement reached over the extension of the eulex mission until june 2018. we urge kosovo to continue to cooperate closely and effectively with eulex, and to contribute actively to the full and unhindered execution by eulex of its mandate. we welcome the fact that kosovo met its remaining obligation on the establishment of the specialist chambers and specialist prosecutor’s office to investigate allegations of international crimes committed during and after the 1999 conflict. all authorities in kosovo should comply with their requests for assistance. kosovo has made significant progress in meeting the requirements of its visa roadmap, which led to a proposal by the commission, in may 2016, to transfer kosovo to the schengen visa-free list. as rightly noted in your resolution, such a decision can only be taken if kosovo meets the two remaining requirements: the ratification of the border/boundary agreement with montenegro, and the continuation of the strengthening of its track record in the fight against organised crime and corruption. we share your concern about the incidents of violence in the assembly throughout 2016. it is important that, following early general elections, all political parties and local stakeholders show responsibility and ownership and engage in a constructive dialogue with parliament, as the key forum for political debate. finally, we very much welcome the signature of the framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of kosovo in union programmes. it is of utmost importance for kosovo to take full advantage of these programmes. we are looking forward to the european parliament’s consent for the conclusion of this agreement.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, first of all, i would like to thank the parliament, in particular the rapporteur ulrike lunacek, for the report on kosovo. we believe that this is a balanced report and is in line with the main findings of our 2016 commission report. last sunday was a crucial day for kosovo and its democratic development. i would like to thank this house and especially alojz peterle for its strong support for the eu election observation mission. this observation mission was deployed in record time. the european parliament has significantly contributed to making it possible. in most of kosovo, the election day passed calmly and peacefully. it is a sign of kosovo’s democratic maturity that people generally were able to cast their ballots freely and without hindrance. however, we do share chief election observer peterle’s concerns about several aspects of the elections. any incidents of intimidation and pressure as witnessed during the electoral campaign are unacceptable. it will be essential for kosovo’s democratic development that the findings of the observation mission are taken seriously and implemented as a matter of priority. now that elections are over, kosovo has no time to lose. based on the democratic will of the people, we expect a new government to be formed and begin work without delay. a new governing coalition will face huge expectations and challenges. the dialogue with belgrade needs to move ahead. the people of kosovo expect decisions on visa liberalisation. the rule of law, economic development and education need to be given the highest priority. broad societal consensus on the eu reforms will be necessary to navigate through these various challenges. one of the most important priorities the government will have to tackle immediately is delivery on the conditions for visa liberalisation. kosovo has made progress on its track record of high-level corruption and organised crime cases. this must be a continuous process and one in which momentum must be maintained at all times. i can assure you that we know how contentious the border demarcation agreement with montenegro has become. it will now be for kosovo’s new government and parliament to deliver on the expectations of its people. we are ready to support kosovo every step of the way. once kosovo has fulfilled these conditions, the commission will give its green light to the european parliament and council. beside these political challenges, kosovo’s priorities should remain the rule of law, economic development and education. kosovo needs to become an attractive place for business, provide citizens with high quality education and reduce the very high unemployment levels, in particular amongst young people. the incoming government will need to show strong commitment to addressing the systemic weaknesses in the rule of law, as we have frequently pointed out in our reports. the commission is providing strong support for the implementation of these priorities through substantive financial assistance and technical advice. for its part, kosovo needs to keep pace with the rest of the region, to promote economic growth and foster political stability, which is essential for the security of the western balkans as a whole. to achieve this, we have jointly agreed programmes with kosovo: the european reform agenda and the economic reform programme. these should serve as guidelines for concrete deliverables. this is the priority for now and the immediate future.
i would like to thank mrs lunacek for her work. this report, in addition to describing the state of our relations, is particularly useful in focusing our attention on the various crucial points which still prevent kosovo from full integration. the result of the important elections last sunday saw the so-called war wing, as the local media calls it, composed of a coalition led by haradinaj, get the largest number of votes, but it would not seem sufficient to support a government without alliances with other political forces. our expectations are, of course, to see the birth of a government that will guarantee the country the stability necessary to continue the process of political stabilization and integration of kosovo into the european context. however, we must be aware that haradinaj's victory will not make relations with serbia easier, a country which, as we know, has issued an international arrest warrant against the former commander of the kosovo liberation army. the european union will play an important role in this context. as the report rightly points out, there remains a high level of concern about corruption and organised crime, two factors that are a serious problem for the country. in addition, despite the appreciable economic improvement and the increase in tax revenues, it is essential to promote structural economic and social reforms, especially as regards employment and education. finally, i would like to ask you to consider the fact that the failure of five member states to recognise kosovo is in fact hindering the process of integration. a change of course could be useful and would allow for an improvement in relations between kosovo and serbia. i think that the european parliament needs to show more courage, because that would help the european union's political action in kosovo and the balkans even more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report acknowledges that there is no freedom of expression or at least that it is slowly moving in this direction, with threats to journalists, systemic corruption, country of storage and transit for heavy drugs, low conviction rate in cases against human trafficking, country of transit and destination for women and children victims of trafficking, presence of armed groups, involvement in organized criminal activities. in short, the description of what is normally called a rogue state. however, the report argues, as alice in wonderland does, that kosovo has made efforts to counter legalization extremism, while admitting that many foreign fighters have already returned to kosovo and are not being monitored and prosecuted. so it seems to me a strong contradiction. the european union's spokeswoman, for her part, continues to promise visa liberalization for a country like this, which is mainly an exporter of crime and islamic terrorists and is a danger to europe, a danger to us all.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council of 22 and 23 june (2017/2625 ((rsp)).
before i give the floor to president pittella, i would like to say that it will not be possible to grant blue card applications today because the time is very short and we have two important guests who will be participating in our working day. i also wanted to send a message of solidarity from the european parliament to the city of london for the serious fire which is destroying a skyscraper in which there are wounded and missing people. so we are approaching the city of london, once again struck by a dramatic event.
i would like to make a few comments on the report by mrs may. whoever wants to win is always on the verge of losing everything. and a thank you to the leader of the british labour party, jeremy corbyn, for the great victory that we have achieved, which is a victory of courage in the political and programmatic proposal and also a victory of a correct conception of brexit, neither hard nor soft but right and fair. a joke about terrorism: if we want to be serious, the first thing we have to do is to strengthen the cooperation of the intelligence services, the rest is propaganda. on refugees and immigration, we have the surveillance of the external borders and the infringement procedures, albeit late, because some member states have been blocking the scheme of relocating refugees for some time. i am sorry to say this to the council and not to the maltese presidency, which i very much thank for having the european commission's proposal on the revision of the dublin system in the council as a closed book, not even leafed through. it is a serious and shameful fact that this proposal has not even been open to debate, whereas parliament has worked diligently and is working diligently. the problem is not just that of refugees, mr juncker, as you know very well and as commissioner avramopoulos knows. there is a big problem with the flow of illegal immigrants and we have to get one thing straight: if we want to reduce irregular flows, we must ensure legal flows, that is, open legal channels for immigration. this is the main road, along with the other one, that of a serious partnership with africa, not a barter - we give some money, a little, to africa and in return they accept the return, the repatriation - but a real political, economic and social partnership that allows us to solve the great challenges that africa has. juncker spoke about it, with reference to climate change, the issue of education and the issue of democracy. as long as africa is the prey of multinationals that gobble up huge profits and give no return to african citizens, as long as there is no democracy and we do not help them to build a democratic system and an autonomous and indigenous development, we will not solve the issue of illegal immigrants, because there are two ways: they either come to us or they go to the boko haram terrorists, there is no other way for those young people, for those girls. we have to offer perspective. if we offer this prospect to africa, we also offer a better prospect to europe.
thank you, but it's not by the book. i'm sorry about that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is paying dearly for the failure of european management of migration flows. there were 181,436 arrivals in 2016 and about 64,000 since the beginning of 2017. italy has planned to spend 4.6 billion euros on immigration this year, one billion more than in 2016. the european union's aid is ridiculous: the last appropriation of 58 million corresponds to about 3% of the 4.6 billion. so it is a violation of the principle of equitable sharing of responsibility laid down in the treaties, even though italy is a net contributor, that is to say, italy gives more to the european union than it receives. the dublin regulation, although declared dead, still forces italy to send back more migrants than italy itself has relocated to other member states. the council's refusal to allow the revision of the treaty thus provides a dismal picture of a europe incapable of finding effective and shared solutions. if the council continues to be an expression of national selfishness, it will not only be the reform of the common european asylum system that will fail, but the whole european project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to tell my colleagues that last sunday millions of italians went to the polls to elect their mayor, and that it happened, for example, that the mayor of lampedusa, who had become the symbol of hospitality, awarded a unesco prize and taken by renzi to the obama white house, lost the election, as did many other mayors. so what's going on? should we say that italians are no longer supportive? no, italians are a people of solidarity, a people you praise for their generosity and hospitality, and we must continue to do so. however, to explain what is happening, i will use the words of carlo nordio, an italian magistrate who has been the protagonist of all the dark moments in our country since the 1970s. he says that it seems that the inexorable logic of numbers has finally been discovered, which is independent of utopian aspirations of solidarity. when a room is full, no one can enter. and that's what's happening in italy. the vast majority of municipalities therefore refuse to accept new members, regardless of the political affiliation of the directors. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. i hear from these benches too much useless and empty rhetoric, which is in danger of becoming solidarity with these criminal human trafficking organizations. stop it !
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my solidarity with mayor giusi nicolini. there are so many items on the agenda for the next european council. i shall confine myself to a few observations on the phenomenon of migration. the maltese presidency recalled the daily tragedy on the central mediterranean route and president juncker outlined the achievements on migration issues, made possible by parliament's role as co-legislator, calling on all member states to take responsibility, or else the infringement procedure, which has already been launched against three member states. the punitive measures must be accompanied by far-sighted political initiatives such as the partnership with africa. the maltese presidency must remind the european council of the procedure which applies to the reform of the common european asylum system, namely the ordinary legislative procedure. i therefore hope that the european leaders will discuss the legislative proposals on which our committees are working with a great sense of responsibility. there's no room for fantasy. there is no room for alternative solutions.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you so much for this useful exchange which i will convey to the president of the european council. let me use these concluding remarks to make a more general comment. recently, a tangible sense of unity, urgency and responsibility has been added to our actions. this should also encourage us, parliament and the council to deliver results more rapidly, united by the same objective and showing that we are able to meet the challenges that the eu is facing. the presidency needs your ideas and your energy. it needs your flexibility and your sense of responsibility to deliver on the guidance provided by the european council. we have had many achievements in the past five months, but there is much more work to be done ahead of us. so let us keep this sense of urgency alive.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. we're probably on the eve of the council of the turning point! the agenda of the summit includes for the umpteenth time the hot topics of the day, which are immigration, security and defence. but this time we hope that the fruitless discussions and the backsliding on integration will finally be followed by a qualitative leap forward. the revision of the asylum system and the overhaul of the dublin treaty are now essential decisions. it requires solidarity and foresight. national selfishness has failed and this parliament has already shown that. there is a strong majority for the establishment of a common defence and security between the european states. the union must finally have a capacity for intervention and a fund of its own from which to draw for military expenditure. the council meeting next week cannot ignore the expectations of the citizens on these issues, who are waiting for europe to give them a new, concrete impetus.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on president trump’s decision to withdraw the us from the cop 21 climate agreement (2017/2729(rsp)). the paris agreement has been a historic achievement of the international community, the first ever global commitment to address climate change and its consequences. while we regret the decision taken by the united states of america’s administration to withdraw from this agreement, our long-standing commitment and determination to lead global action on climate change must not relent. we europeans will not miss the opportunity that the paris agreement represents for our citizens, for our planet and for our economy. tackling this global challenge also entails working with our industry for new investments, new technologies and more sustainable growth and jobs. the european parliament has been at the forefront of climate action within the european union, and today there is an important vote on this. our overwhelming vote in favour of this agreement made possible its ratification and entry into force. we must be proud of this achievement and we must also continue to work with the united states, its companies, states and cities on this and other fronts. we have set ourselves the most ambitious target in the world. we have the most advanced legislation, which we are strengthening now, showing our continuous commitment. we were fundamental to this global agreement, as we were able to forge a strong alliance between developing and developed countries. this multilateral spirit was fundamental to the success of the cop 21, and for this i want to thank commissioner cañete and the commission for their strong engagement in this issue in which the nations of the world, big and small, united to defend a higher cause. today we have the honour to have with us mrs hilda heine, president of the republic of the marshall islands and chair of the high ambition coalition. madam president, you know very well the effects that climate change can have, especially on the most vulnerable. your testimony today is of the utmost importance for us. madam president, you have the floor.
the president of the marshall islands will stay with us because i think it is also important for her to know our position. we want to be at the centre of the debate on climate change.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the beauty and the vulnerability of the marshall islands are the figure of our planet and they are the opposite directions that we can go in, because of our choices or because of our choices. we can go towards the beauty, health and safety of the planet, but we can also go towards disaster. a tweet he loves tweets to donald trump. i didn't think there could be a worse president of the united states than george bush, but i have to believe it again because there is no limit to the worst. it's reached the pinnacle of its worst, and i hope it doesn't get any better, and it's leading the planet into disaster, but we're going to stop it. we, together with the progressive forces of the world, we as european forces, but together with all the great social, political, institutional, associative and non-governmental organizations, we will stop the disaster of trump. europe must be europe, as it has been for years when it built the single market. that was a big goal, and today that has to be the big goal. we are not naive. trump is doing this not just because he's a little bit like that, but because he wants to reduce the cost of american manufacturing. this is unfair competition and we must take countermeasures, which means also thinking about tariffs. let us think about it, but of course, if there is unfair competition, we must know how to respond. we have a duty to preserve the prospect of life, beauty and health for our children, for our grandchildren, for the whole world.
the president of the marshall islands and i are leaving the plenary. madam president, thank you for your engagement and for your speech. thank you for your cooperation with the european union. the european union and the european parliament will support your position. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to some estimates, the withdrawal of the united states from the paris agreement would lead to a theoretical increase of about 1.4 million tonnes of co2 per year until 2025 and would cause serious damage to the economy and agriculture. we're talking about numbers that are so out of the ordinary that we can't just sit back and watch. in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, the circular economy, the implementation of agenda 2030 and the paris agreement, this is the ideal place to plan for a more sustainable future. the european union has responsibilities not only towards its own people but also towards the least developed countries of the world. it is time to take back a central position in the science and technology landscape and to increase investment in the sector. but if this europe is the same as dieselgate and fossil fuel financing through the efsi and the ecb, then it is clear that to change the climate, first of all, a change in the political climate is needed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, your speech was very moving and very incisive. we are all vulnerable, but especially so are the marshall islands, which are, with a thousand islands and 50,000 people, at risk every day. despite trump's decisions, a critical voice is growing around the world with announcements of alliances between big cities and us states, with statements from the rest of the world and citizens and with europe ready to play a leading role. the world is looking to europe and we have already achieved important goals, starting with the very rapid ratification of the paris agreement which i had the honour of leading on behalf of parliament, but we will commit ourselves to doing even more, not forgetting the need to ensure the competitiveness of our industrial world. it has now been shown that the transition to the new sustainable economy is also a winning strategy in terms of economic growth and job creation, and this is the direction we must go. madam president, and i think i speak for the vast majority of us, know that the european parliament is with you and europe is with you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i have greatly appreciated the words that have been spoken in this house on this debate, in particular those spoken by president pittella on this ill-advised choice by donald trump to withdraw from the paris agreement. pittella also spoke of health, he spoke of the beauty of the territories. the problem is that president pittella is a member of a party which has decided to double the number of oil stations in italy, effectively devastating our lands and our seas. so i ask you: how do you think you're gonna stop global warming if you're allied with the oil companies? my question is: how do you think you're going to fight climate change, if what you say is the exact opposite of what you do?
mr president, welcome to the european parliament. it is an honour and a pleasure to welcome you today in strasbourg. a month ago, mr president, we received mr moussa faki mahamat, the chairman of the african union commission. your visit is therefore part of the process of bringing together and strengthening our partnership with the african union and its member states. i would like to commend the extraordinary work you have done in your country: emerging from a civil war, strengthening institutions and the rule of law, restoring, dynamising and diversifying the economy by creating an industrial base, and improving social indicators. côte d'ivoire ranks among the world's fastest growing economies, with an estimated 8% growth this year. it can and must serve as an example for other countries on the african continent, particularly in west africa. however, much remains to be done: the fight against poverty, infrastructure, education, health, access to clean water and electricity. we do not forget that côte d'ivoire, like europe, has been hit by terrorist attacks, notably in grand-bassam. this is a scourge we cannot solve on our own. we must cooperate in this area, with the help of regional organisations such as ecowas and the african union. europe and africa also share the same challenge in managing migration flows. we need to get to the root of the problem by investing more and better in real economic diplomacy to create growth and jobs. the arrival this morning of the president of the republic of the marshall islands reminds us of the importance of taking action for sustainable development and the climate. the cote d'ivoire is also suffering from the effects of climate change, with drought, floods and coastal erosion, and youth and employment, peace, security, human rights and crisis management are concrete areas which we will probably be dealing with at the end of november in your country, in abidjan, at the africa-european union summit. mr president, your presence here is very important and we are delighted to have you with us today. we want to look at africa through african, not european, eyes. that is why our cooperation is and will be crucial for peace, for stability, for the fight against terrorism, against illegal immigration and against climate change. mr president, once again, thank you very much. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, mr president, for your speech. the european parliament will be a protagonist in the dialogue with your country and with africa. we share the same challenges: youth unemployment, the fight against terrorism, illegal immigration and climate change. you have stressed the importance of population growth. that is why europe must engage much more with you if we are to solve our problems and help you, working together to try to reduce unemployment and give hope to all young africans. we have a duty to prevent the dream of young africans to live in their own country from being destroyed by various problems. we want to be with you all, and parliament will play a very important role in this. thank you again for being here with us. you have friends here, and our door will always be open to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the title chosen for this debate is one hundred per cent accurate in conveying the problems we are facing today. first of all, the word "refoundation" is used, and it is clear that when you ask for a refoundation it means that something has been destroyed. here europe has been destroyed by the policies imposed by the european union. the term europe is used instead of european union, and it is time to make citizens understand that these are two different concepts: europe is one thing, the european union is another. let us stop with this rhetoric and let us dismantle this 'there is no alternative' rhetoric of those who want us to believe that the future of europe can only be the european union. the european union has failed in three key areas: in the case of the values, because the treaties are based on completely wrong values; ensuring democratic institutions, given that most of the union's institutions are not democratic today, the european central bank being an example; and finally, in proposing a prosperous economy. it is clear that the european union has failed in economic progress. the only way to rebuild europe, in my view, is to abandon these failed treaties and rebuild europe on the basis of equal cooperation between sovereign states. this is the only way, because sooner or later the enormous conflict between the social model proposed by the treaties and the social model proposed by the national constitutions will emerge. the treaties speak of competition, the market, profit, labour as a commodity - a concept typical of the social model of the treaties, which is the grossly mercantilist german liberalism. the italian constitution, for example, in its first articles, which set out its social model, speaks of work and the protection of work as a fundamental element of production. that is not happening in the european union today. it is clear that if we want to move forward, the only way is to dismantle this european union, because it is the culmination of two very dangerous projects: the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that if we are to think about the future of europe we must be clear about the foundations on which we are building. the more this structure is shaken, the more solid must be the reference to our roots, which are the values of democracy, peace and justice. we should not think that these are old-fashioned or unnecessary values, because democracy in europe is all the more necessary when we have authoritarian tendencies in some member states. peace is necessary when we see conflict outside the union, with spikes of conflict even within it. and social justice is all the more necessary when we see that, especially in recent years, inequalities and difficulties have increased for many parts of the population. so these are the foundations which, if they have ensured a successful integration, must be strengthened in the face of a crisis situation such as the one we are in. in the white paper, mr juncker sets out some hypotheses, but i think we cannot choose which europe we want, perhaps one type of europe in one member state and another europe in another. we don't have five choices. we have two. we either win together or we lose apart.
in writing. today's debate is about re-founding a europe based on values. well, when we talk about values in this context, i think we cannot help thinking of the charter of fundamental rights, which i believe is the very basis of the european union's existence. apart from the many fine and acceptable declarations of intent made by parliament for the protection of fundamental rights in almost every part of the world, we have been witnessing for some years now cases of the mortification, if not even systematic violation, of principles enshrined in the charter in some member states. unfortunately, however, the complaints repeatedly raised by parliament - i would remind the only fully democratic institution of the union, since it is directly elected by the citizens - have not been followed up by adequate action by the other institutions. so far, article 7 of the treaty has never been invoked and it is not clear what alternative measures could be taken to prevent violations of fundamental rights within the eu. i am not, therefore, in favour of the optimism of this europe, too often stuck in a deadlock, of a council in which the selfishness of national interests seems to prevail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr muscat, i would like to list two or three points which emerge from the malta papers: the trade of the 'ndrangheta, the calabrian mafia, emerges, the names of the biggest figures in the san luca clan, the protagonist of the world cocaine trade, emerge, the arms trade emerges, a character like mohsen rezaian emerges, a prominent international figure in the arms trade, also affiliated to hezbollah, with two companies, america holding and serafiner trading, both under maltese law. they're not generic words. the newspapers are talking about valletta today a city and a country that i have come to love this semester as a second tripoli. this is an indictment, it is a disgrace, at the heart of all arms trafficking and everything else between italy and libya, the worst there is. you are involved and you have not missed the trafficking of ngos which facilitate the trafficking of illegal immigrants, as recently denounced even by the libyan guard. and you come to us to talk about commitments in general? you should have come here and told us what you are doing against these realities, not these generic accusations, these realities, documented with names and surnames, emerged from the investigation of these ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. for years, the eu has turned a blind eye to the existence of tax havens within its borders, to which large sums of money have been transferred, to the detriment of other european countries, often the same countries, which were subject to harsh austerity measures. between 2012 and 2015, malta allegedly stole some eur 14 billion in lost tax revenues from other eu countries through a distorted tax system, based on an effective corporate tax rate of 5% and no taxation on interest and royalties. the panama papers revealed links between figures in the cabinet of the maltese prime minister, who is still in office, and some of mossak fonseca's client companies. yet the eu continues to block the adoption of ambitious transparency measures and the fight against harmful tax practices, starting with the indispensable blacklisting of tax havens within the union, in order to achieve real cooperation in combating large-scale international tax avoidance and financial crime. the malta files now reveal further criticisms linked to the laundering of money from mafia activities through some companies registered on the island. the commission has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the role of malta as a crossroads for the illicit trafficking of arms. the scandal is linked to the persistent shortcomings in anti-money laundering legislation, on which the commission and especially the council do not intend to make any concrete progress.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear rapporteurs, exactly one year ago the commission was here to discuss with you the mid-term review of the european investment plan, the juncker plan, and also to announce its intention to extend this european fund for strategic investments. at that time we found that we had about 65 projects: infrastructure projects and industrial investment projects that had already received efsi funding. in addition to these, and even more importantly, 185 agreements were concluded between the european investment fund and intermediary banks, between the fund and private banks, all to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. today, we can say that we are going much further, with 224 projects and 275 agreements with intermediaries. i am therefore proud to say, on behalf of jyrki katainen, that the efsi is now well on track to deliver on its investment promises, as it is indeed about closing the investment gap in europe. there is, i believe, a very broad consensus on the success and usefulness of efsi. over the past two years, it has proved to be a powerful instrument for supporting investment in the european union. eur 194 billion of total investment has already been mobilised in the member states, benefiting 420 000 small and medium-sized enterprises or start-ups. the eib group, which i would like to commend, has supported projects and small businesses in many sectors and regions in, of course, all the countries of the union; all this for the benefit of growth and jobs in europe. i am also pleased to inform you that some of the shortcomings or imbalances rightly singled out in your report have in the meantime been reduced. efsi now covers that was of course of high importance all eu 28 member states. compared to gdp, the investment currently mobilised is highest in estonia, spain, bulgaria, portugal and finland, which balances the initial geographical concentration. investment platforms are developing, even if in the beginning slower than we would have hoped for. but of course, more needs to be done, and we are determined to make efsi a success for everyone and everywhere. in your report you point to a potential contradiction between the quantitative and the qualitative goals of efsi. here, let me again refer to the statement the commission made in this chamber last year that demonstrates how much we are in the same logic and how much we share the same concerns. the main issue in this is to focus on addressing market failure. the main issue is not to make it bigger. one thing on which we have to be very careful is to provide financing for new innovations which will strengthen sustainable development of our economies in social and environmental terms, for example financing through investments which will promote the circular economy. here i quote the speech of last year: 'honourable members, dear colleagues, three main issues are identified as falling short of expectations in your implementing report: additionality, transparency and geographical diversification'. these are precisely the items we decided to address through the efsi 2.0 regulation. i am therefore pleased to see a broad convergence of views between the commission and the european parliament on the areas for improvement. although divergences appear in the means put forward to overcome the efsi's initial weaknesses or defects, most of them relate to the level of ambition for efsi 2.0. the commission does not believe that this is the time for a complete overhaul, because it would cost time and also damage investor confidence but we are not looking for a quick fix either. you can be assured that the commission does not put quantity over quality i insist on that and is as vigilant about the appropriate use of the eu guarantee as the european parliament. we share the same view. it is precisely because we consider the improvements in terms of additionality and transparency so important that we want them to be implemented as quickly as possible. while we might disagree on some proposals for the immediate way forward, let me underline that the commission looks with great interest at some of the medium-term reflections you formulate for a potential efsi 3.0. the commission welcomes very much parliament's call for proposals which go further to see how we can, on a permanent basis, support investment in europe, revive it, boost it and give it a boost. all this shows that the european parliament has an ambition, a commitment to this investment plan, the juncker plan. i want to assure you all that your reflections, your reports will be a source of reflection, a source of action, a source of thought in the context of our own thoughts and reflections on the future multiannual financial framework, which will be our very important task. in my view and in the commission's view, it is absolutely crucial that the next budget of the european union is a budget that is primarily focused on investment, because investment is the key to innovation and innovation is also the key to our common future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european fund for strategic investments is certainly one of the most characteristic political initiatives of the present commission. we can say that the fund has been successfully launched and has achieved tangible results, helping to revive investment in europe at a particularly difficult stage. the committee on the internal market stressed the importance of the fund ensuring greater additionality, being designed to support projects with high levels of risk and ensuring effective coordination with the other funds. the fund can be an important instrument for the better functioning of the single market and we therefore stress the need to strengthen the third pillar in order to make the european union's regulatory environment more secure, homogeneous and investment-friendly. projects in the area of infrastructure, broadband, high speed and digital platforms will have to be central to growing our economy and completing the single market.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the regi committee believes that there are many positive aspects of the efsi, including the resources committed, the concrete support to a great many businesses and citizens in the territories, the reactivation of funding channels that had suffered from the crisis, causing investment to collapse in many parts of europe. we have also put forward some proposals to improve it and to improve its impact on the real economy, for example through better synergy and more effective coordination with the structural funds. we believe that cohesion policy remains the main source of european investment and that it must be preserved and updated. but cohesion policy works for programmes, whereas the efsi works for projects. we therefore believe that both can achieve even greater results if they are able to work together consistently, including through integrated plans covering the whole of europe. it is also important to mention the positive work of the national investment banks, which have helped small and mediumsized enterprises a great deal, especially in technical and administrative support.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the efsi programme has failed to close the investment gap in the european union, precisely because there is a very strong crisis of demand and this is linked to the restrictions that have been introduced in our treaties, which should be reviewed. by the way, there will be a discussion shortly on the introduction of the fiscal compact into the eu regulation, and we should oppose this introduction precisely because it would encourage austerity policies that are depressing for the economy and depressing for investment. we need more public investment. in the juncker plan, in particular, we look at how many of the projects have had little impact from an environmental, economic and social point of view. i am sorry, there is not this additionality that the commission has promised because, going to the efsi website, we see how many of the projects are in high co2 impact infrastructure, so refineries, gas and motorways, and so i also wonder how the greens can support this kind of projects.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the efsi, the juncker plan, came into force in 2015, had already granted guarantees for eur 21.5 billion at the end of 2016 and reached eur 200 billion in may this year. it is not just cold numbers, but infrastructure, modern rail networks, fibre optics in our homes, more environmentally friendly buildings, new technologies. we have done a lot, but it is still not enough. with the renewal of the plan we must commit ourselves even more. we must ensure that there is real additionality, by ensuring that the eligibility criteria for projects are really geared to the most risky investments, but that they are useful for the citizens, by facilitating access to efsi instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, in particular by supporting the excellent work done so far by the national promotional banks, and finally by allowing intervention also for third countries, where there are clear benefits in terms of efficiency or economies of scale. in conclusion, i would like to thank my country, italy, which, with 3.7 billion in investment, is the first country to benefit from the efsi guarantee, which is of course a source of pride but also a responsibility for our government.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the efsi has been in operation for a year and a half, which is enough time for a first budget and to take account of the indications recorded so far in order to improve the way the plan is implemented. the main problems seem to be the differentiation of the objectives and conditions of financing of the efsi from other similar sources of financing, which in fact leads to competition with other funds. there is real added value in the complementary use of the esi funds and the esi funds, but regulatory issues complicate this complementarity. the geographical distribution of projects presents limits to uniformity, which must be remedied. the commission has also to overcome the serious difficulties in setting up investment platforms, where the need to finance smaller projects is not adequately met. finally, efforts in the context of the european investment advisory hub should be stepped up to provide adequate technical assistance and to strengthen the communication of the efsi so that cooperation can also be improved.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of the economic crisis which has been raging in europe for the last ten years have had a silent victim: the children. innocent victims are growing up in marginalized settings, in families that do not have the means to meet their basic needs, in the shadow of societies where values have been turned upside down and where certain abominations are simply classified as collateral damage. there are more than 20 million poor children in this inert europe which, instead of looking after their happiness, is looking after other interests. today's children will be tomorrow's adults, sold in the name of austerity policies that rob them of dreams, hopes and prospects. and as our role as the voice of the last is lost in the noise of nothingness, their laughter is extinguished. every moment we miss, every opportunity we miss to defend them makes us complicit in our failure to do our most important job, that of caring for our children, not just those who are waiting for us at home in the comfort of a secure life, but far more than those for whom our actions may determine survival or doom. my friends, let us remember that the world changes by our example and by our work, not by our talk, and perhaps it would be useful to go to a school of poverty to contain the disaster that wealth is producing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe, as we continue to imagine it, cannot but take charge of our most precious human capital, our children. the numbers are dramatically true. but what and how many faces does poverty have? to ensure the wealth of opportunity means to offer useful tools to defeat it. it is not enough to take refuge in the comfortable interpretation of the responsibilities linked to the crisis and its consequences, in particular the contraction of public spending and the labour market crisis, at a time when fears are extinguishing hopes and erasing the future. this is the time when politics must take full responsibility for giving back opportunities. we need resources, of course, but these must be geared to fostering a new sense of community, of social cohesion. in short, investing with the clear idea of promoting a model of educational community, linking the public sector to local actors to rethink the places of life and the educational and training models and to respond to the demand for accessibility and opportunities of a new agenda of rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, poverty and social exclusion are two words that must be spoken together. the prolonged recession has widened the number of households that are in poverty and increased the scissors of inequality in our society. children are the main victims of poverty. in 2015, more than 400 meps signed the written declaration "investing in children" in which, among other things, we called for the inclusion of a specific and binding indicator on the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion and we stressed the need to invest at european level on childhood and not only in economic terms, but also through access to care and participation in social life and education, to offer all children, in all countries, the same opportunities. we need a social dimension for europe now more than ever. we expect a great deal from the new social pillar, commissioner, in order to overcome inequalities and to ensure decent living conditions for all children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, millions of children around the world are deprived of their childhood and their right to grow, learn and play. according to a recent report by save the children, more than 16,000 children under five die every day from easily treatable diseases, 156 million children suffer from growth-related problems due to malnutrition, 168 million are involved in child labour and 28 million are fleeing wars and persecution. that's unjustified data. in europe too, there are still many children at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the percentage of children who can't afford to eat meat or fish for two consecutive days has dramatically doubled since 2008. europe and the member states must make a concrete commitment to combating child poverty by increasing the effectiveness of social support. the children of today are the men of tomorrow. einstein, who knew about progress, said: there is no great discovery or progress in this world that will last as long as there is even one sad child.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today it is still difficult to define the collaborative economy. yet it moves, it grows, it transforms our society, our way of living and working. it creates extraordinary opportunities and at the same time risks undermining established legal and social categories. thanks to the digital revolution and online platforms, with a click, we can rent a room anywhere in the world, share a ride with someone, buy a meal from a neighbor, find a gardener to cut the hedge. opportunities that consumers increasingly value and use. the collaborative economy is born, on the one hand, from technological innovation, but, on the other, from the increasingly widespread need for a better use of resources, with the effect of stimulating the biodiversity of the economic forms of society. a mosaic of different experiences involving large platforms, now truly multinational, and small start-ups strongly rooted in the territory and the communities of reference. in recent years, the collaborative economy has developed in europe more through court rulings and often contradictory national and regional rules than through a shared strategy, resulting in a fragmented market and provisions that are difficult for operators to interpret. the commission's attempt to define a common approach in its communication is therefore to be welcomed. our report goes further, calling for a european strategy. first of all, we invite the commission to examine the existing legal framework, considering whether it is appropriate to introduce general principles and specific rules which can promote harmonious development. the objective should be to avoid different rules applying to similar services between the traditional and the collaborative economy, both in terms of market access and taxation, thus ensuring fair competition between online and offline operators and between them and prosumers. the distinction between professional and non-professional is an essential point for the definition of fair and balanced rules. the evaluation of market access criteria can be a great opportunity to simplify the rules for operators in traditional services as well. we also believe that a common legal framework can foster the growth of european platforms, which today see uncertainty and fragmentation of rules and the unavailability of venture capital as the main obstacles to growth on a global scale. this is demonstrated by the fact that only one of the top ten platforms producing economic value in europe is european. the online platforms, the engine of the sharing economy, will have to assume greater responsibility towards consumers through clear information, towards service providers by ensuring the reliability of ratings, and towards public authorities through fair tax cooperation. finally, the sharing economy can be a stimulus to new employment, particularly for those with lower employment rates. however, it is not conceivable that in this sector workers, whether employed or selfemployed, should have fewer rights and protections than everyone else. let me conclude by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs of the committees of inquiry, for the excellent cooperation they have had in recent months, not without a frank and thorough debate, which i believe has been fruitful in the preparation of this final report.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues because the text for the vote is excellent and includes many messages from the itre committee opinion which i have followed as rapporteur. these include the recognition of the growing role of the collaborative economy in self-production, self-consumption and distribution of renewable energy at the local level by prosumers in local energy communities, as well as the potential of distributed ledger technologies that enable and certify peer-to-peer energy exchanges without intermediaries. it is important that the commission address this intersection between the collaborative economy, the digital economy and new energy models in the best possible way, so that citizens are truly at the heart of the energy union and are able to actively contribute to the transition to a more sustainable, democratic and resilient energy system. finally, i would like to stress the important role that open software, open hardware and the creative commons have played and will continue to play in the development of the collaborative economy, as was expressed by a large majority in the itre committee. i therefore ask my colleagues to consider the amendments tabled by my committee.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. an opportunity for growth for all has thus been reduced to a business for the few. in this wild west, the result is a marketplace of unfairness, where a few players concentrate resources, damaging media pluralism, industries and consumer rights. this text has the undoubted merit of capturing this situation and of pointing out market distortions, but it seems to me too weak in suggesting solutions. we must demand more strongly for consumer protection, especially for minors, and for the protection of workers, and for full editorial responsibility for online platforms. to do this, we must have a directive on e-commerce, which is now 17 years old and therefore completely out of date.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our vision of society puts the whole citizen at the centre and therefore online platforms for the collaborative economy that do the same should be supported. this requires a regulatory framework which is not generalising but which can be adapted to the different sectoral categories. it is also essential to distinguish between commercial and non-commercial activities. providing your own flat for a few days a year is quite different from systematically providing it all year round or from providing several apartments. so we must create the conditions to help the local economy, avoiding abuse and unfair competition. it is this kind of economy and this kind of service that must be favoured. and that means putting the citizen at the center, backed by a healthy economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sharing economy, if promoted and developed in a responsible way, can create new opportunities for consumers and businesses and make a significant contribution to the economic growth of the european union. in recent years, this phenomenon has seen rapid growth in terms of users, transactions and revenues, redefining the way products and services are delivered in many sectors. various business models operate in this market, allowing the exchange of goods or services worldwide. unfortunately, legislation on this subject is still fragmented and very often the regulations of collaborative platforms depend on local and national regulations. a european strategy on the collaborative economy should therefore be developed to define a clear and harmonised legal framework and ensure compliance with tax obligations. finally, it will be very important to develop stricter international standards on social protection and privacy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the sharing economy is a rapidly growing reality which can now be seen as a steering wheel for a competitive european economy and which, when applied to products and services, can offer undeniable opportunities for consumers, workers and businesses. opportunities, however, are accompanied by a number of challenges and critical issues that need to be addressed. in fact, as is often the case in the face of new phenomena, the reaction has been individual rather than collective. some states, unlike others, have attempted to regulate the phenomenon at regional or local level, but this fragmentation of regulation is likely to produce potential distortions and unfair competition within the european single market. the need for a coherent legal framework is therefore clear, setting out minimum standards for the protection of competition, consumer and workers' rights, taxation and corporate social responsibility. clear common rules can allow the collaborative economy to grow and bear fruit at the employment and social level.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission welcomes the parliament’s own—initiative reports on the collaborative economy and platforms debated today under the digital economy. this debate, as you know, is only a first step in what should be a continuous and joint effort between the institutions to credibly respond to the many and decisive emerging and future challenges that the rise of the platform—intermediated economy will raise. having said that, we cannot forget that platforms do not operate in a legal vacuum, and that an effective enforcement of existing legal instruments should be the default course of action. an innovation—friendly approach is clearly in the interests of existing as well as new platform firms. consumer protection, competition, law and data protection legislation are particularly important in this regard. this is why i welcome your timely deliberations, exchanges and reports.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the members who have spoken, thank you to the commissioner for the attention paid by the commission, but above all for a point he has made which i should like to stress. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposals. it is a first issue on which we could work immediately and find guidelines to guide the debate, to give legal direction to the european framework. i think we need to avoid a debate between those who are for too much regulation and those who think the free market can just provide. i think we need to work on a european framework because if the rules we have today were sufficient, we would not be faced with 28 national laws, 100 regional laws, with each city deciding how it feels best about the issues and challenges that the collaborative economy, in some particular sectors, highlights. so i think we should think about this, how we can help the sharing economy to be a strength of the development of the european union. we have some peculiarities in our collaborative economy, we have small platforms that are very deeply rooted in the ground. let's make this a strength, let's give it the strength to grow. this is certainly a matter of a more homogeneous regulatory framework and also of the resources and risk capital we will have to put into play. that's the challenge we have. it's a tough call. the european platforms have no shortage of intelligence, creativity, innovation or technological capabilities. we need the confidence of the european institutions, we need an incentive to do better and to establish ourselves in the world.
in writing. the concept of the 'sharing economy' is extremely multifaceted and changing, although it is based on two well-known basic criteria: the free movement of goods and services and the use of the internet. but this economic model, in the forms of sharing economy on demand, collaborative consumption and capitalism based on crowdfunding, being inextricably linked to the economy of exchange and technology, now brings supply and demand into communication in more than real time and facilitates transactions, but it is influenced by the strengths and weaknesses inherent in these instruments. there is no doubt that we are moving towards a model of predictive economy, in which the final consumer is called - i would say by necessity - to adopt collaborative systems, in which he believes he can find a greater sense of confidence in access to the financial and tax market. once again, then, these new economic phenomena, which will soon be pushed to the barter trade, denote rejection and distrust towards the banking union, which has not yet solved the crucial challenges of security, data privacy, consumer protection and fair competition.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at least at 10 p.m. i hope that this house can make simple things simple and not always complicate them. the historical commercial and economic value of ports obviously requires concrete action. i'll try to say three. we must defend our ports, that is to say, we must put an end to the use of our italian ports as a gateway to the underground. an investigation should also be opened in the light of the findings of the european court of auditors on the port of rotterdam; i would like to remind you of audit 23 of 2016 which says that the port of rotterdam does not apply the necessary controls on incoming goods, and therefore an investigation should be opened on this, i say the commission. the other theme is: leave the taxes to who? leaving taxes of course from port to port for the services of that port. it is unthinkable to squeeze out, to plunder the virtuosity of, say, the port of genoa, to the detriment of the port, in order to distribute it to other ports that are less efficient, less capable.
i think we can all agree that european democracy needs democrats to make it really live. so it is clear that we must find ways to help our democracy develop. as you said, political parties and foundations play a vital role. we have a responsibility to provide them with guidance, to help them develop, but also to ensure that their actions are in line with the fundamental principles of the union, in particular the transparency of their funding, but also the issues that my colleague mr wieland has mentioned. the resolution co-signed by the four political groups goes in this direction and asks the commission to address the issue, addressing issues such as the level of co-financing, the multi-party system of members, possible abuses related to the use of funds in a way contrary to the fundamental rules of european democracy. we know that you have started to think about it and we suggest that you propose amendments as soon as possible to meet the requirements of the european citizens and of european democracy. we ask you to act quickly, because the elections are fast approaching.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, european industry is the main economic activity and makes europe the world's leading exporter. industry accounts for 80% of investment in research and development and many discoveries and research are made there, which have applications in many other fields. we know that the continental manufacturing sector suffered a sharp drop in productivity and a fall in the employment rate during the years of the crisis. whole regions of our europe have been deindustrialised and have entered into crisis. only recently has the share of the industrial sector in european gdp been recovering. but today industry is at a crossroads between innovation and loss of competitiveness, and the european union must do its part, it must relaunch its own specific industrial policy. that is the meaning and purpose of the question. we are calling for a more specific and courageous european industrial policy, with a coherent and holistic action plan that goes in the direction we are heading but which needs further impetus to support the competitiveness of our enterprises, with the active support of the commission and also of the member states, on the basis of certain priority axes. the first is innovation. the industrial revolution is investing, sustaining and shaking the entire industrial sector. industry 4.0 is an indispensable transition, especially for smes, for small manufacturing companies that cannot do it on their own. then you have to work alongside the corporations. smart manufacturing is the strong theme of this policy. research shows that companies that have high and advanced digital manufacturing also have a higher productivity and revenue premium. so there's a very strong link between smart manufacturing and the productivity of companies. the eu must also encourage convergence between the different national systems. we cannot have a europe with 27 industry 4.0. we need a framework of convergence, a community framework, because there is too much diversity in performance in this field today. there is one country that is the front runner and the others are the back runners, but this divergence is not good for the whole european economy. the european economy needs greater convergence, so that all member states have more advanced smart manufacturing capacity. but digital innovation is not just technological innovation, it's changing business models, it's changing the world of work. the industrial policy must therefore also go hand in hand with a training policy, preparing the necessary digital skills. the second point is investment. we have many tools that have been put into place. but i think we need to first of all strengthen those who have been most successful, most successful, and then make them more complementary. i think of the structural funds, i think of horizon. the industrial pillar of horizon - i say this to the commissioner because it is certainly sensitive to this - must also be better managed by industry, and stronger in terms of dedicated resources, because it has shown that it works well. and then i am thinking of the juncker plan. the new juncker plan, if it is to bring about significant investment for the transformation of european industry and the european economy, must do much more for small and medium-sized enterprises and their capacity for innovation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is not enough to support export incentives, but we must also support the strengthening of firms so that they can take their place in the global value chain, which is now european and international. we need a more balanced trade policy, in the sense of openness, of an open economy, but one which is attentive to reciprocity and mutual benefits, and which is also able to defend itself - we say this to the commissioner responsible for international trade - with a greater capacity for defence than our industry, especially where there are countries with very strong overcapacity. the subject of the green economy and the digital economy i don't have time to deal with. i would just like to conclude by saying that there is time and there is a need for a new european research council.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very happy to have this opportunity for some further discussion of european industrial policy and grateful that european industry is thus being put in the spotlight as – i am quite sure – a major driver of growth, employment and innovation in europe. the recent commission reflection paper on harnessing globalisation likewise underlined the need for a strong industrial base in europe. some facts, very briefly: european industry provides 50 million direct jobs, equivalent to 20% of our european workforce. europe is the global leader in many industrial sectors which supply high-value jobs, such as engineering, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, aeronautics and automotives, and european companies play a leading role in markets for future technologies. the commission, as you know, has taken a novel approach from the outset to supporting industrial competitiveness and transformation of the eu economy. in every single initiative that we take, we consider the impact on our industry and on jobs. what have we done so far? for a start, we have been investing in innovation, and, of course, i mean here the opportunities being created by the investment plan and the horizon 2020 programme. what, i think, is even more important is that direct investment for innovation is improving the climate for private investors. then there was, for instance, our work last month on the european venture capital funds, added to which are the revamped tax and regulatory environment, the initiatives – over 200 – for further reduction and simplification under the regulatory fitness programme, and, of course, all of the measures under the single market strategy that we are working on. we are also focusing on skills. last year we took a radically new approach in our new skills agenda for europe. in this way, for the first time really, as industry is very well placed in our new skills agenda, skills have come to the centre of the industrial policy agenda. in addition, we are focusing our policies on new technologies and new approaches. let me just mention the circular economy package, in which we are now providing very practical ways for industry to turn recycling of resources into strong real business opportunities. similarly, we are very clear about the fact that the future is digital. we are deploying all means across the policy agenda. we work from financing research to facilitating standard setting. for example, we want to ensure that our industries make a successful transition to this new digital age and we will soon be reviewing our policy on key enabling technologies. i think that this point should also be stressed because the policy dates from 2008 and a lot has changed since then – 3d printing and autonomous cars were unknown at that stage, so it is high time for a review. finally, we are providing sector-specific solutions when needed, from cars to steel, from space to defence. so i personally think, and i know that you know this, that we are now ready and very well prepared, as ms toia said, for a coherent ‘holistic european industrial strategy’. this commission is 100% committed to fostering a strong industrial base in europe to face both the challenges of globalisation and, of course, the fourth industrial revolution. our approach is result oriented. we need to take concrete actions to modernise the economy at the eu’s different levels – eu, national and regional. and we will coordinate national industrial strategies, in particular those related to digitalisation. one way of doing so is to continue the dialogue with industry and with the member states, so on the last day of february i inaugurated the first european industry day, an event at which we all agreed to explore the priority areas, in other words people, territory and technologies. let me just refer briefly to each of them. as regards people, given the major transformation in the eu economy, we really need massive upskilling and reskilling of our workforce to avoid widening social gaps. regarding territory, industrial transformation really happens at regional and local level, so we need to empower regions and to respond to the challenges that we are facing and, of course, make the best of the opportunities. and as far as technologies are concerned, more needs to be done to accelerate the spread of technology in order to close the productivity gap. that is the major issue here. the recent commission reflection paper on harnessing globalisation picked out exactly the same three areas and points for europe’s response to globalisation. in its most recent discussion, last month, the competitiveness council adopted conclusions on industry and for the first time in many years showed that there is wide agreement among member states on the importance of industry and the need for a european industrial strategy. not a single country was against this, so that was really a very strong signal from the member states as well. as they say, we are all friends of industry now. the european commission is the force for strengthening industrial competitiveness. our efforts have to be bolstered by the member states. and we also need parliament’s support to put in place a legislative framework to facilitate industrial modernisation. we need to have an open debate on how europe, working together, could do more for european industry. finally, i also want to underline that when measuring our results, the results of our policies and activities, we could look far beyond the 20% target for manufacturing in our economy. so once again, i would like to thank parliament for today’s discussion. i am quite convinced that we need a common vision for the future of european industry, and your contribution and support are vital to that end.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i do not want to repeat the numerical value of european industry in the next minute and a half. we will all be talking about important numbers, small and mediumsized enterprises, large companies and so on during this debate. i will make one point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. we have set ourselves the objective of achieving 20% of the gross domestic product of industry, but this has remained theoretical. today it's 2017 and we're at 15 percent. so let's be honest about this. if we set ourselves binding, very fair objectives, for example in the context of environmental protection policies in relation to the great climate change emergency, but we do not set ourselves binding objectives for the industrial sector, we do damage to both climate policies and industry, because it means that if they are binding and these are not as objectives, it means that they do not have the objective of protecting the environment, but of changing and weakening industry. so, since we as europeans support a model of economic development in which man is the protagonist and counts more than a fungus, because he creates value and also creates capacity for climate protection, let us make the industrial objectives as binding as those, and this will be an act of great sincerity and honesty, industrial and cultural.
commissioner, i listened to your speech very carefully and i must say that i was disappointed as well. after three years of the commission, i do not think that just saying general phrases will help european industry much. i think, as do some of my colleagues, that better conditions must be created for european industry, but that is certainly not the way to regulate. on the contrary, the european commission should be doing its job by tearing down regulations. the internal market needs to be improved and enhanced. there's been a lot of talk about a digital agenda. if concrete steps were taken in this area during this election period, it would certainly help the industry. we certainly need to talk about specific investment in innovation and research, which is also important. i would also like to mention, in the short time i have, the international trade policy of the european union. free trade agreements are a great help, as we have seen with the agreement with south korea, which we recently evaluated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must have an industrial policy strategy that protects the interests of the member states, a strategy designed to maintain the competitiveness of european industry on a global scale. the commission has repeatedly stressed the objective of bringing the share of industry in the eu's gdp to 20% by 2020, which is difficult to achieve unless we are more ambitious and focus more on innovation and sustainability. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the green economy is the way to the new industrial revolution. only if we have the courage and the ability to take it seriously will we establish a competitive advantage for our system. the action should focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting productive collaboration through intelligent management of distribution channels, integrated management of networked logistics and interoperability of information systems.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 may, afgan mukhtarli was walking peacefully through the streets of tbilisi after an evening with his colleagues when he was stopped by men in georgian criminal police uniforms, hooded, pushed into a car, beaten and then taken across the border to azerbaijan with 10 000 euros in his pocket. afgan is now in baku in the custody of the border police, facing charges of smuggling, illegal border crossing and violence against police authorities. afgan is a brave investigative journalist like his wife. he had already fled to georgia in 2015, fearing for his safety, while continuing to investigate the holdings of the family of azerbaijani president aliyev, and it is known that those who want to pry too much into the affairs of the azerbaijani president never have an easy life in his country. the question is: how can you disappear in tbilisi and find yourself in baku? we call for a swift and transparent investigation, but we cannot accept that azerbaijan on the other hand always takes one step forward and two steps back. political prisoners must be released, the persecution of journalists must stop... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know by now, the moratorium on the death penalty in pakistan has long since been lifted and pakistan now has one of the largest populations on death row in the world, over 8 000 people. at the same time, there is still article 295 of the criminal code, the famous blasphemy law, which is actually very often invoked to punish matters other than religious matters and instead to persecute the innocent and even to keep under control dissenting religious minorities and non-governmental organizations. the social media ban is yet another black page in the country's history, as prime minister nawaz sharif ordered authorities to remove all blasphemous content from internet pages and bring those responsible to justice, with a 23-year-old journalism student, mashal khan, even found himself lynched by his university classmates for insulting islam during a discussion. pakistan is a key trading partner for us and must behave as such. we therefore call for a return to the moratorium on the death penalty and for a review of the blasphemy legislation, which has too many holes and too many black pages.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in pakistan, in addition to a genuine humanitarian emergency - since 2014 1 340 children have died as a result of malnutrition - we are also facing a serious and compromised situation in terms of respect for human rights. pakistan, according to a report by amnesty international, is one of the five countries in the world with the highest number of death sentences. activists, lawyers and all those who defend human rights are increasingly under attack in the country, hateful laws remain, such as the blasphemy law, and no progress has been made on the moratorium on the death penalty. it is clear that europe has not done all that it could. but it is time to put more pressure on countries like pakistan to end the repression of all those who are working against the death penalty and for the defence of fundamental rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, we consider pakistan as a key player in the region and we are committed to strengthening our dialogue on many issues. i could just mention they are areas as diverse as peace and security, the rule of law, good governance, human rights, migration, trade and investment, sustainable development, climate change, energy, education, culture, science and technology. this is the reason why we aim at deepening our partnership with pakistan through a strategic engagement plan which is currently under preparation. still, despite some progress made in the gsp+ process, the gap between the institutional human rights framework and the situation on the ground in pakistan continues to be significant. in all its contacts with pakistan the eu continues to stress the importance of reintroducing the moratorium on executions. the number of executions has been reduced in the second half of 2016 and the first half of this year. we hope that this trend will lead to a definitive stop of executions and hope that this will set a direction towards finally abolishing the death penalty and towards the full respect of all international human rights obligations by pakistan. yet, the extension of the military courts for another two years really constitutes a worrying element and the eu has been repeatedly calling for a comprehensive judicial reform. we are equally very concerned about the situation of human rights defenders in pakistan. apart from pressure and intimidation by the authorities, human rights defenders are also subject to threats, violence and even murder by extremist militant groups, and an even more worrisome trend is that allegations of blasphemy are being used to silence human rights defenders. yet pakistan has established a national commission for human rights. it has adopted a human rights action plan and introduced legislation for the protection of women and children. however, there are big differences among the provinces of pakistan as well as strong resistance against any change from religious political parties. the eu is supporting several projects to improve human rights awareness and protection in pakistan with a total amount of eur 97 million. we therefore encourage pakistan to improve its human rights record and we stand ready to continue working together with pakistan in addressing this challenge, and of course, i will pass all of your questions to the vice-president/high representative ms mogherini.
in writing. in pakistan, the government is implementing a very serious policy of repression. persecution, intimidation and torture of human rights defenders, political opponents and members of religious minorities are commonplace. the death penalty is one of the most used tools by the pakistani authorities to silence real and alleged opponents, and all those accused of blasphemy. in the face of this situation, i am very concerned for the lives of all those innocent people who are suffering from the repression of the islamabad government. how can the european union tolerate this? i would remind you that the european union's action with third countries is based on opposition to the death penalty and respect for human rights. for these reasons, the commission has a duty to urge pakistan to abolish the death penalty and to restore a state of democracy and respect for the rights of the pakistani people. i believe it is essential that the european union pays particular attention in the present and future negotiations with pakistan, so as not to compromise on the respect of human rights by the government of this populous asian country of almost 200 million people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of human rights and the death penalty in pakistan, because the eu cannot remain indifferent to human rights violations and those who defend them. in particular, the resolution mentions the tragic case of asia bibi: i believe that the eu should strongly urge the pakistani government to resolve this and not allow it to happen again. asia bibi, the pakistani christian woman who was convicted of blasphemy by a pakistani court in 2010 and sentenced to death by hanging, despite a stay of execution, is still in prison and her family forced to live in a hidden location. if the sentence is carried out, asia bibi would be the first woman to be "legally" executed in pakistan for blasphemy. i believe that the government of pakistan should do everything possible to ensure the safety of asia bibi and her family, even in light of the "historical" treatment of victims of blasphemy charges and their defenders, such as the murder of christian minority minister shahbaz bhatti and muslim politician salmaan taseer.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the european union is negotiating a new economic partnership agreement with indonesia, a country that has so far benefited from an ever—closer relationship in various fields, especially the economic and commercial ones. over the last decade, the indonesian economy has more than tripled, and this is largely due to the european union’s contribution, which is the preferred destination of indonesian exports, as well as one of the largest investors. in addition to that, indonesia benefits from the generalised scheme of preferences (gsps). in this context, there is a wave of growing intolerance towards ethnic, religious and sexual minorities and, in general, we have not seen the protection of human rights and the respect of international obligations. therefore, as long as this situation persists, i strongly believe that we cannot make a new agreement. there cannot be future arrangements as long as the indonesian government resorts to the death penalty and fundamental freedoms of citizens are injured. an agreement will be possible only if we see concrete action and real change in government legislation.
after the barbaric terrorist attacks of the past few weeks, another horrifying tragedy has struck the city of london. we have all witnessed dramatic scenes again: a burning skyscraper, with many dead, unfortunately, with many missing. these are scenes we never want to see. unfortunately, we risk the situation getting worse and more people getting killed. this is a tragedy for the city of london, a tragedy for the united kingdom, a tragedy for all of us. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to thank all those who have been involved in the rescue operations, the hundreds and hundreds of firefighters, police men and women. people who risked their lives to save the lives of others. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to join me once again in observing a minute's silence in memory of the innocent victims of the london tragedy. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but today i am proud to say that the era of roaming in the european union is coming to an end. this is a great achievement. (applause) citizens, students, business travellers and tourists will be able to move around the union without any extra costs for their calls or use of the internet. we are making another important part of our single market, of our being european. i thank parliament for bringing a long-standing battle to a successful conclusion, if we remember that the first time this house spoke out against excessive roaming charges was back in 2005. we have fought for a steady decline in the number of roaming services since then, until we have achieved the complete abolition of roaming services, which we can see today. i would like to thank by name all those who have contributed to this remarkable achievement over the last decade, but the list would be too long. however, let me mention the colleagues in this parliament who have brought this long battle to a successful conclusion: the following persons are also included in the list: mr. del castillo, mr. kumpula-natri, mr. toia, mr. ford, mr. rohde, mr. harbour, mr. matias, mr. reimon, mr. tamburrano, mr. rübig, mr. tošenovský, mr. ferreira, mr. borrelli, mr. fontana. (applause) i would like to thank and a special mention should be made of our colleague and vice-president of the european commission, viviane reding, to whom we are all grateful for her great contribution. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you so much, viviane, for your commitment and your hard work. when i was vice-president of the commission, i was at your side and i can testify to your work on roaming. thank you very much. (applause) i would like to thank
i thank this house for its strength and tenacity in waging a just struggle for years. i hope that the member states will apply the agreed rules seriously and diligently. i can confirm, i think on behalf of all of you, that the european parliament will ensure that everyone can really enjoy this benefit from today. it is another important step towards a stronger union closer to our citizens. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the host told us that he had good wine but it would be very unfortunate if we were to get drunk on the numbers he keeps giving. the efsi's credentials were woven from the data provided by the efsi's designers. there was no independent evaluation and we bought into the narrative of a successful investment plan that supports small and medium-sized enterprises, that has added value and that drives growth and employment. but none of this is the case: there is no disaggregated data on actual benefits, the multiplier effect has been overestimated, there is no information on the jobs created, the operating methods are opaque and the figures are sometimes classified. even the european court of auditors has made it clear that the efsi has a limited impact. not only that, many projects have high impact emissions. there is a lot of intervention for fossil fuels like oil and gas and very little is done for renewables and to support self-generation of energy. in the meantime, high-risk financial instruments are multiplying for an efsi that is a wink to banks and financial intermediaries, but which risks being a time bomb for real economies. that is why we voted against.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate all in this room and all around the walls on international family day. i am a father of three children and grandfather of three grandchildren. i am a medical doctor; i have spent a lot of time doing my job, and know all about the complexity. of course we must all agree about all human rights, about family lives, about children’s lives; of course we must seek balance and how to move forward with progress, and of course our common goals remain to improve the life chances of every family and every european union citizen. this is why we put forward ambitious proposals such as the european pillar of social rights and the work-life balance package. this can address issues with work and life at home and what you mentioned about private and other things. this is an agenda which needs to fully engage all stakeholders, in particular member states. of course, it must be in line with the subsidiarity principle, because we have no chance to intervene in the member states’ area of responsibility: absolutely, it is crystal clear. we must also look at the situation of proportionality. we are ready to play our part, but the centre of gravity of social policies such as family—oriented policies is – and will remain – with national, and especially local, authorities, because they are very close to families. the primary responsibility for making social rights a reality lies with national governments, national parliaments and social partners, and we will continue in this way of cooperation and support and see how we can move forward.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we are discussing online platforms, i was expecting to discuss this with another commissioner, but thank you for coming. i would also like to set the tone so that it touches on health and also family, which is very important to all of us. for example, we could have been the parents of an italian girl from naples, tiziana, who killed herself a year ago because videos of her sexualizing ended up on the internet, on facebook, because of a revenge of her ex-boyfriend and went viral. the girl was not allowed to leave her house, she was persecuted, harassed, and gang raped, until she hanged herself. for many months, videos of the dead girl continued to circulate on facebook, in a macabre rise in audience, until a ruling by an italian court blocked them. but facebook's lawyers in ireland, who are looking after facebook's interests in italy to avoid paying taxes in italy, have obtained that the company does not suffer any sanctions and have appealed to european regulations. i don't know if this seems fair to you, but it doesn't seem fair to me. we have an e-commerce directive that excludes online platforms from editorial responsibility. the directive is 17 years old, when e-commerce did not exist, platforms were new and were really a mere vehicle for sharing content and information, and technologies did not allow for ex ante control of the content put on the net. the world has changed today, as you all know. e-commerce is the largest growing business on the planet, platforms are global players, economic giants that devour entire sectors of production, concentrate vast amounts of resources and power, threaten media pluralism. but fortunately, advances in science today allow us, with increasingly sophisticated algorithms, to control the content of the web in a very short time. despite this, facebook and google, which are able to destroy a person's reputation in an hour or influence the outcome of an election campaign by hosting fake news campaigns, continue to be less responsible than a small local broadcaster, a small provincial newspaper, which for a cause may risk closure. but the most serious feature concerns us as parents, because the weakest element in this unfair and sick market is only minors, children, who are exposed to a bombardment of deceptive advertising through deceptive product placement advertising, are exposed to a bombardment of bad habits, such as junk food, and of course are victims of other worrying phenomena expanding on the internet such as hate speech or child pornography. instead of rhetoric about family, let's try to protect our children from these risks. does the commission not think that this unfair market should finally be regulated with fair and modern criteria, which protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable, especially children, by starting as soon as possible the revision of the e-commerce directive, as many european countries are beginning to ask, starting with italy?
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i must confess that it is very difficult to tackle such complex issues in one minute. i know both the case of tiziana cantone - i come from the same region - and the case of the blue whale, which a colleague mentioned earlier. but in this case, we're talking about crimes, and i'm not going to disagree. the e-commerce directive does not say that platforms are not responsible. if we want to say that article 14 (3) is not working, i agree, and if we are prepared to reopen the directive to find a more stringent way of protecting european citizens, i am perfectly in agreement. but on the other hand, these are crimes and we also have to think about freedom of expression. are we really convinced that the simplest solution is to give private individuals the power that belongs to the judiciary? these private individuals are often large companies, are often or almost always non-european, and have a monopoly status. and so i wonder where the line begins and where the line ends with freedom of expression. another topic is advertising. i believe that the last form of protection for children is really guaranteed by the abolition of advertising to which they are entitled. clear and precise rules on commercial communications should instead be contained in an ad hoc legislative act covering advertising in all media. finally, we are investing in civic education and digital education for european citizens.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 15 june 2017.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin this part-session of parliament's work with a thought full of emotion and gratitude for simone veil, a great figure of our time who has marked the history of europe and who has made a fundamental contribution to the development of our parliament. simone veil belongs to this generation of great minds, including helmut kohl, who left us a few days ago. the first president of this parliament elected by direct universal suffrage, simone veil, accompanied the young parliament in its first steps, steered it in the right direction and laid the foundations for its future development. it has always wanted a political parliament. in her first speech as president, she said: 'the voice of our assembly, with its strong legitimacy, will carry through all the community institutions, and especially at the highest level of political decision-making. other we owe a great debt to this great woman, whose memory will be honoured tomorrow in this very house. i ask you to join me in a moment of silence in his memory.
i also wish to inform you that tomorrow at 12 noon a tribute to simone veil will be held in this chamber. voting will then begin after the memorial service. i also inform you that the members who will be attending the funeral, which will take place on wednesday at 10.30 a.m. in paris, will be excused for their absence from the chamber.
i remind you that there will be an official celebration in this chamber tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have only a few minutes to tell this house, which has often shown solidarity and attention to the difficulties that some member states are experiencing on the subject of immigration, what the situation is that we are experiencing. last week, 12 000 people arrived in italy in two days. in the days that followed, in one day, 5,000 more people. this is the arrival rhythm. now, we have chosen the path of reception, but we are at a point of great difficulty. we therefore call on all our colleagues, on their countries and their governments and on the council to make europe's voice heard in terms of solidarity and unity for a country like mine which continues on the path of solidarity, of welcoming, of saving human lives, but which is in a situation of great discomfort and difficulty. i think that this is a voice, like that of greece, which cannot be ignored in a parliament like this one, which really represents the will of the peoples in the name of that solidarity which makes us europeans. we talked about simon veil, about those values, about that project. this is one of the situations where that project is put to the test: will it stand or be crushed?
the house will have the opportunity to discuss this during the speech to present the programme of the estonian presidency. i have already spoken to prime minister ratas, who has assured me that the question of immigration is a european question, as this parliament has always stressed.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 29 june 2017. because president juncker, president tusk and i will be attending the funeral of simone veil in paris on wednesday morning and therefore will not be able to be present in the chamber for the debate on the conclusions of the european council, i would like to put to the house, after consulting the political groups, the following proposals for amendments to the final draft agenda. i propose that we have a point on 'homage to simone veil' on tuesday before the vote. on wednesday the first item on the agenda should be amended as follows: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. are there any objections? the agenda is thus altered. monday: i also received the following requests. the europe of nations and freedom group has asked that statements by the council and the commission on 'frontex: alarming migration crisis off the mediterranean coast of spain' be added as the first item on the agenda.
mr hazekamp, would you agree to split your proposal, that is to say to have a vote on the debate first and then a vote on the resolution? or do you want to keep your proposal intact by rejecting mr rübig's request?
so you are against mr. rübig's proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after two difficult years, moldova is in the process of regaining its political and economic stability. as of 2014, a major banking scandal and a substantial contraction in agricultural production have brought the country into economic recession. in november last year the international monetary fund approved a three-year extended credit facility agreement for $179 million for moldova, with a satisfactory implementation budget. the european union must resume its macrofinancial assistance programme to moldova, but the country's reliability conditions must also be carefully checked. assistance must be conditional on the implementation of an ambitious programme of economic and structural reforms: i am thinking in particular of strengthening governance in the financial sector, the fight against corruption and money laundering and efforts to increase the independence of the judiciary, without forgetting the strategic importance of improving the energy sector, in particular by ensuring the independence of the national regulatory authority.
we are waiting for the end of the round of political groups to be able to accept the blue-card questions, and then we will of course be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, allow me to begin by thanking mrs mizzi for producing a report which, today, brings to our attention a report which clearly demonstrates the importance of standardisation for the proper functioning of the single market, for the protection of both consumers and businesses. the many differences between national rules systems now constitute an obstacle to the free movement of goods and to healthy competition, creating significant administrative burdens and limiting the freedom of choice of consumers. i believe that the european union must therefore invest more in the process of regulatory harmonization, which must also be developed with the support of all the parties concerned. and first of all, i believe that a common european strategy must be able to withstand the pressure of small and mediumsized enterprises, which will be the main beneficiaries of new european rules. one of the main challenges to be overcome is that of the digitisation of our society. the development of common standards in the field of new information technologies will undoubtedly strengthen the competitiveness, interoperability, security and sustainability of our digital infrastructures: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. finally, i am convinced that greater consistency will also strengthen the european union's negotiating position in international trade agreements and enable europe to play a leading role in promoting its standards in the world.
mr president, i want to commend this report and congratulate mrs mizzi on her report. i'm ready to support her. i consider, like most of my predecessors, the issue of standardisation in europe to be very important. in my view, this is not another unnecessary administrative burden, because, as one of my colleagues has pointed out, these standards are voluntary and are necessary for the creation of the single market. i would like to call on the commissioner to be as ambitious as possible in this matter, so that we can really succeed in strengthening the adoption of technical standards for individual products and thus create a single market. i do not think that these standards are unnecessary administrative burdens, but rather that they are something that will gradually complete the single market and allow the free movement of goods and their actual possibility of sale in any part of the european union. i also very much appreciate that this report is about the digital market. i consider it extremely important in the age of digitalisation to strengthen the interoperability of individual digital assets. what is not entirely resolved in the report is the question of the body to adopt these standards, whether to maintain the current structure of bodies adopting these standards or whether to envisage a new european standardisation centre as envisaged by the european commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of new technologies and the progressive integration of digital solutions into industrial production worldwide, as well as the rapidly changing international environment, regulatory instruments are changing rapidly and new impetus is needed to meet the needs of industry, consumers, workers, environmental organisations and other stakeholders. in the plan presented by the commission, the joint standardisation initiative must be accompanied by economic and social impact studies. i believe that the process of standardization must go beyond the individual economic aspects. a holistic approach is needed, in which the objectives of smes, consumers and citizens - especially those relating to economic, social, health and environmental issues - are fully integrated. it is therefore essential that the whole commission package aims at creating a single, coherent european standardisation system, which adapts to a constantly changing environment and offers benefits first and foremost to consumers and businesses.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the increase in hiv, tuberculosis and hcv epidemics in europe, by françoise grossetête, claudiu ciprian tănăsescu, urszula krupa, frédérique ries, kateřina konečná, martin häusling, piernicola pedicini and mireille d'ornano, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000045/2017 - b8-0321/2017).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this resolution calling for an integrated plan to combat aids, tuberculosis and viral hepatitis c effectively, because in 2015 some 30 000 new hiv infections were diagnosed, because the number of cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis on our continent is increasing alarmingly, and because there are between 130 and 150 million people worldwide infected with the hepatitis c virus. we believe that to fight these battles at national level alone is to fail to understand the real reasons why these diseases are generated and to fail to understand that to limit their spread significantly requires cooperation between all states at global level. we can limit aids, we can contain tuberculosis, and we can even eradicate hepatitis c, but to achieve these results we also need to radically change the relationship between institutions and pharmaceutical companies. we need transparency and reality, madam president and commissioner, we need to be represented by people who represent the interests of the people. we also want to know why, instead of investing in a preventive pharmacological strategy which could have been adopted by developing a vaccine for hepatitis c, it was decided instead to go down the road of a treatment which is expensive and inaccessible to most citizens, simply because it is more profitable for the pharmaceutical companies. commissioner, you are a doctor, and i am sure you will agree with me that these decisions based solely on the logic of profit and the skin of the sick, unfortunately, literally suck. so i think the commission should be able to change things and if it does not, it becomes responsible and co-responsible for these decisions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one in seven people living with hiv do not know they are hiv positive, and the estimated time between infection and diagnosis is on average four years, which increases the risk of transmission of the virus by almost four times. in 2015, around 30 000 new hiv infections were diagnosed in the 31 eu/eea countries, with no clear sign of a global decline. besides aids, tuberculosis and viral hepatitis are also widespread, progress more rapidly and cause a high mortality rate. a comprehensive eu strategic framework for hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis b and c in particular, taking into account the specific challenges faced by member states and neighbouring countries with higher hiv and tuberculosis incidence rates, should be provided. multi-sectoral cooperation is therefore needed to ensure the necessary resources to strengthen prevention and care activities for vulnerable communities and individuals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must start with a fact: the "use and throw" model of production is no longer sustainable. it's no longer ethically sustainable, because of the enormous waste of raw materials. it's no longer economically sustainable, because the materials we use are neither infinite nor biodegradable. and it's not sustainable for citizens, who are tired of buying things that don't last. we want to create an economic model where goods last and can be repaired. we are calling for sanctions against those who resort to planned obsolescence, that is, those manufacturers who design goods to be short-lived. we call for the use of construction techniques and materials that make repairs easier and cheaper. a citizen must be able to replace the damaged part of a mobile phone or a household appliance at reasonable cost, without having to throw away the mobile phone or the household appliance. we call on the european commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to put an end to the throwaway culture.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission would like to thank the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for this report on a longer lifetime for products and related benefits for consumers and companies. in particular, i would like thank the rapporteur, mr durand, for his hard work on this report. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their valuable input. i will first speak about the importance of promoting a longer product lifetime. i fully share your views about the importance of longer-lasting products if it affects all of us as european citizens. i am sure that many of us have experienced frustration when domestic appliances have broken down and the price of repair costs as much as – or more than – buying a new product. also, when it equipment and software updates are no longer compatible, we can waste a lot of time sorting out these issues. however, we all need to recognise that our products are becoming increasingly sophisticated and more reliant on it, as well as more efficient. there are trade-offs to be made in keeping a product for 20 years versus having the latest version in terms of costs, energy and material resources. but consumers should have the choice and the possibility to keep a product longer. in addition, value chains in many product markets include both big and small players whose interests may not always necessarily be aligned. therefore, we need to find a balanced approach in our policies and revelatory interventions. regarding eco—design and energy labelling actions, in november 2016 the commission adopted an eco—design working plan for the years 2016—2019, setting out its working priorities and its eco—design and energy labelling framework. the working plan has a stronger focus on supporting circular economy objectives. the commission has committed to explore the possibility of establishing more product—specific and horizontal requirements in areas such as durability, reparability, upgradeability, information and ease of re—use and recycling. the implementation of the working plan is currently under way. regarding european standardisation action, a massive horizontal european standards effort has been mounted since december 2015 by a joint technical committee. this work looks at reparability, upgradeability and durability and is supported by ngos, member states and industry. we expect this work to bear fruit by 2019. these standards can then be used for individual product—related legislation and standards. regarding the role of member states, your report acknowledges that member states could also play a role in promoting repairs, for example by putting lower vat on longer-lasting goods and tax rebates on repair costs. some member states – for example, sweden – are already doing this. we will examine with interest the progress of such schemes. in conclusion, we welcome mr durand’s report. we are already acting on some of its suggestions and will reflect in further detail regarding others. we need to work on this together to make changes that make sense for our lifestyles, for businesses and for the planet. so i welcome your support from all relevant committees.
in writing. the realisation of a circular economy model requires the involvement of policy-makers, citizens and businesses, and implies changes not only in the design and sale of products and services, but also in consumer mindsets and entrepreneurial activity. a balance must be struck between extending the useful life of products and converting waste into resources, between innovation and consumer demand. issues such as product durability, commercial warranty extension, availability of spare parts, ease of repair and interchangeability of components must be part of the manufacturer's commercial offer. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the elderly, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat the problem of the elderly. i am in favour of the definition of minimum durability criteria, which include, inter alia, robustness, repairability and ability to evolve, for the different product categories, from design, to the establishment of an independent system, capable of testing and detecting the obsolescence embedded in products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, the private security sector has indeed experienced a strong expansion in recent years, helped by budget cuts in military spending, which have led many european states to outsource security activities to private companies. while the need for cost containment is understood, it cannot be accepted that the choice of entrusting defence services to private companies is determined solely by economic needs. decisions on defence and security, which are sensitive and complex areas of responsibility for public authorities, cannot be based solely on cost-containment considerations, since, as we know, security issues involve intelligence, investigation and strategic planning and are not limited to purely operational tasks. it is therefore necessary to define a uniform legislative framework at european level, regulating the activity of private security companies with binding regulatory and monitoring mechanisms to regulate their use also in third countries and with appropriate procedures for reporting any irregularities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of the long-term prospects for economic growth in the european union and in third countries is also guaranteed by financial instruments, and in particular by the transparency of their use. i have spoken on this subject on several occasions, including in relation to the capital markets union, which is based on the transparency of both stock exchange and savings activities. the success of covered bonds can be attributed to two factors: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. today, as covered bonds are becoming common in many countries outside the european union, any legislative initiative must be carefully considered, without major changes to the rules, which would create uncertainty on the markets. european legislation must not cause disruption to national legislation. i agree with the report that it is proposed to continue to set minimum loan-to-value ratios through european legislation, leaving technical standards to be freely decided by the member states.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, small-scale fishermen, particularly those in the mediterranean area, are facing increasing pressures from a number of factors, including the decline in employment and the decline in the attractiveness of the profession, but also climate change and pollution, which have led to a gradual depletion of fish stocks. in europe, new solutions are being sought and tested, aimed at diversifying fishing activities and developing sectors such as those linked to tourism, which in some countries are called fish tourism and highturism. the common fisheries policy already provides for this, but the report is designed to give a new impetus to this type of activity. the aim is to create new jobs, promote social inclusion and revitalise communities that depend on fishing. europe's coastal areas attract millions of visitors every year and there has been a recent upsurge in interest in sustainable tourism. diversification of activities will therefore not only help a sector in crisis to recover, but also help fishermen and tourists to meet and get to know each other through an ancient, difficult and complex craft. not only that: the meeting will help to raise awareness of responsible consumption, starting with the knowledge of the different fish species, including those that are less well known, which are often cheaper but not necessarily less good. to make the most of the economic and social potential of this sector, action is needed on several fronts: the commission has also proposed that the member states should harmonise the definition and legal basis of fishing tourism, which varies considerably from one member state to another. for example, in italy it is considered a professional activity, while in france it is considered a casual activity. it is also necessary to harmonize european safety standards so that small-scale fishing vessels can be used for tourist trips or for direct fishing experiences, while ensuring the safety of those on board. finally, investment at national, regional and local level should be encouraged to improve services, from better internet connections to the renovation of facilities and the promotion of local cultures and traditions. the resources made available by the emff should be better used, while at the same time the collaboration between public administrations, flags (i.e. local action groups), tourism experts and stakeholders should be strengthened in order to promote sustainable growth and to develop innovative products that meet the expectations of visitors. the issue of seasonality could be addressed through information and promotion campaigns that offer visitors different activities throughout the year, for example through the organisation of events. tourism linked to fishing, in particular fisheries tourism and hunting tourism, is thus a real form of integration and diversification of primary activity in many european regions, and is economically beneficial for fishermen and environmentally sustainable. unfortunately, however, they are still too little known to the general public and too little valued by the institutions. this requires a joint and shared effort involving all stakeholders and enabling coastal communities, fishermen and tourists to benefit fully from the great opportunities this sector has to offer. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, for their help and their interest in the work we have done together.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to one point which relates to the current policy of the european commission. as we all know, the european commission has opened proceedings against three countries, the czech republic, poland and hungary, on the grounds that these countries refuse to implement mandatory quotas and accept refugees. i would very much like the european commission, when it chooses such a hard line, to also be aware of the impact that this decision of the commission has on the people of central europe. what are the implications, how does it reinforce anti-european sentiment and anti-european thinking? in the czech republic, parliamentary elections will take place in the autumn of this year, and i am convinced that this radical approach by the european commission will lead to the strengthening of populist and anti-european forces in czech politics and in the czech parliament. and that's the thing i'm not happy about and i don't want. so perhaps the commission should be more political and consider whether the solutions chosen will really achieve the desired goal of strengthening the european union. we're only strengthening russia and europe's enemies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy thousands of people will be gathering in the coming hours in front of the italian parliament to protest against the ratification of ceta, which was approved by this house in february by 408 votes in favour, 33 abstentions and 250 votes against, including mine. first of all, it concerns farmers, who are concerned that this agreement represents the first passport for imitations of the best-known and least protected italian food products. they are consumers and environmentalists, alarmed by the lowering of food safety standards and the spread of gmo production. it is workers and small businesses, afraid of further downward competition, who are paying the price in terms of further social dumping. but the protests are not only italian: in many member states, such events occur. the commission's commitment to follow developments very closely and to block any attempts to break the rules which may contribute to damaging our products, jobs, the environment and health is of central importance.
the agenda includes the debate on the council and commission statements on the budget of the maltese presidency (2017/2658 ((rsp)). before i give the floor to mr muscat, i would like to thank this presidency for the work it has done at a particularly difficult time, when the immigration emergency is becoming more worrying every day, when thousands and thousands of people are moving from libya to europe and it is not easy for our continent to deal with this problem. i would also like to thank the european commission, which is working hard, as is parliament, to find solutions. i hope that the member states will do the same. thank you again for this hard work.
mr prime minister, your concerns about solidarity are our concerns. the european parliament has made its voice heard by calling on all member states to take responsibility for the resettlement of refugees in the name of solidarity. i also thank the european commission for listening to parliament's voice and for taking action in a timely manner on the issue of the relocation of refugees.
i ask you, mr president, to show more respect for this parliament.
mr president, you may criticize parliament, but the commission should not be controlling parliament. it is parliament which must control the commission.
mr president, please use a different language. we are not ridiculous. please, please, please!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i too appreciated your very sincere and, i would say, clear words when you said: we must give substance to the principles of the union, give concrete answers. i will give two examples. the roaming, repeatedly called, but also first. i think this was a great success because of the determination with which you pursued it. few people here have perhaps realised what it means to create a platform for cooperation between european countries and african countries on the mediterranean coast for the management of a resource such as water, with all the implications for energy, food and so on. it is therefore a good success, and i feel part of it as a member of the itre committee. but there is one point, however, which is not attributable to your presidency, but which is handed over from presidency to presidency within the council in an endless and unresolved chain, and that is the issue of migration flows. i repeat what i said yesterday in this house: my country has taken on a european theme, and today it simply cannot do it any more. the other aulic words have run out. that's the fact. president juncker knows this well, he is a great ally, he is trying to do his best, but the council must find concrete and precise solutions. we have chosen, like italy, to save, to welcome. we want to save the flag of european civilization, but we can no longer do it alone. there is a problem of credibility in europe, which is at stake, i believe, its very essence, its future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr muscat, there is no question of the political will which you have tried to put into action during your presidency. however, i must say that your speech, which describes reality as it is, may protect us from the point of view of intellectual honesty, but it does not solve the problems. and i must say that the question of migration, which is the political and social thermometer in europe, is unfortunately a sign of the impotence, the incapacity and the cowardice with which many european countries are tackling this issue, or rather, are not tackling it. so what italy is facing is a legitimate issue, which is not just a national issue. i think he's tired of the pat on the back and the word solidarity. we must get down to business. i believe and hope that in your conclusions you will also say something more about this, about the difficulties that exist and the responsibilities that must be emphasized.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been asked about european immigration policy. on that point, i would like to say how grateful we are to the maltese presidency for having moved things, and for having moved them in the right direction. under the maltese presidency, we have on several occasions been able to take decisions on migration policy which are a credit to the presidency and which reflect the will - and i hope the strong will - of the european union as a whole to make progress in this area. the commission will be debating migration policy today in this city, and we will show by the facts we are about to announce that we want to remain in solidarity with italy, which is showing a truly heroic attitude in the matter of migration policy. as the maltese prime minister and i have said since the beginning of the crisis, solidarity is needed, solidarity is a two-way street. we have no right to lose ourselves in national egoism and we will demonstrate this today. the commission has done a lot, but it has not been able to do all that it should have done, because our technical and financial resources are very limited. but we will continue the solidarity action with italy. long live the italians!
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank members of this house for the very constructive debate we have had today. i would love to take the blame for the migration problem, because that would be simple and would mean that whoever comes next would be able to solve the problem. unfortunately, we all know that is not the case. i must also shoulder the blame, as representative of the council, for this fiasco for the simple reason that it is not the fault of the commission. the commission’s ideas are very clear and, as a member state, we totally agree with those ideas. we cannot blame parliament. your position as parliament has been more or less the same since the first time i was here 12 years ago and, really and truly, there is nothing more to say about these two institutions. the problem is within the council, and it boils down to values once again. i am afraid that it has nothing to do with politics because, if it had to do with politics, for every political problem there is a political solution. now we have to be very honest: it boils down to what we believe in. and that is why i urge my colleagues in the council to have an honest debate, without making excuses about why we should do something or why we should not do something, but about what kind of europe we believe. and, rather than just europe, what values we believe in. this is a council problem and we have to come up with a solution. i must say that, as a presidency, we have inched forward and made some progress. what we saw in our strategy was a constant search for what could unite us. when it comes to migration, what really unites us in the council is the external dimension of the phenomenon. i think we have achieved a great deal in saying that we need to address this issue from both a humanitarian and a security perspective. it is not just a humanitarian problem, but it is not just a security problem either. for some this was something that couldn’t be said, but i think we managed to put forward a sensible approach when it comes to the external dimension, and we have achieved progress. i will give you a couple of examples where sterling work is being done by the commission – things that are not said and that maybe some of you will not agree with, because they are philosophically opposed to the perspective of some – but these are things that are being done. with our missions in libya this year we, as the european union, have so far managed to convince about 5 000 people –double the number from last year – to go back voluntarily to their countries of origin and not to engage in crossing the sea. what is 5 000 when compared to the numbers arriving on our shores daily? it is nothing. but i must stress that, for every person who is convinced, a huge input and a huge effort is being made by all of us as the european union, and we aim to get that number up to 10 000 by the end of the year. will that make a difference? it is a drop in the ocean, but at least it is a drop because, until now, nothing significant was being done. i must also commend the huge efforts that are being made in mali and at the southern libyan border. for the first time, we are seeing the european union engage with tribal communities at the southern border; tribal communities that earn a living from smuggling people. and, when we engage with them, they tell us quite clearly, in a very realpolitik fashion, that they are not doing the right thing in collaborating with criminals and ask us to give them an alternative. they ask how they will pay for their tribe to get food and shelter. for the first time, money from the european union is going directly to those communities at the border to show them that there is an alternative way in which they can finance their own activities. this is only a start, but it is an important start. i must also say that we have managed, through the good offices of a number of member states, notably italy and the netherlands, to train the first batch of libyan coast guard members. most importantly, once they had been trained, they went back to their country and did not escape because there were previous cases of training programmes where we, as europe, trained people who ended up with militias, fighting against what we trained them to do. so this is a significant step forward, which cannot just be brushed aside as insignificant. may i just touch on the issue of smallness or greatness? when we say that we are a small country, we are just saying things as they are. we have limited resources, and i am very proud of what we have managed to achieve: a five—minute meeting on brexit where we put forward a united european position in what many thought would have been a protracted discussion for hours on end with divisions. no; it was a five-minute meeting that ended in unity concerning the istanbul convention. this was a great achievement, which i think is an achievement by the whole european union. to my colleague from greece, i apologise for not mentioning greece. i will say that greece is always on our mind. after germany, we are the country which contributes the highest percentage towards the greek bail-out, so greece is definitely on our mind. we did this without blinking an eye because we believe in solidarity. for us solidarity is not something that we advocate when migrants are coming to us and we want others to help us, but solidarity is something we practise when another member state needs our help. that is part of the way we think. on the issue raised by mr giegold – whom i thank for his very proactive approach today – i know that there are many misgivings about the issue of fiscal policy within this institution. this is something that we need to engage with even more, not just as a member states, but in a number of member states where we need to understand each other better. we have to draw very clear lines on what we disagree about. fiscal policy stands fairly and squarely within the remit of member states to decide, but there need to be clear rules. i agree with that, and i must stress that, in the case of malta, our tax system is oecd-compliant. it is the same tax system which the commission approved before our membership of the european union and it has not changed since then. so my point is that, if it was not a problem 13 years ago, why is it a problem now? let’s discuss that. once again i want to stress that this is an issue that lies fairly and squarely within the remit of member states. on the issue, mentioned by mr giegold, of investigations: investigations are ongoing. they are independent and something which we will always respect. there is rule of law in our country, and i look forward to further debate on this issue, which i am sure we will have in the coming months. finally, i was amused by mr lamberts’ speech, a green politician defining socialism to me. i loved it. i will not engage in definitions, but will just tell you what i stand for and what my government stands for. we stand for free healthcare, we stand for free university education, we stand for free childcare, we stand for increasing the minimum wage, we stand for increasing pensions, we stand for full employment, and we stand for equal marriage, on which we will be voting in our parliament tomorrow. so i will leave it up to you to define whether that is socialism or not.
mr president, i thank you for your replies and for the work you have done during this presidency of our union. the debate is closed.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the commission has made fair taxation one of its priorities. and, naturally, since recent disclosures have once again underlined the magnitude of the problem, calls for action have gained force. we have put forward a raft of measures to tackle tax abuse and to make sure that companies pay their fair share of taxes in the countries where their actual economic activity is taking place. in addition to measures addressing directly companies’ tax affairs and the work of tax authorities we are convinced that corporate transparency is part of the equation. parliament has been vocal and pivotal in calling for a valid answer to the widespread public discontent. the commission responded timely in a constructive way. the public country-by-country reporting, which we are examining today mainly aims to address two issues. first, a growing public distrust in the fairness of the tax system, and second, the accountability of multinational companies towards our citizens. the proposed corporate transparency measure is an ambitious and unprecedented move, a move that requires striking a delicate balance between, on the one hand, the public’s legitimate demands for information, and, on the other, legitimate calls for our businesses not to weaken their world-wide competitiveness. the commission also paid attention to complement, but not undermine, the existing system of exchange of a country-by-country reporting by tax authorities. this system is gaining remarkable traction globally under the aegis of the oecd and g20 and with the full support the european union. it is easy to see the importance of the issue. due to corporate tax avoidance, our governments miss out an estimated eur 50 to 70 billion a year. in view of the fiscal efforts they are making and the investment demanded by the economies, these amounts are unacceptably high. so, honourable members, we trust in your support to get this proposal agreed as quickly as possible.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my fellow rapporteurs for their excellent and valuable work on this important dossier. state-by-state reporting is a key measure for transparency and against tax evasion and avoidance at global and european level. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european union's internal market, and to extend it to the european union's external borders. this will also enable developing countries to obtain valuable information on multinational companies operating within their borders. the poorest countries, in fact, are the ones paying the highest price for these practices, losing hundreds of billions of dollars every year, a vital resource for development. the fight against poverty and inequality also passes through here. unfortunately, there are some people in this house who preach well and preach badly, and they want a safeguard clause which would allow multinational companies to avoid publishing information which they consider sensitive. without at least the retroactive publication of this information, this becomes a very dangerous loophole to continue hiding profits. i therefore appeal to my liberal and popular colleagues to remember that partial solutions are not enough in the face of a global phenomenon. we can pass a historic measure, and when history passes, it's good not to be found elsewhere.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally discussing this important proposal on country-by-country reporting, which is also a very important topic for us in the five star movement, which considers transparency to be a fundamental value for the health of companies and institutions. as we know, this proposal came after the luxleaks and panama papers scandals, which have shown that the fight against tax evasion still has a long way to go. the european union cannot waste any more time, it must respond immediately, or else lose its credibility, which is already rather shaky. these scandals have also made it clear that this phenomenon must be combated by adopting rules that also apply on a global scale, even outside the european union. we are therefore very disappointed that the text proposed in the legal affairs committee, which was initially very good and ambitious, especially as regards reporting obligations outside the european union, has been severely weakened by the introduction of the safeguard clause, so that serious doubts have arisen as to the real effectiveness of the proposed rules. i therefore sincerely hope that these errors can be corrected by the amendments to the final text proposed by our group, which concern in particular the lowering of the reporting threshold for large companies (thus going from 750 million to 40 million in annual turnover), the obligation to report on funds received from the state and on financing made to political bodies or persons, the fundamental obligation for multinational companies to make public, in an unbundled manner and without exception, information on taxes paid in all countries of the world, including tax havens. without these fundamental adjustments it will be very difficult for our group to support this proposal and to support a position of parliament which could potentially be even worse than the one presented by the commission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, multinationals have to pay their taxes. i challenge anyone in this house to go into a public debate and argue the opposite. but, unfortunately, what happened? what happened is that in a fairly simple discussion like this, where we ask for publication and reporting, and therefore transparency, from multinationals about profits, about taxes paid, about information that is mandatory to make public, especially when you are a multinational reality that therefore moves very strong interests... the point to be made is that in the relevant committees, that is to say the legal affairs and economic affairs committees, an amendment was passed in the vote on transparency of this information, proposed by the liberals - then alde, the epp, with the votes also of the ecr - which led to the proposal being depleted and to ensuring that a multinational company with a headquarters outside the european union is not obliged to make information transparent. this is a disgrace. we hope that the vote will be reversed, but in any case we must denounce those people who are in conflict of interest at the moment when they are taking the wrong positions.
we are about to begin the ceremony of the european parliament's solemn tribute to simone veil. mr president of the european commission, thank you for being here. ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the european parliament and the peoples of europe represented here, i pay tribute today to simone veil, the first directly elected president of this parliament, a frenchwoman, a european, a minister of state, an academic, a deported person from auschwitz, a great figure of our time, a politician, a woman. in her extraordinary life, she was all of that and more. the story of his life is the story of our continent, a continent torn apart, lost, which has known the worst atrocities of which humanity is capable, but which has managed, as it did, to find the strength to climb the slope, to rebuild itself and to be reborn. seventy years ago, everything was lost, for simone veil and for europe. 78651, that's the number that the infamy of man imprinted on her skin when she was only 16 years old. this number, which she wanted to engrave on her sword of the académie française as a warning for future generations, marked much more than her arm. it must remain forever imprinted in our collective consciousness and constantly remind us of the ultimate reasons why we decided one day, on the ashes of war, to share our destiny. let us never forget this and repeat it again and again to the younger generations, for whom the collective memory of this catastrophe is in danger of fading, to the point that peace is now considered a trivial and commonplace thing. simone veil has always been aware of the fragility of peace in europe since 1945. to him, that peace is a precious possession. it is with the energy of a survivor who knows the price of peace that she has fought in countless battles in france and in the european parliament, battles that have advanced the rights of all citizens. simone veil belongs to that generation of great minds, including helmut kohl, who succeeded the founding fathers of europe. they took over the task of building europe in a very difficult period and continued what their predecessors had started. the contribution of simone veil was fundamental. her commitment to europe was exemplary and led her to become the first president of the european parliament elected by universal suffrage. i would like to express our admiration and deepest gratitude for the essential role she has played as president of this house. in her inaugural speech on 17 july 1979 she was fully aware of the weight of the responsibility she had to bear. he said: 'for the first time in history, in a history which has seen them so often divided, opposed and bent on destroying each other, the europeans have elected their delegates to a common assembly together. these elections are undoubtedly a key event in the construction of europe since the signing of the treaties. other it was a speech of 23 minutes in which she clearly outlined, with unusual lucidity and vision, the lines of the evolution of the parliament for the next 40 years. i invite you to read this speech again, which seems to me to be surprisingly topical. you find the enthusiasm, the hopes, the expectations, the intentions of a whole generation of men and women who sat on these benches long before us. it inspires and compels us. in the aftermath of the first european elections, no one knew what the newly elected assembly would become. no one but simone veil! today, no one knows what this parliament would have become without her. if we are what we are, if this parliament has been able to expand its powers, to become what it is today, it is mainly thanks to her. conscious of the historic task it had to undertake, it accompanied the young parliament in its first steps, steered it in the right direction and laid the foundations for its future development. so our debt to this great woman remains immense. in his view, parliament, with its elected legitimacy, should now play its full role of democratic control, which, as he put it, is the primary function of any elected assembly. it also had to exercise, with wisdom and conscience, its new budgetary power, which it considered to be fundamental among the powers of a parliament. simone veil was also convinced that the new parliament's duty was to give a constant impetus to the construction of europe. it strongly believed that the limited powers of parliament had to be used to the full. she also felt that this was not enough and that more had to be done. 'the parliament,' she said in her speech, 'must also be a body for the control of general policy within the community. we do not believe that the strictly institutional limitations of its powers can prevent a parliament such as ours from making its elected political authority heard at any time and in any area of community action. other in other words, simone veil wanted a political parliament. a fate greater than that of simone veil. condemned to death at the age of 16, she has now entered the immortality of history after a long and intense life, during which she worked tirelessly to defend the ideas and values that were hers, and which have become ours. the rocket of his sword of academician is formed by two hands that hold each other, symbolizing the reconciliation between peoples. his exemplary life was a picture of this reconciliation, which required extraordinary courage and the greatest love. his life was proof that it is possible to resist the temptation of hatred. her life was and will remain a wonderful testimony to us all and to future generations, because simone veil had the courage to continue to believe in the goodness of man. on behalf of all of us, i pay tribute today to this great lady. i express my deepest admiration for his courage, his intelligence and his deep humanity. i would like to express our gratitude for the love and passion she has shown in all she has done. i would like to say very loudly how proud we are to have had her as the first president of this house. when she was sworn in as president in 1979, she said: 'our parliament will have fully fulfilled the hopes it has raised if, far from being the echo chamber of europe's internal divisions, it manages to express and make the community feel the spirit of solidarity so necessary today'. thank you, madam president, thank you, simone, for these timely words, and thank you for all you have done for us and for those who will come after us. * *(video of the life of simone veil broadcast in the hemicycle) * *(the house, standing up, applauds)
all the political groups yesterday mentioned simone veil, who was also chairman of the liberal group. that is why i asked guy verhofstadt, president of the liberal group, to recall the work done by simone veil in this parliament.
this concludes the ceremony to pay tribute to simone veil, the first woman president of the european parliament elected directly by the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is a country which, because of its tourist vocation and its almost 7 500 kilometres of coastline, is more than any other able to exploit the full potential of its sea. the climate and the fact that the fishing is mainly artisanal and seasonal make our country one of the main targets of the own-initiative report voted on today. coastal regions and islands are suffering from severe economic decline due to shortages of fish resources or overly restrictive or even wrong policies. in recent years, so-called 'fish tourism' has helped to create new jobs, but it is not the solution. the report is therefore generally positive, but it does have some criticisms. we must make the best use of the funds available, all of them, not just the emff, and we must make sure that fisheries tourism and other alternatives are not the solution. these proposals must not be a means of covering up the holes created over the years by wrong and unsuitable policies for our seas, but merely represent forms of economic integration which are necessary at certain times of the year and in well-defined circumstances.
the coastal areas are suffering greatly. the increasing constraints imposed by the common fisheries policy, the scarcity of resources and competition from products coming from abroad have brought the traditional productive activity of these areas, namely fishing, to its knees. so how do we enable coastal communities to survive, to maintain their traditions, to respect their vocation and to have a decent income? coastal areas are naturally a tourist attraction. it is therefore necessary to create spaces for fishermen in the services offered to tourists. boat trips or fishing trips offered to tourists by chance and left to their own devices - and sometimes disorganized - are certainly not enough. with the right incentive policies and an organic development strategy, tourism can also become a stable source of income for fishermen. we need to invest in infrastructure, in overcoming seasonal tourism, in connections. we need a connection with the business owners, the tour operators, the caterers. it's about teamwork and politics all rolled into one.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not the rapporteur, there must have been a mistake. but i am making my statement of vote, a statement of vote strongly against, because i think that a shameful political game is being played over macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, that it is a matter of political and commercial support for the para-fascist regime of poroshenko, which continues to repress and oppress the civilian population in donbas, and does not respect the minsk agreements. it is an agreement which, in addition to supporting the para-fascist regime of poroshenko, creates measures which are harmful to our production, to european agricultural production such as honey, grapes, wheat, barley and other cereals. in short, we want to describe poroshenko as pro-european union, actually removing the far-right presences in his regime and removing what he is doing against the people of donbas. i think that, together with the damage to european farmers, is reason enough to vote against.
madam president, like my colleague the rapporteur, i was hesitant to support the report and, thanks to the oral amendment which was adopted, i did endorse it. it is important to me that private security agencies have clear rules and that they do not take over the powers of public authorities, state authorities, whether in the form of armies, that is, military units, which are subject to international military law, or other armed forces, which are regulated by state power, public law, etc. i think that it is always necessary to distinguish and clearly state where the boundary is between public authorities and private agencies which have a private law character. i do not question their importance as auxiliary organs in conflict resolution, in removing the consequences of conflicts, they certainly have their importance, and therefore i do not oppose them in any way. on the other hand, as i said, let's not forget that they are private entities, and that's important to keep emphasizing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for decades we have been immersed in a process of devaluing work in europe and the world, which is the main cause of the crisis of democratic systems. a society that does not recognize the right to decent work is a society that destroys the foundations of citizenship. we have all the tools today to reverse this march towards nothingness, starting with the achievements of technology, which are a conquest of all humanity, which are today put at the service of a few super-rich, instead of being used to free the masses of workers from the slavery of tedious, repetitive work. i would therefore like to thank the author of the report, mr sylikiotis, for his precise and courageous way of framing the terms of this real social drama and for his series of very good suggestions. but concrete action must be taken now, before it is too late.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the encouraging messages about the recovery in employment, full-time employment at union level is still below the levels of 2008. the optimism about employment rates is due, in many cases, to an increase in zero-hour contracts, but also to a range of atypical formulas that undermine workers' rights and dignity. precariousness has increased particularly in the last 10 to 15 years, especially in the building, agriculture, aviation and hotel sectors. the second is the phenomenon of the corporal, which is quite widespread in italy, but is also known in other european countries, and which is comparable to slavery. it is an illegal form of recruitment and organisation of labour, especially agricultural and construction labour, through intermediaries caporali who hire, on behalf of the employer, day labourers outside the normal channels of employment, without any respect for the contracts provided, taking a large part of their wages and often segregating them. in this respect, much remains to be done, but the measures against precarious and undeclared work envisaged in the proposal are moving in the right direction. that is why we are voting in favour.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us face it: italy today represents to all of you here the stupid state of the european union. let's not kid ourselves. it hurts to admit it, but it's true. whose fault is it, gentlemen? germany and france, who build walls and turn their backs on us in a moment of emergency? or all the past italian governments, who have bowed to compromise for crumbs of notoriety? it's a disgrace! it is a shame to discover that italy, with renzi, after the "mare nostrum" operation, signed the "triton" agreement, which you proposed as a solution to all evil: european boats in exchange for migrants. it is a shame that the italian banking system is collapsing in the name of the austerity rules that you have imposed and that the italian governments have accepted. it is a shame that the european union, which was created to create a path of solidarity between states, is now the symbol of a failed design. we, gentlemen, contrary to what is reported in the press, believe in the dream of a united and united europe, and we really do. but today it's just a dream. because you're all good at making promises. you want to regain some credibility? then hurry up! number one: we must immediately remove the noose of austerity from the necks of the weakest. number two: we must immediately tear up the dublin regulation which has turned italy into the refugee camp of europe. are you willing to do that?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am more disappointed and more angry than usual today. i'm angry with you, half of europe's good people, because after years of guilty silence you suddenly wake up and tell us that too many illegal immigrants are coming to italy. but how? i've been telling you this for at least five years, and you, all of you, have always accused me of being a racist. the truth is that i am not a racist, we are not racists, we are just realists. thousands of illegal immigrants continue to land in italy: 85 000 in the last six months, brought in by ships flying flags from halfway around the world. why all the way to italy? why do other countries close their borders and italy can't? i say to the european commission and the italian government: shame on you! today you announced a new action plan to reduce migration flows. the usual fried air. you're like the italian government: just a little chat and a badge! you're like the "renziloni" government, who threatens to close the ports but doesn't have the courage to do it. because you are all accomplices in this wild immigration. but now our patience is at an end. - what? and we of the league, together with thousands of italian citizens tired of listening to your lies, will physically close the ports and not let the illegals off those ships. zero tolerance and heavily fortified borders. we will defend ourselves against this invasion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the debate is a bit confusing, because next year will be the year of the debate and, we hope, of the achievements on the future of europe, on which you have presented many documents. we regret that we have not been able to reach a common resolution as a parliament on this package on the future of europe, but we would like to remind you that we have adopted three reports which deal with all the major issues which you have started to turn into proposals in your documents. i would remind you that these remain our pillars, but i would also remind you that we are faced with an important problem for the future, namely that in many of the matters on which you make important proposals - one for all, common defence - parliament's role is very limited in the current treaties. it is clear that there is room for action in terms of treaty amendments, but it is also clear that interinstitutional arrangements should be proposed to deal with this issue. i would also like to mention the future of monetary union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have great confidence in 2018. first of all, the social dimension of european integration cannot be reduced to free movement. serious reform must aim to improve working conditions, reduce poverty and social inequalities, accelerate the convergence of economic performance and income levels between countries and strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion. we need to be more ambitious in the environmental and health sectors, starting with endocrine disruptors and antibiotic resistance. in agriculture, a legislative framework proposal to tackle unfair trading practices in the food chain and provide support measures for farmers in cases of unfair competition can no longer be postponed. safe and legal ways of entering europe for those seeking international protection and for asylum seekers must be guaranteed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
on behalf of the enf group. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that it will be very active in the future. a few hours later , they 're all warmongers: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. well, if you look at how europe has handled the economy, the currency, the euro, then you really think he's joking. there are many questions that remain open, for example the role of the member countries in nato, the role of the national armies themselves, which will be subject to dual command. nothing is said about it clearly and they obviously want to hide the real motives, because we cannot think that there are no motives. perhaps you fear the revival of patriotism? perhaps you are afraid that individual countries will take back, or hope to take back, the levers of their sovereignty, which is so important, which is part of our tradition. being a europeanist - and i think i am a europeanist - does not mean denying, putting to the side the sense of national belonging, the pride of belonging to one's own country. of course, there is a greater european homeland, but we cannot allow our people to be mocked like this. you say that all europeans, in your polls, want this european defence. but why has no parliament asked for it? the national parliaments have never asked for anything like this, and you know that very well. it's just another scam.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, common european defence: what are you doing? if it is just to cut waste, close the technological gaps, exploit economies of scale and have a more transparent defence market, i would certainly say to the european citizens. and we would sit at the table with keen interest. but given the history, there's more than one suspect in the air. and i ask you: when the reflection paper stresses the importance of mutual assistance and solidarity, what kind of solidarity is it? the so-called champion of europe, macron, who denies access to french ports and returns migrants to ventimiglia? the one of juncker, who simply slaps my country on the shoulder and calls it heroic? or perhaps the solidarity of angela merkel's germany, which, with its fearful trade surplus, in defiance of the rules, crushes the economies of other member states, thanks to a currency, the euro, designed to suit its needs? the opportunity is ripe for berlin, and it is military, geopolitical and industrial. the instability of the border and the unpredictability of the trump-branded us are the perfect alibi to justify a massive rearmament of a country that if it really spent 2% of gdp on defense, in a few years it would become the third largest military power in the world. we ask for caution and also for clarity, because i would not like, as usual, to end up with a german europe, including in defence, instead of a european germany.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the high representative for the considerable work he has done in recent months on the common security and defence policy. since the last debate in november, much progress has been made. in less than a year, common european defence is no longer a federalist dream, but is beginning to become a reality. i will mention only two of the many actions undertaken: the commission's launch of the european defence fund, which will have research as one of its key areas, with a major impact also for the member states, and the council's agreement in june to launch an ambitious permanent structured cooperation, with concrete indications of when and how member states wishing to join it should do so. this is a historic event which will make it possible to make greater use of the provisions of the treaties which have not been used so far. parliament will be following this crucial stage with great interest, together with the national parliaments. it will have to be involved and informed, and we expect a clear commitment to that. these steps forward will enable the union to save, avoid waste and generate investment and to assume full strategic autonomy, while fully cooperating and complementing nato, in an increasingly unstable global context.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in march this year the commission published a white paper which gave a comprehensive view of the european union, a bold outlook and five different options for the future of europe. this white paper process leads to the european parliament, leads to the council, leads to our social partners, to our citizens, to the european public. in particular, in the light of some recent developments, such as the aim of our british friends to exit, but also in the light of important challenges facing our citizens, we consider the white paper process for the european union, the eu-27, to be a good deal for the next decade and beyond. in the last few weeks, we have now presented five reflection papers on this subject. the social dimension of europe, defence - mrs mogherini has just spoken about this - deepening economic and monetary union, we have been thinking about globalisation and what this means for jobs and the european single market, and now a few days ago we have the reflection paper on the finances of europe 2025, the future. this is more or less the case with the preparations for the next multiannual financial framework, which will come into force in january 2021 and which will be drawn up with you in the coming months for the next five or five plus five or seven years of the next decade. i attach great importance to our paper being an open-ended paper. we have no priorities, no preconceived ideas, no preconceived decisions, but we ask the questions that arise. we're going to show the problems we have. we are showing the opportunities that europe offers and then giving different answers without preference. the paper on the finances of the next decade is therefore an invitation, a starting point for a public debate - first of all with this house, the european parliament, but also with national parliaments, governments, the council, the committee of the regions, the european economic and social committee, our citizens. and i would ask you, as prominent figures in your country, in your regions, in your constituencies, to also take this debate forward. the first preferences and lessons learned may be discussed in president juncker's state of the union address in september. and in any case we want to put forward proposals for conclusions to parliament and the council and the european council for december or for the first quarter of next year. the commission is obliged by our legislation to present its proposal for the next financial framework before the end of the year. our preliminary work is also well advanced. but two important foundations are not in place at present and in the coming months. firstly, if we are to take the white paper process seriously and carry it out in a credible manner, we must await the detailed opinions of parliament, national parliaments, the member states, the public and the social partners, evaluate them and then weigh them. option five, that is, option three, two, one and four or a mix of several options. but this will be possible at the earliest by the end of the year, more likely in the first quarter of next year. more seriously, if the financial framework - the commission's proposal for the next mff - is to be budgetary clarity, budgetary truth, realism, then we must know what the financial implications of the withdrawal of our british friends are. we therefore assume that there will be no serious problems in implementing the current financial framework. i am grateful to the british - i will come back to that later - for accepting the midterm review. the 2018 budget is a budget that is on solid footing. from the end of march 2019: our expectation that the rights and obligations of the mff will be collected by 28 member states. 2020 the same case. let's wait and see. there are also subsequent commitments which mr barnier will discuss with mr davis in the coming months. i am sure that by the end of the year we will know much more about the payments coming in, the outstanding bills, the amounts due from the budget going into the next decade, concerning the united kingdom. that is why - i have already discussed this with your committee on budgets and with the rapporteurs, mrs thomas and mr olbrycht, and i also raised it with the group chairmen and the president a few weeks ago - we, the commission, consider it preferable that we include the white paper process and our reflection paper for the next mff and that we include as much as possible the effects of brexit and therefore want to present the next financial framework as early as possible and as late as is sensible - as early as possible and as late as is sensible - before the summer break, in any case, perhaps in late spring. we are talking about five years or seven years - we all know the arguments - about five plus five years, and we should see that the reflection paper is a reflection on traditional and new tasks and responsibilities in the european union. i see two or three gaps in europe's finances for the next decade. the first gap: after a period of transformation, we will be structurally short of ten or eleven billion euros per year after the united kingdom's withdrawal, because the british have been net payers, whether because of their economic strength or their high per capita gnp. and we need to close that gap. the second gap is created by new tasks and responsibilities which are perceived in a sensible european way. i would like to say in general that we must have ambition. i would like to make this a specific requirement for all my reflections: for every euro, for every cent that we invest in a european way through the european budget, we should demonstrate the added value. that is the principle of subsidiarity. in other words, if a task, a project, can be carried out by the member states as well and at the same cost, then there is no added value. i would therefore like to speak to you, also on paper, about the question: what is added value? four examples: when we tackle a major research programme or a major project like galileo or high-performance computing or robotics together, because no company can do this alone and certainly no member state can do this alone, there is added value for the european economy, our labour markets in global competition. second example: if we build the railway line along the danube from austria to the black sea cross-border , there is a clear added value if this is coordinated and co-financed at european level the connecting europe facility . third example even more difficult: erasmus+ is a great success story. we could also say: why are we making this a european financing? because i believe that on the one hand it forms people - young people - interested in europe, gives them the opportunity to know other foreign regions, cultures, languages, and often makes lifelong friendships. that's why we see value in it. but now, if a railway line starts in bulgaria and ends in bulgaria - in a country - and is co-financed by us through the cohesion fund, is there any added value? it's getting harder. i believe that we can do so by making member states where the per capita gdp is less than eur 10 000 and where the per capita gdp of other member states is 40 000, 50 000, 60 000 - four, five, six times as high - more competitive, by making their location more attractive, by improving the quality of life and by bringing those member states - our citizens - closer to the european average in terms of income, standard of living and the labour market. but as i said, we want to prove the definition of 'added value' in the financial framework for each project and programme. the cohesion funds certainly play an important role. i am therefore grateful that mrs creţu was a co-author and co-author of this paper, because her programmes are of the greatest importance for the infrastructure and economic and social development of europe. the new tasks include migration, border protection, border control, defence research, defence. if we look at all these new tasks, which are perceived as more meaningful, cheaper, more efficient in europe and thus relieve the member states, we will soon see another gap of 10 billion, 10 plus 10 at least. and then the ambition to perhaps bring funds from outside the european development fund into the budget, to satisfy the parliament's royal prerogative in full, and to put you in overall responsibility as co-legislator for all financial flows at european level, could be a third point. and that is what we have to do together - and that is what this paper is for - to examine how we can close these two or three gaps - 20 to 25 billion euros a year. we're denied access to the bank and the debt. europe is the only level which does not have debts, is not allowed to have debts, or does not want to have debts, unlike the member states, regions and local authorities. we should therefore also be aware of the options - although, if i may be frank, option two (europe is reduced to the single market, nothing else) is not my option, a purely theoretical, fundamental option, i am more between five and three and five and four, but still open to results - before we ask the member states for new money, we must see that our investments get even better. the balance of payments is for that purpose. we must modernise our programmes, if possible, simplify them, we must be even more flexible in the future, we must make sure that the investments we make, project by project, are convincing and that they bring a lasting benefit in terms of economic power, quality of the site and jobs, and not just a simple fire, but a lasting one. so we might say: we need to close the brexit gap by optimising and cutting and re-scheduling, but also by new money 50/50 or 40/60 or 60/40. but the new tasks we are undertaking - when we co-finance defence investments, weapons orders - we relieve the member states of the burden. that is to say, in the case of new tasks, we need first of all fresh money, supplementary revenue from the member states. the main issue is the diversification of income. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if not now, when? if you have new tasks, if you are tackling substantially new tasks, you should also have the courage to propose new revenue sources for them in addition to existing sources of revenue. the link to energy, to the ets, to co2 emissions and their purchase, or the financial transaction tax nine proposals were made. we are waiting for your response and that of the public and then we will certainly include two or three of these proposed options on the revenue side in our mff proposal in late spring next year. we have to look at the discounts. the british then negotiated a permanent discount. if the british leave, this is an opportunity, no, a logical reason, that all the other discounts, which were invented just for the sake of the british discount, which expire purely legally at the end of 2020, will not be renewed. i want to see the children dismissed when the mother of all discounts leaves, and thus achieve a significant simplification of administration and a reduction in bureaucracy. a budget without rebates and thus with far less cow trading would be a step towards a decision, particularly by the member states in the council. ladies and gentlemen, i want to come back again and ask you not to, because we do not want to work, if you are expecting it, we will present our budgetary framework before the end of the year. but we will certainly have to make a supplementary proposal in the summer of next year, because only then will the consequences of brexit become clear. my request is this: please note that the commission will present its financial framework for the next decade, based on the evaluation of the reflection paper on finance 2020, 2025 and on the basis of a robust interim result by michel barnier, before the summer of next year, in late spring, as early as possible, as late as is reasonable in order to safeguard budgetary truth and clarity . my request is that you take part and, if we come back with our mff later, i will offer to all the political groups, the committee on budgets and every member that we will discuss in advance with political commitment the specific points which are clear - the abolition of rebates, own resources, new priorities - and that your expectations will be incorporated as fully as possible in the commission's draft which will then be developed. we should make the best of the time until the summer of next year so that we can start the discussions with the council immediately afterwards - perhaps even before the next european elections.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a remark to make to all my colleagues, because i see that they rightly look with concern to the future of eu resources. what's the bottom line? that when the monetary policies put in place by the ecb in this extraordinary period fail, we will still be dealing with what is the structural economic problem of the european union, namely a situation where expansionary austerity does not work, where the member states will still, very likely, fall into a recessionary phase and where it will be very difficult to ask for a greater contribution from these states. we need a thorough and also a quick review of what the problems are with expansionary austerity: it's a contradiction, something that doesn't work. there is a monetary drug in play, and we must sound the alarm now if we are to reverse this trend, and then we can even talk about, perhaps, giving some more resources to interesting joint projects. but as long as this dogma of expansionary austerity remains, which is a great contradiction, we will not be able to bring any results home.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that while europe, the real europe (not the eu), and its citizens are sinking, the european commission is finding time to reflect, publishing dozens and dozens of meaningless papers to pretend that there is a semblance of democracy and that decisions are not taken at the table. i think it is already quite clear what will happen with the next post-brexit multiannual financial framework and what the commission's idea is. it is not, as i think it would be logical, given the departure of 60 million citizens from the eu, to reduce commitments and payments, but to ask european citizens for even more money through new community taxes disguised as 'own resources' or through increased transfers, especially from net contributors such as my own country, italy. i welcome what the commissioner said about the effectiveness and results of the budget lines, but words must follow deeds. we've been talking for too long, and we've been talking about performance budgeting and doing nothing. i want to know what concrete results are produced by major budget lines and major financial lines in the budget, and whether there are - and i think there are - budget lines or tasks that can be done better at national level. i am talking, for example, about the 8 billion we have spent on the youth guarantee, without any significant results: there are millions and millions of unemployed in the european union and youth unemployment has reached record levels. i am talking about the 5 billion in pre-accession funds we are giving to turkey, a country ruled by a dictator. i am talking about the billions of euros spent by the commission every year on propaganda. it is clear that we must think more deeply and that the next multiannual financial framework must be based on a budget which is not used as political propaganda, as is unfortunately the case today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commission and the commissioner for the work they are doing and for the debate, and of course also my colleagues. it's a high-profile, high-level discussion, which forces us to answer the challenges, the questions that are before us. and the main question is, when we discuss something which has to do with the future, what kind of europe do we want for the next few years. that is the fundamental question. there is a europe that is surviving itself and surviving what it has been up to now, or there is a europe that is growing again, a europe that is trying to challenge modernity and contemporaneity, a europe that is trying to relaunch its political project and relaunch its policies. the next financial framework we are going to have to work on, which you are going to have to work on - and then we - must therefore give the citizens certain answers for the coming years. we can no longer have a financial framework that is uncertain and indeterminate. we must give certain answers, and above all, we must give certain answers, new, innovative and also definitive, with a very, very clear orientation and horizon. and these answers must be given above all to young people, who have not had answers in recent years, to businesses, investors and citizens in general. i understand very well what you are saying, commissioner, about the need to work with urgency, but also to wait for events to unfold, to wait until next summer to have a clear picture, to understand what picture to present for the next financial framework. but, you see, we need these challenges, these answers that citizens expect, to be given and given quickly enough. and i would say that we need to link up the issue of own resources, too, and at the same time we need a new, modern budget which is also independent of the wishes of the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament has consistently called for the union's budget to be financed from its own resources. we need new resources to reduce the share of national contributions to the union budget considerably and also to make up the 11 billion-a-year gap caused by the withdrawal of the united kingdom. there is a wide range of possible new resources, such as a tax on financial transactions and multinationals, a serious reform of the emissions trading system and taxation of coal, taxation of transport, taxation of electricity. but we cannot afford to cut back on agriculture, as the reflection paper warns. farmers have suffered the most from the economic crisis and their position in the food chain is not something that can be solved by technical means. but we cannot penalise cohesion policy either, not least because in recent years social inequality has increased exponentially in many areas of the continent.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think that your remarks were the beginning of our reflection together. the white paper and therefore these five papers are addressed first and foremost to the member states, but the equivalent addressee is also you, all the more so when the white paper process involves budgetary matters, which should be your prerogative. that is why i think this timely report is an important starting point. we'll evaluate your comments and be happy to get back to you. the point is this: a household currently has about 150 billion in income and expenditure. when the british leave, we're missing 15 percent of the revenue, we're missing 23 billion, and so the thinking is that the budget structure of the next decade will be either 125 billion a year, or 150 billion a year, or 160 billion a year. we're moving in the arc of tension between 125 and 160. you know this very well, because you are not floating in an empty space here - nor am i, for that matter, i speak every day with ministers from our remaining 27 member states, including representatives of the regions. there are a number of member states which say that if the british leave, there will be no money. but the one percent cap may remain. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. so let's see, 150 minus 23 is 127... that's it. i agree with mr geier. this budget is structurally very limited and even underfunded. we can balance by flexibility between budget years and between budget chapters what is necessary to finance new tasks and to maintain existing programmes. i would like to say this immediately, because i feel that the two major programmes for investment and expenditure, the two-pillar agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, should not be scrapped, however we decide. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat is a very good one, and i hope that the commission will take it up with the council. this task will remain a major priority of the next budget, especially in the light of the enlargement of the last decade. i can't guarantee the funds will be there, but we'll avoid any cutbacks. the two pillars, the two major programmes, must remain effective. we will use our spending report to show where we can improve. i would say that we are not bad, and that is the result of the court of auditors, our internal audit process in the commission and your competent committee on budgetary control. we're not that bad. i know budgets and budgetary execution at the local, regional and national level. in comparison, i would like to say that the quality of our budget advice is good, that our budget execution is orderly, that accounting and controls are carried out, that misuse is avoided to the greatest extent possible the error rate will continue to decrease in 2016 (we will tell you this in a few weeks) and that the added value of our investments is quite considerable, the number of investments lost is manageable. the balance of expenditure is intended to deepen this consideration. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to ask you to take a look at the commission's proposals. no, they're not all in recession anymore. we have a few countries which are still stagnating, but most of them, including the programme countries - ireland, portugal, spain, cyprus - are doing much better than was envisaged two years ago. europe is currently doing surprisingly well with its economy, with its structural growth and with the issue of new jobs still too high on the agenda. we have for the first time again shown a slight advantage in terms of economic growth over the united states. we shouldn't talk worse than we are. the crucial question is whether the one per cent ceiling remains - it has also been mentioned. i am not talking about three or two per cent, but if we do not get something minus 11, 1, 2, 1, 25 above one, then the fulfillment of our tasks will not go. and i want to avoid competition, or competition, in financing migration and defence at the expense of cohesion funds. that would be a new division in our european family. some might say: 'yes, refugees do not want to go to the structurally weak areas, they want to go to denmark, sweden, the netherlands, germany and austria, so they become net contributors.' if they then make investments in migration at the expense of the cohesion funds, i want to avoid this division in any case. we need an integrated approach for the next multiannual financial framework. the net contributors have also been discussed. of every euro that goes to brussels from berlin or vienna, for example, and then back to bratislava, tallinn, warsaw and riga, 60 per cent, 70 per cent, plus national funds, goes back to the construction industry, the building materials industry, the construction equipment industry, the construction trades, civil engineering, plant engineering, mechanical engineering, truck engineering, planning offices and architectural offices. my country is in fact the net beneficiary of a common european cohesion and investment policy. should structural funds be given only to the poorest regions? i'm open to the question. but it says we need acceptance. and if it's just poor regions, acceptance decreases in economically stronger regions. that would be anything but integration, that would be far from solidarity. and since there are often crossborder projects interreg , we should ensure that each region that wants to cooperate with other regions in other member states to implement projects has some funds from us so that it can come together from the european budget to implement projects. mr solé, we take the 20% target for climate protection seriously. we are seeing this month after month in the implementation of the budget, the court of auditors is currently examining this and is presenting a report to you, and i would like to suggest that we can say at the end of the day - and make this the basis for the next draft budget - that the 20% is demonstrable in expenditure and investment in favour of energy saving and climate protection in the implementation of the budget. we don't want to run a union. we do not want to burden the citizens with new taxes, but let us consider: climate protection is a european policy, paris, marrakesh is a european success story. the ets is european legislation. industrial companies, steelworks and coal-fired power stations buy licences on european stock exchanges for emission allowances. all the legislation of this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it would be two sides of a single coin - legislation and revenue. we shall have to examine the question of conditionality. keyword bicycle path: so, mr van dalen, i can no longer see him either, in general the critical voices are all absent, and those in favour are present. anyway: we do not want bicycle paths, bicycle paths are useful for reasons of mobility and environmental protection. but whether it is a cycle path, a bypass or a town hall, the member state decides, because until now it has been the member states or the regions who decide what they want to do with our structural funds. this is where our thinking turns to the european semester and country-specific recommendations. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and whether he is prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on budgets. a thought from my previous field: we could very precisely pinpoint where in rural areas the digital infrastructure is poor, where there are radio holes, where you should invest in broadband, in fiber optic. if this were a priority in the recommendations, which are ultimately decided by the council, developed by the commission and the member state, then the member states would be obliged to draw considerable funds from our structural funds for this. the interesting question is: is this still complementary to the rule of law, i.e. civil rights and the rule of law, as a condition for the call for funds? we also put this in the room with our reflection paper. i want to come to the timing. if you don't mind, i would just like to give you my impression here that you are not pleased, but in the circumstances white paper process and brexit are prepared to take note when the commission, and that the commission will present its proposal, its financial framework, in late spring, at least before the summer break next year. if clarity comes sooner barnier and davis, brexit negotiations , then sooner accordingly. that is, as early as possible and as late as reasonably practicable. the crucial point is that if the proposal is on your table in may or june next year because of me, then there will be two large time windows for the discussions in parliament and the council, and ultimately in the european council. i'll point you to it. we're just the service people here. you decide, and the council decides when. and both time windows are about a year long. the one time window would be the usual one: at the very back with time pressure so five before twelve to five after twelve. it would be after your european elections, when you first have to set up, organise your internal structures, appoint functions, then there was the summer break, then the new parliament, with many new members, with fresh air, but also without experience, will perhaps be ready in november. we have a new commission - the next commission - on 1 november. that leaves a window of time from november 2019 to november 2020 one year. the other window of time - check it out - would be: we present in may and we negotiate from may 2018 to may 2019, with the time pressure of the upcoming european elections, with this parliament, with your experience, with our jean-claude juncker commission. the advantage of the second window would be clear. we were late the last time. we were before christmas 2013 - that was the barroso commission, not a change of commission, by the way - it was the same parliament, and it was finished by lewandowski, your colleague, just before christmas. 2014 was a lost year because the implementation, the implementation, until the rural areas had the guidelines, was in early 2015. we've had a year, basically, without any significant implementation. it is only now, in 2017, that our structural programmes are moving at full speed. should we allow ourselves to do this again? shouldn't we learn from our mistakes? if we want to continue with full speed on research, defence, structural policy, infrastructure, rural areas and agriculture immediately after the 2020 budget, we would need the council and parliament to adopt our financial framework much earlier. the question is to you, and the question is to the council and the european council: when will the heads of state and government finally be inclined to look at our financial framework? but not by laying hands on it, but by intense processing. and if that decision is clear time window november 2019 to november 2020, or time window may june 2018 to may 2019, each one year, then we can prepare accordingly at home. you decide.
the debate is closed. the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be notified subsequently. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. as challenges increase, new areas of action at european level are opening up, such as migration, internal and external security, defence and the social pillar. europe, which also maintains a leading role on the world stage as a leader in the fight against climate change, must be able to respond concretely to the growing challenges, in a context where the eu budget will be designed to cope with the uk's exit. today, the bulk of the eu budget comes from the member states' coffers, with a small portion coming from customs duties and value added tax. the mechanisms for financing the budget should therefore be reviewed and the possibility considered that, as requested by the socialist and democratic group, contributions to the eu budget by the member states are not calculated in the deficit account. the successes of investments such as horizon 2020 and erasmus+ can serve as an example for a budgetary review that responds to the concrete needs of citizens, drawing resources far beyond the contributions of individual member states.
the agenda includes the report by mr siegfried mureşan, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the mandate for the trilogue on the 2018 draft budget (2017/2043(bud)) (a8-0249/2017).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you also for your understanding. i would like to thank you, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mureșan, with whom i would like to say that we are making an interesting, important, very good progress, and the work we are doing is genuine parliamentary work, not just part-time work. this is of course a tribute to the work of the honourable member and i believe it is also a tribute to the work we are doing as a house. what we are discussing in these hours, these days, and which we will vote on tomorrow, is a very broad mandate, in my view, a mandate which will enable our rapporteur and therefore our institution to discuss broadly, in a very clear and serious way, with the council and the commission the prospects for next year's budget. what we have discussed in these weeks, in these months, and which we will be voting on tomorrow, really has to do with some of the answers that the citizens are asking us, especially on the most important, most urgent issues, and so i am thinking of course of work, i am thinking of investment, i am thinking of the need to have a europe that grows again - and these considerations are made - that also has a vision. of course we cannot hide - and mr mureșan knows this, and the other members know this - that there are still differences in this parliament, that there are still elements which we will have to deal with, of course, with the commission - and i also thank commissioner oettinger for the support he will give us - and then with the council: i think about immigration issues, i think about security issues, i think about issues related to youth mobility as well. but i am sure that with this document, and with the vote we will have tomorrow, our parliament will have a very strong position, our rapporteur will have a very strong position to be able to go and start this negotiation with the council for next year's budget. thank you, mr. president, again, thank you for your understanding.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable growth, socioeconomic cohesion, security, migration and climate change remain the main priorities of the 2018 budget of the european union. but there are other aspects to consider. i agree with the commission's proposals for increases in the youth guarantee, for example, although they are still insufficient. this initiative needs to be further improved and made more efficient, ensuring that it brings real european added value to the youth employment policies of the member states, and not replacing existing national policies. but the cut in the cosme programme is not acceptable. smes play a key role in job creation and the adequacy of funding for this category of enterprises must remain a priority in the eu budget. finally, the unprecedented use of special instruments has demonstrated that the union budget was not originally designed to address problems such as the current migration and refugee crisis. the proposed cuts are not in line with the european union's commitment to tackle the migration problem in an efficient and appropriate manner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, saudi arabia is 134th out of 145 countries in the un's own incredible gender disparity index. i think there is really only one word to describe even this debate, to describe this very serious decision to choose saudi arabia as a member, to elect saudi arabia as a member of this committee which is meant to promote and deal with, precisely, the status of women. and the word, commissioner, is "ridiculous". that is the word you should have used and the one we should have wanted to hear, because we know dramatically too much about the situation of women in that country, we know everything. then you will understand that we are here to ask you to account for this decision which continues to seem to us to be truly incomprehensible and extremely serious! and so we ask you to account: how was it possible to reach such a decision, such an election? i fear that, as is often the case, other interests are prevailing, not just in the area of women's rights. and so i think it's time to really put an end to this nonsense that we're forced to see on a daily basis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to conceal the strong resentment caused by the vote which elected saudi arabia to the united nations commission on the status of women: it is a country of ultraconservatives, with no rights and where women are systematically discriminated against. what can i say? this election is a slap in the face of common sense and there is no reason in the state to say it forcefully and decisively. now, commissioner, you have suggested a path of political realism, which states: "it was not europe, but some member states that voted in favour. the vote is over, there is no turning back, we are working to change things in riyadh". i have the impression that your political realism will have to deal with those european countries which voted 'yes' to saudi arabia in order to obtain in return, or to continue, the trade in arms, and which have no rights in mind. and so i would like to hear from you tonight what tools the european union intends to use to really change things in riyadh.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'a girl has nothing but her veil and her grave': it's a famous saying from saudi arabia, the same country that has been given full membership in the united nations commission on the status of women for the next four years. the royal decree of last may has, yes, graciously cancelled a series of regulations that depicted women as a minority, but can we forget that in that country women must submit to a guardian who accompanies every important decision, from birth, to travel, to death? that they can't show themselves in public without a man accompanying them, let alone drive any vehicle, even a bicycle? someone said this entrance is an encouragement to them. i say that it is a disgrace, and it is a disgrace for us, and above all for the member states of the union which voted in favour. colleagues, commissioner, all this has happened while raif badawi, our sakharov prize winner, is still in prison. i remind you that consistency and principle are worth more than a handful of guns sold for another handful of oil dollars.
i would like to thank mrs elena valenciano for her excellent work and to stress that this resolution marks a new chapter in the history of relations between cuba and the european union. it is not, however, the final chapter, because the most important work is just now beginning, with this text. the document we are discussing today must be taken as a starting point for deepening dialogue and cooperation with the island, including with regard to human rights. cuba must work to eliminate the many and varied forms of discrimination which still afflict its society and which do not allow respect for the fundamental principles of humanity. it is essential that this country accelerates its progress towards the realization of these rights, and we are convinced that the agreement can help to achieve this and that it can offer its citizens the conditions for a more dignified life. the european union should also identify effective instruments for measuring the parameters for the proper implementation of the europe-cuba agreements. it is up to both of us to assess progress if we want cuba to make this important journey and to produce, as we hope, good results.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, there have been few times in recent years when, as a member of the european parliament, i have felt proud of this european union. the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and cuba makes me a proud european citizen today. sustainable agriculture, food security, support for the better use of natural resources, vital for sustainable development, and the commitment to inclusive economic and social modernisation - this is music to our ears and to the well-being of our soul and human conscience. i hope that this agreement will represent a firm step for cuba towards the conquest of its full rights as a sovereign people and of civil and democratic freedoms. it is also appropriate to point out the path that has led to this agreement: the will to have a respectful dialogue meeting, based on the sovereignty and independence of cuba and that of the european union. the resolution to be voted on not only represents an agreement on cooperation for development and political dialogue between europe and cuba, but also represents an exemplary model to be replicated in other realities and by all the developing countries of the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote will put the common position on relations with cuba, adopted in 1996, behind us once and for all. this is a historic and unique opportunity to relaunch a process with a country which certainly has important criticisms of respect for human rights, but which has also suffered immensely from an absurd embargo which has brought an entire people to its knees from a social and health point of view. to point the finger only at the shortcomings of our partners, to close ourselves in ideological clashes that are out of date: this is what some people wanted, who use very different meters with other partners. but that would be useless to the cuban people and unworthy of the union we must be. tomorrow, however, a journey will begin, which will be certainly challenging but essential for a partnership of friendship and sustainable development, to turn the page on our nations and also on the entire cuban people. and we want to walk this path together with the cuban people.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president mogherini, i thank rapporteur brok and the shadow rapporteurs of the cult and afet committees, but also the many partners from the world of culture and art who have collaborated with us on our report. dear vice-president mogherini, you know very well how we in parliament have been fighting since 2011 to develop a european cultural strategy in the international arena with our report, which was followed by an important preparatory action up to the specific address included in the conclusions of the italian presidency in 2014. i am very moved to recall the important resolution of two years ago, which i see reflected in your proposal, after the destruction of the cultural heritage of nineveh and palmyra by daesh, with the barbarous murder of khaled al-asaad, for a common european commitment to prosecute what we consider a crime against humanity. we appreciate the commission's support for the documentation and reconstruction work and its commitment to present a directive on the illicit trafficking and importation of cultural property, which is the subject of a recent important council of europe convention. you also know that we have fought with specific proposals to make culture and education a priority for the commission, also in two other areas: as a tool for freedom, for human promotion, for intercultural and interreligious dialogue, and also for preventing radicalisation, but also as the fourth pillar of sustainable development, a driver of creativity and innovation, a new economy, quality employment, tourism. in the communication, which we very much appreciated, we find these three areas as priority areas of a new european strategy which, while recognising the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, intends to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the member states in the field of international cultural relations. this will be good for europe, but it will also be good for the world. europe shares a wealth of cultural, linguistic, historical and religious roots, on which it has built common values and a culture of human rights, which are a means of understanding other cultures. that is why it is important for us that europe, also in its external action, recognises the intrinsic value of culture and cultural rights in the context of human rights, along with freedom of art and expression, thus giving coherence to the eu's policy and action in the international arena and making it a truly global, authoritative actor in the work of reconciliation and peace. structured dialogue with cultural actors and stakeholders, multiannual partnerships with international organisations such as unesco and the council of europe, in particular for cultural heritage and trans-european cultural routes, but also the experimentation of the european cultural platform will be fundamental. we want this strategy to be effective, by including culture and education in all agreements and partnerships between europe and third countries, starting with the renewal of cotonou with the acp countries. but what is needed is good multi-level governance, as we have indicated, strong coordination between the four dgs concerned, a dedicated budget line and adequate human resources in the eeas, with thematic and geographical priorities defined in annual and triennial plans. each european delegation will gradually have to establish a dedicated focal point, which will engage in dialogue with civil society, cultural institutions of the european union and local authorities, with a people-to-people approach. it will be important to develop the international dimension of european programmes such as erasmus and horizon, and above all greater coordination is needed to prevent and reconstruct cultural heritage at risk or destroyed, also giving rise to that intervention initiated by unesco, which unfortunately sees only italian participation with the blue helmets of culture. we propose to set up a new international mobility programme of artist residencies for young artists and cultural professionals, a european cultural portal and digitisation as a major use for new languages for young people, also by activating the european media. we want the current situation of refugees and migration processes to have a strong cultural dimension, which is essential for a future of peace.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the speakers for their contributions. as mr brok said, this coral of sharing really shows that europe needs culture and that we are all perhaps more aware of this than at the beginning of this term. i'm very pleased. it means we've worked well together. parliament, the commission and the council. i would just like to say that federica mogherini is right. of course i also thank commissioner navracsics, even though he is not here, because it was a joint production, and all his staff are right. i have already had an effect, i have seen it myself, in the sense that not only are there two committees in parliament for the first time dealing with a subject like this together, and they are important committees, but also that an integrated task force has actually been set up in the commission between different dgs, which is already a very promising result, overcoming the somewhat siloed approach which is what sometimes sets us apart. i think another fruit is what you mentioned: we have made a great request to the commission, in particular to the directorate-general for culture, and the atmosphere that has been created has certainly helped tunisia to become the first country in the southern mediterranean to be able to participate in the creative europe programme. i too hope that the european union, as you have said, and we look forward to this initiative by the council, will be able to take the initiative as the european union in joining the task force for the protection of cultural heritage at risk, but also in joining the european and council of europe conventions on the protection of cultural heritage. one last wish: it would be very nice if in milan, where the european cultural forum will be held for the first time in december - not in brussels, but in milan, and i am very pleased about that - where the european year of cultural heritage will be announced and european cultural diplomacy will be explained, we could think of launching, a launch event in all the european delegations, in all the cultural institutions in the world of this great initiative: the european year has an international dimension.
in writing. the report under discussion deals with a very important and complex subject. when it comes to international and cultural relations, i believe that we must avoid maintaining an ethnocentric and self-referential attitude. this would not only be contrary to the founding values of the european union and the very idea of aiding and developing the poorest countries, but would also be counterproductive to that end. the european union should promote its own culture in terms of reciprocity, thus avoiding the imposition of its cultural hegemony, which is too often used as a crutch to impose precise economic and legal choices. the choice too often has concealed, and continues to conceal, economic and human misfortunes. culture and cultural heritage are common goods that belong to everyone and as such must be safeguarded and managed. only by example, and not by aseptic export, can the european union make known to other countries the importance of its own values and culture, while respecting the values and cultures of others.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner jourová, commissioner oettinger, i first of all thank the rapporteurs for the difficult but important work they have done through years of intensive negotiations to define the text of the pif directive which, together with the forthcoming establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, represents a key step on the road to the harmonization of criminal law and will form the backbone of the new criminal justice system to combat fraud and corruption, which have cost the eu budget some eur 1 trillion. among the most significant provisions of the directive is the reference to the union legislation on combating money laundering and corruption, which is essential to tackle the activities of criminal groups that, through these offences, obtain money to use in their illicit activities. the introduction of vat fraud in the legislative text is also particularly important, as has been said, and represents a fundamental step forward in ensuring more comprehensive protection against financial crimes against the union.
in writing. the union's financial interests can only be effectively protected in an integrated manner. the criminal law in this area must therefore be adopted at european level and this report is a first step in that direction. vat fraud is an important part of the fraud in question and is facilitated by the very existence of the internal market (so-called 'carousel fraud'). the fact that these are included in the scope of the directive is very important, as is the fact that the relevant threshold is part of the aspects subject to review in three years' time. the same applies to fraud in the management of public contracts, another major problem for many countries, including our own. the text is therefore, as i said, only a first step, but it is certainly going in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, we read yesterday that you said that the commission could not give its reaction because austria had not notified the brenner border controls. unfortunately, the front pages of the italian newspapers are full of this very news today, and you can imagine how the citizens react, indeed. unfortunately, the veil of hypocrisy has fallen, and we can say this clearly, because the european countries look different in words, but in fact they are all the same, they are all the same. in berlin, someone had the illusion that he had brought home some results; apart from the rhetoric, we have brought home a very meager result, the code for ngos, while the ports of other european countries remain all sealed. that is why we place our hopes in the g20. you have also said that this is the most important international forum for sharing cooperation. we hope that this forum will take up the issue of migration in the mediterranean, a phenomenon of such proportions that it must be dealt with by the entire international community. and i have a message for president juncker: please don't settle for ridiculous solutions, and bring home something concrete. we remembered helmut kohl in this chamber on saturday. he was remembered as a man of the future, because he chose the right path and history followed him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in that case, we won't regret it much.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, estonia is the country where the revolution of voting via the internet began, and it is the first time that it is holding the presidency of the council. estonia indicates four priorities, which are clearly shared: an open and innovative european economy, a secure, digital, inclusive and sustainable europe. but in the past, we've seen great promises that were hidden by something less glamorous. and unfortunately, behind the estonian screen, we find the commission's priorities, with its foot on the accelerator, on the capital markets union, on the efsi, on the banking union, but also on the omnibus and on the increase in military spending which is supported by the joint declaration with nato a year ago. nothing new under the sun, then. i would like estonia to reverse the trend towards a long-standing tradition of states using this opportunity to achieve greater prestige, with fine words but unfortunately empty policies. has estonia succeeded in revolutionizing its electoral system? well, bring a wind of change here too, because the citizens of europe would really need it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, good work. beyond electronic voting, i think there are two emergencies in europe: i am not going to go into the details of the matter. unemployment theme: there are 20 million unemployed european citizens, of whom 4 million are young people. so i ask the commission and the presidency to stop giving gifts to multinationals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 300 000 farms producing wheat at risk; i would ask the commission to stop passing crazy directives like the banking directive and the bolkestein directive. we must stop giving free of charge the landing of thousands of tonnes of tunisian oil, moroccan tomatoes, cambodian or thai rice on our tables, with the health of our children paying the price. to remove sanctions against russia, which must be a trading partner and not an enemy, and which is not about to invade anything and anyone; and to defend the borders. i understand that estonia doesn't have this big problem because it hosts at most 150 immigrants. italy is becoming a huge refugee camp. in this building, someone said, "long live macron, long live france!" and now macron is closing the ports to foreign ships. someone said: "long live austria, which stopped the populists!" and austria puts the army and armored vehicles on the border with italy. can we stop letting them invade? five hundred million european citizens pay you to give them jobs and security, not to give gifts to boatmen and bankers. good work, guys.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister, in six months' time, when we take stock of this presidency, it is easy to predict that we will be talking about the excellent results in the field of digital technology and innovation. we ask you instead, mr prime minister, to amaze us, not on digital, but on the issue of immigration and refugees. we are surprised that the council is committing itself, starting with the next summit in tallinn, to the issue of the reception and relocation of refugees. we are surprised that the leader of the northern country is able to find real solutions to a crisis which is being borne predominantly and exclusively by the countries of the south. what is the point of a digital europe if it is not a europe of solidarity? and what is the point of an innovative europe if we do not preserve the values which are at the basis of our being europeans? mr president, be ambitious: the european union must be able to tackle the difficult issues where many others have failed, and hold european leaders accountable for their history. that is why we would like to remind ourselves of the semester that opens today. good luck with that.
madam chairman, i did not support this motion. i believe that at a time when cuba is still ruled by the communist party, when there is a communist dictatorship, when there are political prisoners, we should be more careful in strengthening cooperation with this country. in short, i think that today's agreement is a kind of sacrifice of the principle of protecting human rights over economic interests and over the interests we should be defending, that is to say the interests of european trade and business, and above all the principles of human rights, freedom and democracy. i am in favour of working with cuba, but the form of cooperation we have today, with regard to an important agreement, is, in my view, a premature step. only when cuba shows concrete changes, concrete moves towards democracy, towards the protection of human rights, then, in my view, should we support such an agreement. but at this point, i think it's a premature step.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am making a statement of vote on behalf of my group. as the gue/ngl group we voted in favour of the eu-cuba political dialogue and cooperation agreement because this agreement represents a step forward in bilateral relations between the european union and cuba, putting an end to a common position which was guided by the logic of the cold war. the same logic, however, unfortunately inspired the resolution accompanying the agreement which, with the votes of the right wing of this parliament, instead of strengthening the agreement itself and its implementation, seems to follow the agenda of the new us administration more than that of the european union, and for this reason we voted against it. in the resolution, with the amendments voted today, the call for the lifting of the us economic embargo, which has been demanded by the un general assembly since 1992 - we would like to remind you of this - is softened to the point of almost disappearing. the european parliament has thus expressed a more backward position today than that of the council and the member states. why would you do that? for whom, if not to please an ideological vision that we heard expressed by my colleague a short while ago, to please the american right, which wants to impose on cuba a destiny decided in miami and not by its own people? cuba is the target of the neoliberal right wing in the world and in europe because, despite the embargo, it has managed over the years to build an excellent health, education, sports and cultural system, an example for all developing countries. we demand an end to the embargo. we are absolutely asking for this in this house, with conviction, we have also asked for it through an appeal and a petition supported by members of parliament not only from my group in this house. we express once again our solidarity and our gratitude for the struggle of the cuban people. hail to the victory!
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with tomorrow's vote the house will finally take note of what we have been saying for some time: turkey does not qualify as a candidate country for the european union. the unacceptable changes proposed to the constitution, the referendum campaign and the referendum itself, not to mention the polemics against some member states, the purges in the public administration and the crushing of press freedom, make more and more evident an authoritarian tendency manifested by erdoğan which, in fact, we have denounced for too many years. it was therefore inevitable - and i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work we have done together - that this annual report should finally formalize this state of affairs and give us the benefit of the doubt. the request to officially suspend the negotiations when these constitutional amendments are implemented was and is due. and so it is also true that talk of visa liberalization is out of touch with reality today. yet, despite this election campaign, which the osce has called unfair, because of the lack of equal opportunities, the one-sided coverage and the limitations on fundamental freedoms, the 'yes' in the four big cities, in the four largest cities, won by a wide margin, and indeed lost in these most important centres. it means that many citizens have realized that civil society is more alive than ever. yes, we cannot give up turkey, but above all we must not give up the turkish people. the future of ankara is written in the eyes and courage of university students who protested against the rectors imposed on them by erdoğan, to defend freedom of opinion, expression and teaching. it is also written in the eyes of those who march from ankara to istanbul to reaffirm the rights of the opposition and minorities, especially the kurdish one. yes, we have a duty to stand by them and to use every lever, including commercial leverage, to defend their right to rights with frankness and consistency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a brief remark to the rapporteur of this soft report on the situation in turkey. let us assume for the sake of absurdity that this debate took place in turkey which had already joined: we would be bordering syria, iraq and iran. let us assume that some of the more critical speakers had said these things with turkey already in europe: the european arrest warrants would already be ready from the prosecutors in istanbul or ankara. let us reflect on this, perhaps also thinking about the fact that yesterday we recalled the values that inspired simone veil. what would simone veil say to all these enthusiasts for continuing relations with turkey? it is a battle of freedom that must be fought in deciding whether to continue or, as we say, to break off these relations for good for the reasons which are listed in the report itself. but today i have a moral duty to remember a great freedom fighter who died a few hours ago in sardinia, in his sardinia: doddore meloni, a freedom fighter. he was a hero. you see, the italian state, which is often very weak with the real criminals, has been obsessively severe towards this tax objector, leader of the sardinian independence struggle, whom i intend to honour and remember properly. he was an honest man, a clear-sighted man, a poet with a political outlook, and this europe which should be - as he hoped and thought, as we do - a europe of peoples, regions and also of nations, of course, a europe which should be a europe of freedom, should not allow people to be imprisoned simply for dreaming of freedom in their own land. honor this patriot, and let's remind sardinia to be proud of this champion of freedom, son of a land that wants to be free, selfless and clear fighter for the independence of the island, of this beautiful sardinia, which i want to remember. so we are out, we are out of turkey and these counter-values which are the exact negation of what these patriots aspire to, these people who exalt by their example the attachment to their land, to their freedom. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome.
mr president, i have asked to speak in support of the report which is before us today and which we will be voting on tomorrow. i also like that she's objective, critical, that she doesn't try to paint reality pink. i think that the debate here has clearly shown that the absolute majority of members feel that turkey is moving away from european values, from the values of democracy, the rule of law, the protection of freedom, the individual, the press, political competitors, and i think that it is really time for the european commission to say clearly that negotiations with turkey are not only being frozen, but are being stopped. i think what our citizens want to hear is that we will not pretend in the future that the process of turkey's rapprochement with the european union is still going on and that there is some chance that turkey will join the european union. the people want to hear the truth, and the truth is that turkey has chosen a different path. but we still need to work with turkey and we need to communicate with turkey. but on a different basis than the phony effort to get turkey into the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the political choices made in the last year have moved turkey further away from accession to the european union. the support for the reintroduction of the death penalty, repeatedly expressed by the turkish president, the disproportionate measures taken following the declaration of a state of emergency, which have affected dissidents and opposition political parties, the serious violations of media freedom, the unconstitutional lifting of the immunity of a large number of members of parliament, the arrest and dismissal of over 4 000 judges and prosecutors, the lack of respect for religious freedom, all lead us to the conclusion that the rule of law is in question in turkey. however, the european union and turkey continue to share common interests in many areas - counter-terrorism and the migration crisis in particular - and cooperation in these areas represents an important investment for stability and security. dialogue and cooperation in these areas must continue, but on the condition that commitments on fundamental rights and freedoms are respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an objective contradiction which we must resolve in order to avoid appearing inconsistent between what we say and what we do. the report denounces the turkish state's human rights violations and on this basis justifies the suspension of the accession negotiations, but at the same time calls for the deepening of trade relations without any special conditions. i must say that this seems a little strange to me, because we should be aware that trade policy is a powerful lever to push forward democratic processes and the extension of rights. i wonder if by doing so we are not actually rendering our pressure weapons ineffective and, perhaps for fear of a resumption of the migration process, giving ourselves up politically to erdoğan. we are not going to make any progress for the turkish regime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the so-called juncker plan to the developing countries responds to a very specific need: there can be no integration and security without a real commitment to stabilizing the most unstable and most troubled areas of the world. but to do this, it is essential to set up clear and precise stakes: no european cooperation should support or finance regimes which do not respect human rights and minorities or which generally fail to meet minimum democratic standards. this is an important plan, but it is a plan that will have effects in the future, in the near future. but in the immediate future, given the present and current migratory situation, the only possible response from europe is solidarity between the member states with italy and greece, which are now experiencing unsustainable situations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are today approving an important instrument, the european fund for sustainable development, with the awareness that its implementation will have to be closely monitored, in a manner which this parliament has wanted to set out in black and white, and for this i thank the members who have helped to ensure our priorities in the text. public resources and development aid will remain essential, but they are not sufficient to unlock the enormous potential in africa and other neighbourhood countries and to achieve the goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the aim of the fund shall be to contribute to the fight against poverty and inequality and to create opportunities for young africans. we will see to it that he does not pursue the council's vile policies of externalizing borders and building walls in africa. projects must be carefully selected, they must bring real additionality, and the benefits must go to local people and small businesses, not to large multinationals. it is crucial to have safeguards on the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and the principles of corporate social responsibility. so we will be watching and we expect transparency from the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european fund for sustainable development will complement the european external investment plan and will provide financing in the form of grants, guarantees and other financial instruments for africa and the union's neighbourhood. it will be used to address migratory pressures arising from poverty, conflict, instability, underdevelopment, inequality, human rights violations. however, a careful monitoring phase should be carried out: if the objective is to mobilise investments of up to eur 44 billion, non-formal monitoring is needed, but it should be aimed at the quality of investments, both in terms of return and sustainability. i welcome the simplification of this fund by two regional investment platforms, one for africa and the other for the neighbourhood countries, which will act as a single point of contact for proposals from financial institutions and investors. however, it will be necessary to provide the necessary transparency by making publicly available information on all financing and investment operations covered by the guarantee of the fund.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague, mr seb dance, and those who worked with me on the opinion adopted by the committee on development. the new sustainable development goals are universal and ambitious: we can't just leave them on paper. we need a european strategy for implementation, which we have been calling for since day one, and also a clear roadmap to achieve them. the eu needs to do much more for policy coherence in development and to assess the impact of its policies on sustainability and developing countries. resources are needed, not only by reaffirming the commitment to reach 0.7%, but also by a relentless fight against tax evasion and avoidance at global level. we must also abandon the dangerous tendency to make development aid conditional on border controls. let's be clear about this: with everything that is happening around us, with american presidents denying climate change and playing with everyone's future, the european union must take the lead in implementing the new agenda and the responsibility we have towards future generations, for a future that is finally sustainable.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is unfortunately still light years away from achieving many of the sustainable development goals set out in the un agenda. we need a sharp reversal to change this direction. the report which mr dance has proposed and on which we have worked - and i thank him for his work - contains many, many positive points in many respects: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. but he still lacks courage and ambition on many fronts: i would like to refer in particular to waste management and incineration. i expect and expected that a document of this kind would be much more ambitious, because i think it's absurd that it is not and that it doesn't look far, that it doesn't try to dare a little more. instead, we find ourselves reiterating what is already written, what is already obvious. tomorrow we have the opportunity, with the amendments of the five star movement, to ask for an end to incineration subsidies, public subsidies, as called for in the same communication from the european commission earlier this year.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i would like to ask mr liese whether he does not think that the ppe group, the european centre-right, is in fact hiding what is called the 'elephant in the room', the enormous environmental impact of agriculture on the environment and also on health, by considering that meat consumption is absolutely unhealthy. so i ask you: you're not denying the evidence?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un development goals are essential targets for achieving the best possible results in terms of health, global prosperity, action against climate change and environmental protection. the integration of these objectives into the strategy for better regulation is certainly a step in the right direction, allowing european legislation to work at full speed by clearly indicating the areas in which the sustainable development goals are achieved. the various areas of intervention, however, require constant monitoring and revision of the legislation. i am referring to the effects of the ets and the sharing of effort, the european fund for sustainable development and investment in energy efficiency and renewable sources, the attempt to reduce inequalities through cohesion policy, the poverty reduction fund. many of the europe 2020 targets closely linked to the un agenda are not expected to be achieved within the timeframe. there is no doubt that if europe is to continue to lead, it must accelerate the implementation of its sustainability policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two minutes is too long to talk about this subject, also because this parliament has been in agreement on having a single seat since 1981 and i think that if we were to hold a referendum among the european citizens, the overwhelming majority would be in favour of a seat for parliament, and perhaps some would not even have one. so you can see how 114 million euros a year is an insult to all the citizens who struggle to pay taxes to carry on the democratic processes; i understand that 11 000 to 19 000 tonnes of co2 is another insult to a parliament which is trying to do its best to eliminate the climate shocks caused by emissions. so try to understand how easy it is, from my point of view, because if we were in government in italy, we, as the five star movement, would certainly be in favour of a measure to have only one seat. here in this parliament all the governments which govern europe are represented in some way. get on the phone, call your heads of state: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i hope that they will be agreed quickly because the citizens, parliament and common sense have already spoken out on several occasions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the single seat has been discussed in this house for many years, and this parliament has been speaking for many years to overcome the present situation which forces us to divide our work between two seats. but one simple mistake must be avoided: the commission's proposal is to remove from its historical significance the reasons which have brought the official seat of our institution here to strasbourg, the border town, a symbol of peace. today, however, the historical situation is different from that of many decades ago: the institution representing the european citizens can no longer fall victim to the intergovernmental logic of cross-border vetoes. today it has the duty to emancipate itself, by forcefully demanding a reform of the treaties which not only allows us to decide where we meet, but which finally allows us to change the direction - i say in a federalist sense - of the structures and policies of our union in order to overcome the innumerable deadlocks which are damaging to european citizens in the fields of economic, social and common external action, even before and far beyond the very important question of our common seat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for decades the european union has been wasting hundreds of millions of euros every year to maintain the two seats of parliament in strasbourg and brussels. despite austerity, cuts and real emergencies like immigration, every year we repeat this double-seat speech, and every year the council does not make a step forward in amending the treaties. the petition for the single seat, signed in 2015 by over a million citizens, has gone unnoticed, as have hundreds of newspaper articles and reports about this incredible and seemingly unstoppable waste. i find it embarrassing that the european union imposes its priorities on resource efficiency, sustainability and the circular economy, and then maintains such a blatant and unnecessary waste. one of the two seats must be abolished if we are to restore credibility to the european institutions. we have a duty to show the citizens that we are the first to believe in the renewal we promote every day.
in writing. the debate on the single seat of the european parliament is now surreal. it has been constantly proposed for more than 30 years, practically since the european parliament was first elected by universal suffrage, but now it seems to have been reduced to a dialogue between the deaf. the council and the commission have made statements in this debate which show that they are not responsible for this and are putting the blame on the member states of the union. i shall not be here today to recall the waste, inefficiency and inconsistencies which would justify a single and sustainable seat for the european parliament. i would simply point out that on this issue, as on the other main issues on the political agenda of the union, and above all immigration, the much-vaunted rhetoric of the union, of fraternity and solidarity is once again yielding to the cynical, but much more realistic, selfishness of the member states.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too must express my appreciation for the work of mr omarjee and i want to stress with him in this report that, for the outermost regions as well as for regions in difficulty, the principle of solidarity must not be a mere declaration of intent but must be important both in the design and implementation of european policies. we talk a lot in the report about environmental sustainability and blue growth, but i have to point out here two major dangers that our seas are unfortunately facing. the first is marine litter, which is a truly global emergency. according to a study by the european commission itself, these, in addition to causing serious environmental damage to coastal communities, economies, tourism, shipping, fisheries and biodiversity, cost european taxpayers at least €630 million. i must warn you of another impending danger: the extraction of oil and gas, the exploration for minerals in deep-water deposits. these have a serious impact on sensitive marine areas and irreversibly damage vulnerable marine species and ecosystems. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not tackle these issues and if we do not stop the multinationals, the powerful powers, which are aggravating environmental problems and will destroy our economies with ttip, with ceta, even a coherent and uniform implementation of article 349 will not be able to contribute to a truly harmonious and balanced development of the outermost regions, which have an incredible natural heritage to be protected and enhanced.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, statistics show that in the european union the number of victims of disasters is decreasing, while the material damage is increasing substantially. but these statistics are not enough when we look at what happened in portugal: what happened in portugal tells us that we must do more and that we must do better. the commission's report, which has highlighted both progress and gaps, tells us that we must work to fill these gaps. you are right, commissioner, when you say that europe means solidarity. europe means solidarity, and we must work for it. we have just included prevention as a new chapter in the new european civil protection mechanism, but we must work more on prevention, we must work on culture, because citizens often do not know how to react to disasters. we need to create a culture of prevention, of self-protection, starting in schools, even in the small things: in california, for example, people have a sign on their door that has instructions on how to deal with a disaster, a dangerous event, whatever. parliament was decisive in the last legislature. we will continue to stand by you to do everything possible to build the europe that people want.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the marrakesh treaty is certainly an important step forward for all those who are visually impaired. this is not just a treaty, this is the implementation of the fundamental rights for disabled people that they have been waiting for since 2013. the directive and regulation we are about to vote on are certainly a fundamental step towards the ratification of the treaty by the european union. it is a matter of ratification, which i hope will now take place as soon as possible and without further delay. we have a duty, especially those of us in the committee on culture and education, to make up for the lack of accessible texts. of course, in my view, the compensation scheme for copyright holders could have been avoided, because this damage from the publication of accessible texts is all that needs to be demonstrated. and in that regard, we have an additional task: the commission's task is to verify at national level that these compensation schemes are not applied solely for the protection of economic profit and to the detriment of the rights of individuals. i would like to stress that protection takes precedence over economic profit and must not be merely spoken of in words, as is unfortunately often the case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that with these two measures cultural rights, which are an integral part of human rights, will formally become part of the acquis communautaire in a broader sense, now that europe, the european union as such, which signed the marrakesh treaty in 2013, has finally adopted it after a few years. it was a great victory for the associations, but also for a parliament which was really committed alongside the commission to getting this step forward. i think it's also important that not only the blind, but also people with disabilities like dyslexia or reading and learning disabilities, are included in this access. but we also know that for exceptions to copyright to be fully effective, there must be a relationship of cooperation and trust between the organisations authorised to make accessible format copies of literary works and the publishers, so that they are authorised and recognised by the member state of establishment. we have therefore created the conditions for this to become a reality and not just a wish.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, people who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise have difficulty reading continue to face serious problems in accessing books and other copyrighted material. these people must be recognized as having the same right as everyone else to access information and to participate in cultural, economic and social life. it is important that europe works to increase the availability of translated works in accessible formats for the blind, starting first with improving the circulation of those available in the internal market. some progress has already been made with the marrakesh treaty, but much remains to be done, especially by making intelligent use of new technologies, which can be decisive for access to education and social inclusion for these people. the social inclusion of the blind is an integral part of the un convention, but it is also a moral and civil obligation of our society, which we cannot evade. the european union and the member states must move swiftly to recognise these rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, there is no doubt that today is a big day. it is an enormous step and this discussion demonstrates that parliament shares the commission’s view that the active inclusion and full participation of people with disabilities in society is not only worth pursuing but is imperative. the proposals we are discussing today are indeed one piece of the broader action that the european union is taking in this area, including the recent web accessibility directive, the commission’s proposal for a european accessibility act, as mentioned by some honourable members, and its broader european disability strategy. with regard to speeding up the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, we agree that the eu should proceed rapidly to ratification. the commission proposed a decision of the council to that effect more than one-and-a-half years ago. we encourage the council to adopt a decision as soon as possible. a recent court of justice opinion has removed any doubt about the exclusive competence of the union to ratify it, so there is therefore no good reason for further delaying the ratification of the treaty. i would like to answer some questions and make some remarks about member state compensation schemes. the commission is ready to support member states in the transposition of this legislation into their national law. as with all new legislation, the commission will also monitor its correct transposition in its application to make sure that its overall implementation is faithful to the principles contained in the directive. this also applies to the provision that allows member states to have compensation schemes, as politically agreed during the negotiation of this directive, and to the clear limits to those schemes set out in the directive itself. in summary, i am glad to witness that the common objective of parliament, the council and the commission to proceed to a fast and smooth adoption of this proposal has been achieved. once again i want to thank parliament for these important results. i would like to thank the rapporteur and others for your contribution in this enormous step.
member of the commission. – mr president, i shall try to answer all these questions on behalf of my colleague commissioner vella. the european union is fully committed to the conservation of all cetaceans and is equipped with environmental legislation to pursue this objective. commercial whaling is not allowed in the member states’ waters or by ships under the jurisdiction of a member state. all whale species are protected from deliberate disturbance, capture or killing under the habitats directive. in addition, imports to and exports from the eu of cetaceans for primarily commercial purpose are banned under our wildlife regulations. the european union has consistently supported in the international whaling commission (iwc) the global moratorium on commercial whaling. it has also clearly positioned itself against trade in whale products in cites meetings. it is therefore problematic that norway, a european country, not only continues to take whales for commercial purpose but has also become the most prolific world whaler, killing more whales in the past two years than japan and iceland combined. norway’s practice of exporting whale products via eu member states’ ports also threatens the consistency of eu policies in relation to whales and other cetaceans. the eu has made its position clear to norway. firstly, at the last international whaling commission meeting in october 2016, the union invited norway to cease its whaling activities. the eu also called on norway to stop its trade in whale products – a call which it also addressed to iceland and japan – and to reconsider its reservations on the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) listing of large whales. in november 2016, my colleague commissioner vella discussed this issue with the norwegian minister for environment, vidar helgesen, who confirmed the norwegian position, referring to the fact that ‘only’ 17 norwegian vessels catch minke whales. still, these 17 vessels killed 1 251 minke whales during 2015 and 2016! in december 2016, the council adopted new and stronger conclusions on eu relations with the non-eu western european countries, calling on norway and iceland to respect the internationally agreed moratorium on commercial whaling and to withdraw reservations under cites. given its reservation on the cites listing of large whales, norway can, however, trade whale products with other countries which have the same reservations, provided that such products have valid cites export permits. the transit of such shipments via eu member states is also legal under international law, provided that the authorities in the member states can check that the shipments are accompanied by valid cites permits. i need to say that the eu member state authorities are fully aware of their obligations to control shipments transiting through their ports. the commission has discussed this transit issue with them on several occasions. we do not have statistics on the extent of this transit but, at the same time, we are not aware of shipments of whale meat which would have gone through eu territory without the required documentation. the commission will continue to take a strong position on this subject and to work with its international partners to engage with norway towards reaching decisions more consistent with the eu approach and leading to better conservation of whales worldwide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago we were in this house calling for an end to the whaling by japan. today we are here again for the same reason, but for a different country. norway has systematically hunted whales for commercial purposes since the 1930s and, despite the international moratorium that came into force in 1987 - i would say as far back as 1987 - has never stopped killing and trading these cetaceans, on the basis of alleged scientific purposes. i say "presumed" because, as i said about japan, this "scientific evidence" often ends up on supermarket shelves or on restaurant plates. in fact, the business has grown so much in recent years that the norwegians hunted more whales in 2014 and 2015 than japan and iceland combined, earning them the unfortunate title of world leader in this odious practice. a fact: norway's quota for humpback whales has increased from 880 in 2016 to 999 this year. today we are complicit in the norwegian massacre, because at present eu legislation allows the transit of whale meat if it is accompanied by cites documentation. for example, from january to october 2016, some three tonnes passed through union ports, without thinking about all the meat traded by other routes. we therefore call on the commission to act decisively and resolutely, and to ensure that the close natural relationship between norway and the european union does not become a shield behind which to hide, but rather is exploited as a direct channel to influence norwegian decisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have spoken of whaling in this house. i remember at least three or four discussions in the last two years, although usually the defendant on the bench was japan and not norway. we end each session with two considerations: the first is that the whole house condemns this practice, which no longer has any reason to exist, which is a practice of the past and which is in human nature, and the second point that always emerges is the frustration at having no chance, in concrete terms, of doing something to stop this kind of whaling, by both japan and norway. this time, in these days, we have the chance to do something a little more concrete, finally, from two points of view. the first is this whale meat passage in european ports: it is not enough for the commission to say that they have all the documents in place, we can actually do something to try and stop it. and the second thing: we are currently negotiating the trade agreement with japan. why not also remember within that treaty that we don't want japan to continue to hunt whales?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the arctic seas are already the most at risk and the most affected by the effects of climate change. unfortunately, there are those who see only great profit opportunities in the melting of the arctic ice: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the common fisheries policy. this is an alarming scenario. it is an alarming scenario in which we must do our utmost to prevent the harmful and unnecessary whaling from adding to global degradation. norway has increased its hunting in recent years, including for commercial purposes. we must do everything, use all the pressure we have, to ensure that norway respects the 1986 moratorium and that the ports of the european union carry out the appropriate checks and are not complicit in this illegal traffic and this absurd practice that is still taking place in 2017.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the fifth resolution on burundi that we have written since the beginning of this parliament. it is with great sadness that i note that two years after we condemned the violence in the country and nkurunziza's decision to stand for re-election in violation of the country's constitution and the arusha agreements, the situation has only worsened, if not escalated. government security forces, authorities and militias continue to violate the most basic human rights. the imbonerakure, the fearsome youth militia, goes further, publicly inciting to rape the wives of political opponents, recruiting and plagiarizing young students, while the country sinks into a devastating economic and social crisis. we therefore call on the high representative to extend the european sanctions, to use all the instruments at his disposal to try to defuse a dangerous escalation, and in particular the further ethnicisation of the crisis, the prelude to a point of no return for the population. as nobel peace prize winner eliezer wiesel said, "never again" must be more than a slogan, it must be a prayer, a promise, an oath, an appeal to all of us in this house and to the entire international community not to tolerate the atrocities of the past being repeated again.
madam president, while burundi is going through one of its worst security crises, the country's primary and secondary authorities are still trying to deny the evidence, as was the case in malta, at the acp-eu joint assembly. yet politically, socially and culturally, burundi went off the rails in 2015 when pierre nkurunziza decided to run for an unconstitutional third term, killing and forced exile followed. we demand concrete commitments from burundi, in this case on democracy and human rights. we are prepared to take even tougher measures against burundian officials in these areas. naturally, the european union must remain open to dialogue with the burundian government if it respects the principles we have insisted on for the good of the people. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide monitoring mission to monitor the situation in the region. in the face of totalitarianism, we must remain uncompromising.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report makes some progress towards a new sustainable development for europe, and that is why i voted in favour. however, i must point out that it could have been more ambitious and called for more binding targets, starting with energy saving and individual self-production, and ending with the massive remediation that must accompany the conversion of industrial sites. the reduction of greenhouse gases is rightly given a lot of weight in the context of climate change, but the same level of alert is not given, for example, to many other pollutants that plague air, water and soil. efforts are emerging to implement the circular economy, recovery, reuse and recycling, but we had to table amendments not passed to exclude waste incineration from this plant. there is an attempt to increase the role of renewable energy in the energy mix, but the use of the efsi, which is widely used to support fossil fuels, is accepted. gentlemen, this proposal is an attempt to make a leap forward, but to do so we would have had to make a good run.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 6 july 2017.
ladies and gentlemen, at the opening of this new session, we are obliged once again to remember the innocent victims of the murderous fury of international terrorism. on behalf of all of us, i condemn in the strongest terms these acts of inhuman violence and express our closeness and solidarity with the families of the victims of the attacks in barcelona, cambrils and turku. unfortunately, other attacks have also taken place outside the borders of the european union, and we are also close to the non-european countries which are the target of such barbarity. today, september 11th, is the 16th anniversary of the attacks on the twin towers. in recent years, many countries have been the victims of repeated attacks: yet each of them strengthens our resolve to fight terrorism together and consolidates our unity and strengthens our stubborn hope for a better world. we are proud of our life, our freedom and our democracy, which we will defend without changing our way of life. we are not going to bow our heads in the face of terrorism. but unfortunately, today we must also remember other innocent victims who lost their lives in the recent tragic natural events that have hit regions of the european union, countries of the caribbean sea and even the united states of america this summer. in memory of all these innocent victims, i invite you to join me in a moment of silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours last night the same amount of water fell in the city of livorno as has been falling for the last eight months. unfortunately, this has resulted in six fatalities, including one entire family and two are still missing. i would like, mr president - you have already done so with this minute of silence, in which you remembered all the victims, not only of terrorism but also of natural disasters - that the sign of closeness, solidarity and sympathy of the european parliament, of all european citizens, should reach the city of livorno, which is so badly hit by the material difficulties that are presently facing it, and i would like it to reach it through a renewed commitment by this parliament against climate change, in favour of new environmental policies, to ensure that these sad events, which characterized my region yesterday, but which also characterise europe and other parts of the world, are not repeated. i would like this statement of solidarity to come with a renewed commitment to fight climate change.
i agree with mr danti that the commitment of the european parliament and the european union as a whole to combating climate change is very clear, and unfortunately events in europe and beyond are forcing us to step up our efforts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what you said, mr president. you spoke of the tragedies of the last few hours and recalled the tragic terrorist attack on the twin towers. i would like to remind you that 44 years ago, on 11 september, a great democratic and socialist leader was killed in the bombing of the casa rosada in santiago, chile. i'm not going to say anything. i was 14 when i heard this news on the radio. his words stayed and remain in my mind: "you can kill me, but you will never kill my ideals and my values". let the words of salvador allende be a warning, so that we can all fight together against any attack on democracy, freedom and human dignity. that is why we believe in the european union. that is why we love and support a stronger europe and stronger european integration.
thank you, mr proust. as you know, it is up to the member states to send a report and to submit a request to activate the solidarity fund. so i think the french republic will ask the european commission to intervene. we shall also be voting at this part-session on the disbursement of eur 1 200 000 000 for the earthquake in central italy. so it seems to me that, as regards the solidarity fund, there has always been a rapid response from the commission, and i believe that on this occasion too there will be a rapid reaction, which will make it possible to send a concrete message of solidarity to the french citizens, including those overseas, who have been affected by the recent cataclysms. the european parliament, as in the case of italy, will do its duty and vote, as soon as possible, on all the commission proposals concerning the disbursement of the solidarity fund, if the conditions are met, to the countries affected by the latest cataclysm.
it is difficult to intervene in decisions already taken; we shall be assessing whether the behaviour of any sakharov prize winners is contrary to the spirit of the prize. i am, however, awaiting further information from you. then you'll have an answer. i find it difficult to intervene ex post in what is happening.
as far as i'm concerned, there's no difference in belonging... we have observed a minute's silence in memory of all the victims, in all the localities of europe and outside europe, who were provoked by climatic events, in addition to terrorist ones. so, of course, there's no distinction between victim and victim. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
as chairman of the delegation for relations with mexico, you were right to recall this. but the minute of silence i dedicated to the victims included the victims of the earthquake in mexico, after having mentioned all the cataclysms that have struck the world this terrible summer.
at its meeting on 12 july the legal affairs committee examined, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the compatibility with the act of 20 september 1976 of the temporary mission entrusted by the french prime minister to mr arnaud danjean to begin the preparation of a strategic review of national defence and security and decided that the mission was compatible with the act. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has also informed me that, as a result of the election of mrs marie le pen to the french national assembly, the request for the waiver of her immunity is no longer valid. the proceeding was therefore suspended.
i merely communicated a decision of the legal affairs committee: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not excluded from the vote. if you have any objections, you can write a letter, legally justifying your dissent, which we will forward to the legal affairs committee for consideration.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the maltese presidency, which has made a great effort to get the convention signed, and to thank my fellow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. although this is an interim report, it is important that the european parliament reaffirms its firm and decisive position against violence against women. violence against women is a social scourge that is endemic, deep-rooted and knows no borders, in europe as in any other part of the world: women are subjected to daily abuse and violence, with devastating physical and psychological consequences. the statistics must be updated every hour, every minute, every second. the european union has made gender equality one of its founding principles, but women in all areas often have to do much more than men to protect their rights, and are also heavily discriminated against in their participation in economic, social, political and cultural life, and underrepresented in the various decision-making processes. if violence is added to these unfavourable conditions, the principle of equality loses all meaning. ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons which have guided my work during the eight years that i have been a member of the european parliament: i have participated in countless initiatives to call for the european union to join the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the convention, through its comprehensive legal framework to prevent, prosecute and eliminate violence, will send a strong political message about the union's commitment to combating this phenomenon. but since the european union cannot claim the primacy of its own law in this field, the repression of these discriminatory and violent phenomena, based precisely on gender, has so far been the responsibility of the various internal laws, with inevitable repercussions in terms of differences, not only in the response to sanctions against those who are guilty of these crimes, but also in comparison with support for women themselves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european union officially accedes to the istanbul convention, albeit in the areas of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and asylum and return applications. the convention, despite some ambiguities and controversies that have yet to be defined, is certainly a useful instrument to stop the great river of violence that daily affects european women. however, the fact that it has only partially acceded and has not yet been ratified by many member states does not allow an assessment to be made of the effectiveness of the measures provided for in the treaty. the union is thus becoming aware of the serious problem affecting women. but this must not be the end of the road, but the beginning of a new and flourishing season of non-theoretical actions to combat violence against women in practice. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. in this connection, i would like to mention the judgment of the european court of human rights last march, in which italy, one of the first member states to sign and ratify the convention, was declared to be in breach of its obligation to protect a victim of domestic violence and therefore ordered to pay compensation. i am saying that the mere act of ratification cannot of course stop the violence. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. justice must be more friendly to women and therefore must be swift and certain. the economic resources of all the structures responsible for assisting and helping women must also be implemented, especially in the smaller centres, where it is even more difficult to report violence suffered, especially if it is domestic. my wish is to lay the foundations for a future in which my daughter and our daughters can walk the streets of europe without fear of being victims of violence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, violence against women is unfortunately continuing. the numbers are pitiless: one third of european women have been subjected to physical violence, and not only physical violence, at least once in their lives. in this context, the istanbul convention offers legal instruments which are useful not only for prosecuting perpetrators of crimes but also for preventing violence against women, and the union's accession to the convention is a strong and united signal to the many, many women who are victims of violence. i hope therefore that all the member states will want to give effective effect to the convention, as my country, italy, has done, for example, where guidelines were adopted a few days ago providing for preventive educational tools, programmes for the protection and support of victims and closer cooperation between the ministry of justice and the courts to punish the guilty. in all european countries, there must be an integrated policy against all forms of violence against women, a phenomenon which cannot be ignored.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 74% of european citizens think that gender-based violence is a common phenomenon in their country. in the european union, about 25% of women have experienced physical or sexual violence. more than one in four europeans believe that nonconsensual sex is justifiable. the situation is therefore very serious. however, today there are different national policies to combat violence against women, there are individual legal instruments and, after the ratification of the istanbul convention, we have a fundamental instrument to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women, regardless of their age and all other forms of categorization. appropriate funds should be allocated to put in place the most effective systems of protection against violence for women, especially girls. now more than ever, we need to be concrete. the principles of the convention must therefore be transposed into national legislation without delay and the financial means must be found to give effect to them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the overall reduction of national greenhouse gas emissions is a fundamental objective of european union policy. in this sense, the ets is an essential tool for a cost-effective reduction of these emissions. the regulation needs to be adopted swiftly in view of the current uncertainties within icao regarding the adoption of a global measure to address the increase in emissions globally. we must provide legal certainty and clarity for aircraft operators while respecting the compliance obligations of the eu ets. the full realisation of the single european sky will also be important for achieving the targets set by the paris agreement and for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. this is essential to avoid airspace fragmentation and to optimise traffic flow, with consequent environmental benefits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aviation sector must make a proper and effective contribution to the achievement of the climate objectives of the paris agreement. air transport is currently responsible for 4.5% of emissions within the eu, and emissions will continue to rise if no action is taken. the corsia system proposed by icao, although voluntary in nature, has many limitations and unknown aspects. we need more transparency: the commission's proposal is therefore a good one, and mrs girling's proposal sets out precise dates and procedures for regularly informing parliament. the commission is asked to propose measures to address the climate effects of aviation due to nitrogen oxides and condensation trails, as well as co2, which is essential. the commission is also asked to encourage research into the use of photovoltaic energy in aviation and fuels... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aviation is responsible for 4.5% of the co2 emissions produced in the european union. the global measure proposed by icao is a first starting point for 191 countries but many aspects of it remain unknown. i therefore do not think it appropriate to extend the exemption for flights to and from europe further with a view to adopting a comprehensive package of measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the compensation is not excessive. the auctioned emissions share should be increased to at least 50%, as at present aviation receives 85% of its emissions free of charge, despite the impact assessment acknowledging that the sector does not present any risk of carbon leakage. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy and its implementation in the member states.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 20 years ago the first ipcc report on the consequences of global warming painted the picture we see today: the european union is facing increasingly extreme and destructive weather events. we keep saying that we want to limit the temperature rise to 2 degrees celsius, possibly 1.5 degrees celsius, as agreed in paris, and this is a laudable and necessary attempt, but it is becoming less credible every day. the uncertainty is total, not only because the commitments, political agreements and reduction targets are inadequate, but also because there may be additional risk elements that have been ignored until now: for example, melting permafrost would release previously trapped gases, the extent of which no one can quantify. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. a recent paper published in nature describes a process of accelerating the release of co2 from the soil, as a result of the increased activity of microorganisms, stimulated precisely by the increase in average temperatures. researchers estimate that by 2050, at least 55 billion tons of co2 could be released from the ground that are not predicted by emission scenarios. in this house, i have heard hundreds of voices of concern about climate change from all political groups: but when it comes to translating proclamations into legislative action, i still have too many, too many groups, too many colleagues who continue to defend the status quo, to postpone, to dilute commitments, to introduce flexibility and loopholes. the text which has come to this house is already a compromise to the downside of what scientific evidence and common sense would require. for the five star movement, this is a text that is acceptable, but it must not be weakened by dangerous amendments, such as the one proposed by the ppe group, which increases flexibility for managed forests, allowing in fact an increase in cutting activities. i call on everyone to ensure that the measures we are voting on in this house are consistent with the political commitments we are making. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. maybe i didn't explain myself very well or maybe we didn't understand each other: the scientific evidence is about what climate change is currently doing and the urgency that the scientific data suggests to us about the policy action that needs to be taken: and the political action that needs to be taken, alas, is always too weak. this is the crucial point which i believe we must be able to solve, and i therefore call on everyone once again to increase the ambition of the political action we are taking.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are only a few weeks away from cop 23 in bonn, and i believe that the lulucf proposal we are discussing this evening can be an important step forward in the fight against climate change. the objective of the proposal can only be achieved if the accounting is rigorous and credible at the level of the european union for the period 2021-2030 and if the objective of non-debt and possible receivables is achieved in a comparable and rigorous manner. our long-term climate targets are based on net removals in the lulucf sector but this must not lead to a reduction in the level of ambition in other sectors. a distinction should also be made between green co2 emissions from the lulucf sector and emissions from fossil fuel combustion. and to that end, consistency between the various policies of the european union is essential. the flexibility proposed by the lulucf regulation is a useful tool to value, reward and incentivise forestry and agriculture for their climate-smart actions, but we must not let our guard down and we must be ambitious
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative report proposes to set up a framework for the accounting for greenhouse gas emissions and removals in the land use and forestry sector. it is one of the three pillars of the european union's 2030 framework for climate and energy action. it is a cornerstone of the european union's action plan to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement. in the negotiations in parliament, i campaigned for the recognition of active and sustainable forest management, allowing timber industry players to exploit the full potential of forest resources, while ensuring the growth of our forests' carbon sinks. i believe that this proposal respects national competence in this area and allows member states to implement ambitious policies adapted to local resources. for these reasons, i call on you to support this report. thank you .
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr giegold, and the rapporteurs of the five committees who have given an opinion on this file for this important and wide-ranging report. the juncker commission has committed to lead by example when it comes to transparency. at the very beginning of our mandate, the college committed to high transparency standards. this lies at the heart of the democratic change priority in the political guidelines for this commission. being transparent about the way european institutions work, including how they interact with interest representatives, is essential to ensuring public trust. the report recognises that the commission is a very transparent public administration. let me give you four examples of recent improvements. firstly, as far as transparency of interest representation is concerned, since december 2014, commissioners, members of their cabinet and directors—general have been publishing information on their websites on the meetings they have with lobbyists. information on more than 14 000 meetings has been published to date. the rule ‘not on the transparency register, no meeting’ applies as well. these were simple but major and unprecedented steps forward, which illustrate the high standards that we apply. secondly, we have made registration in the transparency register a requirement in order for stakeholder organisations and individual experts representing a common interest to be appointed as members of expert groups advising the commission. thirdly, we have boosted transparency in trade negotiations. this is essential to ensure the legitimacy of european union trade policy and public trust, as the report rightly recognises. fourthly, the commission’s better regulation policy also contains a series of important new transparency features with open public consultations and other opportunities for feedback at each stage of the policy cycle. for the first time, the public can provide feedback on draft delegated and implementing acts. so the commission has led by example in terms of transparency, and we believe it is now time for other institutions to make a similar effort so that we can together strengthen the transparency of european union law—making, which is a shared responsibility of the parliament, council and commission. this is why the commission has presented a proposal for a mandatory european union transparency register, in the form of a draft interinstitutional agreement covering the parliament, the commission and, for the first time, the council. we welcome the adoption of parliament’s negotiating mandate in june. a first tripartite political meeting took place on 6 september 2017, and we look forward to the start of the formal negotiations. the objective is to have the highest standards in place in the three institutions for their interactions with interest representatives. the commission is of the view that meetings of interest representatives – including meetings with meps – should be made conditional on these interest representatives being in the transparency register. if all three institutions adopt the ‘not registered, no meeting’ approach, which the commission already applies, registration will become a precondition for exercising lobbying activities vis-à-vis eu institutions. this is why an interinstitutional agreement is the most pragmatic and efficient way to achieving a mandatory register. it would be a major step forward towards the transparency that citizens rightly expect. i would also like to share some first observations about other key points raised in the report. regarding ethics, the commission’s code of good administrative behaviour for staff in their relations with the public reflects the values of service, independence, responsibility, accountability, efficiency and transparency, to which the commission as an institution is committed. the commission strongly supports the objective of protecting whistleblowers, underlined by the european parliament. the results of the recent public consultation and a study will enable the commission to take an informed decision on the need for further horizontal or sectorial action at eu level. as far as the work of agencies in providing scientific advice for policymaking is concerned, the commission supports their approach to effectively preventing conflicts of interest, while maintaining their ability to access the best available expertise. finally, i would like to reassure you that the commission will examine carefully all the proposals for legislative and non-legislative initiatives put forward by parliament in this report and will express its opinion in the formal follow-up procedure following the adoption of the report. we look forward to continued good cooperation between our institutions, so that, together, we can reinforce further the transparency and integrity framework of the european institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are going to adopt tomorrow contributes to the development of a space strategy for europe, a strategic and vital area, although it is often ignored by public opinion. in reality, the space sector is not a cost to citizens but an investment: space programmes and related services are key resources for many economic sectors such as energy, environment, defence, health, agriculture, transport, digital market, mobile communications and many more. in order to respond to current and future challenges, the next multiannual financial framework should include an adequate allocation for the space sector. it is essential to ensure the continuity of the programmes and to reflect on the future evolution of galileo and copernicus, in particular with a view to creating a favourable investment climate in the sector. however, particular attention should be paid to the vulnerability of space infrastructures to interference or attack. it is important to ensure the security of critical infrastructure and means of communication, and to develop resilient technologies.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank ms krehl for her excellent report and support. last october the commission adopted the space strategy for europe. it is the first comprehensive strategy in this sector at european level. we sent a clear signal: space is a priority for the commission, and the strategy represents a clear ambition to make europe a leading actor in space. we are therefore glad that the report to be adopted supports this level of ambition and goes even further in some respects. the report fully endorses the vision of the commission and puts on the table several very concrete and constructive suggestions in relation to the four priority objectives of the strategy: maximising the benefits of space for society and the economy, and the creation of a european market for space-based applications; fostering a competitive and innovative european space sector and a new space approach in europe; ensuring europe’s autonomous and secure access to space; and strengthening europe as a global actor. the implementation of the strategy has already started and is already delivering benefits. all our space programmes are operational. the latest copernicus sentinel 2b satellite was successfully launched and the data is already being used, for instance, to direct rescue teams during the recent earthquakes in italy or the follow-up to hurricane harvey in texas. galileo’s initial services went live last december. the market uptake is the key to success. leading chipset companies are producing galileo-compatible products and, at present, already 13 models of smartphones can work with galileo signals. egnos has also demonstrated its added value: today, 424 procedures for aircraft approach and landing have been developed at 288 european airports, allowing passengers to easily access regional airports. the european union space surveillance and tracking, or sst, support framework started in july 2016 to monitor debris in space to protect european critical space and ground infrastructure, paving the way towards less dependence in this domain. this is a good start, but we cannot stop there. this year, and the next two, will be crucial. we are committed to implement the actions announced in the space strategy, and our intention is to use the same inclusive process as the one we used for the preparation of the strategy. our priorities are clear. first, on the market uptake, several actions have started to foster space-based applications in relation to copernicus and galileo. second, we need to boost space start-ups, for instance through discussions with the european investment bank. the commission is ready to look at different options to increase the efficiency of space research spending, including by exploring the options of possible public-private partnerships. third, we need to prepare the continued evolution of copernicus and galileo. this starts by an evaluation of what has been done so far. fourth, the synergies between the security and the defence dimension need to be reinforced, for instance through the link with the european defence fund. the work on the govsatcom initiative and on the reinforcement of the sst will take this dimension into account. fifth, the autonomous access to space needs to be guaranteed, and we are working on a smart strategy for launchers. finally, we do not forget the governance aspects and the need to cooperate closely between all european actors, in particular with the european space agency. we take this very seriously. these priorities will be likely reflected in legislative proposals in the coming years. but the future will also depend on the budgetary aspects. adequate financing and resources are necessary to meet the current and future challenges. as the report rightly outlines, space applications serve many european policies and actions: space is not a cost but an investment. let us work together to ensure that europe benefits from a true return on this investment. let us work together towards achieving a strong europe in space – a domain where no single european actor can succeed alone. europe is at its best when it is ambitious.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the union's trade policy, particularly on the international front, has recently become one of the major concerns of public opinion. treaties such as ceta are not the right way to set trade policy. the protests and reactions that have taken place across europe demonstrate first of all that smes are at the heart of the global value chain: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. the european union, in setting its political and trade agenda, must remain faithful to certain essential principles, responding effectively to social and environmental dumping, combating unfair trade practices and ensuring the dignity and rights of workers, but at the same time must remember to protect its specificities and its excellence. you can't keep selling them off as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank the european parliament, the committee on international trade (inta) and the rapporteur, ms maria arena, for the attention, work and time that they have invested in this report. the commission shares with the european parliament concerns and goals regarding sustainable development and the 2030 agenda, both of which are central to many european union policies, including the trade and investment policy. the european union policy on corporate social responsibility and responsible business conduct is implemented through initiatives by businesses and by their stakeholders, complemented where necessary by adequate regulatory measures. i would like to recall that corporate social responsibility is mostly a voluntary process, and enterprises are responsible for the impact they have on society. let me just briefly recall some of the many actions we take in the area of global value chains. as regards european union trade and investment policy, recent european union trade agreements contain rules of origin that support the integration of the industry in the global value chains. in all trade negotiations, the commission is promoting provisions on public procurement and intellectual property rights. in this context, we aim at developing solid procurement tools against corruptive practices and promoting sustainable procurement. these agreements also contain provisions on corporate social responsibility and responsible business conduct, together with binding commitments on core labour standards and international environmental conventions which are subject to dispute settlement. we also work with the oecd in developing due diligence guidelines and on their implementation. under the unilateral generalised scheme of preferences, corporate social responsibility is indirectly addressed via the requirements and dialogues on labour standards and environmental conventions. and as regards the gender dimension, the commission is developing further its trade-related policies. following the gender forum hosted by the commission earlier this year, more will be done on promoting gender equality and integration into bilateral and multilateral instruments, such as the trade negotiations with chile or the wto ministerial conference in december 2017. also, as regards other policies, the commission takes numerous actions linked to global value chains: there are capacity—building and outreach programmes which help developing countries to promote reforms for effective enforcement of social, environmental and labour standards. support is given to european union small and micro enterprises, taking on board the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. the commission cooperates closely with the international labour organization on decent working conditions in global supply chains, but also on occupational safety and health, social dialogue, child labour and forced labour in supply chains. with regard to jurisdiction rules, work is done within the hague conference on private international law, and we are negotiating a worldwide convention on recognition and enforcement of judgments by indirect jurisdiction rules with third states. the european union also has legislation in place for corporate social responsibility and responsible business conduct. let me give you just two examples. the 2014 non-financial disclosure directive for large european union companies requires companies with more than 500 employees to disclose information on policies, results and risks concerning environmental aspects, social and labour-related matters, respect for human rights, anti—corruption and bribery issues. and the 2015 anti-money laundering directive puts in place rules that reinforce the vigilance by banks, lawyers, accountants and other professionals as regards, among other things, the identification of beneficial owners of companies and trusts. we are addressing all these sustainable development issues – and many more – on a regular basis, and the commission will continue to work closely with the european parliament on them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, education systems are facing significant challenges as a result of the digital transformation, and continuing and distance learning make a significant contribution to education. such training must become an integral part of the european strategy for lifelong learning; in fact, it is a possible approach in the context of continuing academic training, which can help to ensure a balance between study, professional and private life. according to recent estimates, only a quarter of pupils in europe have teachers who are adequately familiar with digital tools. it is clear that any strategy in this area must first of all address this digital divide. the quality of teaching should not be overlooked either: the need to ensure high standards in distance learning and the importance of developing new models of teaching and learning must be considered as part of the process of innovation and the gradual digitalisation of education.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have brought to the house an exceptional product this evening: the tomato paste. this is a product that comes from southern italy, but the same could be said for greece, for spain, for all those countries that have so much sun. it is a healthy product and a key ingredient in foods such as pasta, pizza and lasagna, and is therefore a real asset to our territories and to our local production: we don't call it "red gold". we are still wondering how it is possible that the european union is unable to prevent, to block imports of chinese concentrate, which is a poor and low-quality product, which unfairly competes with our products and, above all, which is harmful because it is full of pesticides. we wonder how it is possible that there is no clear and precise label to distinguish between the italian tomato and the chinese xinjiang, so that citizens can freely and consciously choose what to eat.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is incredible that it should be the members of parliament who are defending the products and the dignity of the european citizens and their culture. in the united states, animated by the worst historical revisionism, a shameful campaign is under way against two very important figures of our tradition, very dear to italians, europeans and especially italian-americans. the first one was aimed at, think about it, nothing less than the figure of christopher columbus: it is called for the removal of all references to this character, the removal of statues, etc. the second concerns another important character, a hero of the italian air force, the great aviator, italio balbo, who is another important historical figure. i ask that, in the face of the grave silence of the high representative, who never defends europeans, european values and the dignity of european citizens, even when threatened and insulted as in this case, the european parliament should take action, and i urge the president to make his voice heard in defence of christopher columbus and italo balbo.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for the last 48 hours italy has been hit by violent hailstorms which have caused enormous damage and unfortunately caused casualties, as in livorno. the adverse weather wave also hit the southern regions last night, particularly campania, with the provinces of naples, caserta and salerno. never before has italy been hit by such devastating storms as in recent years, when climate change is showing its effects. the difficult situation of hydrogeological disruption must be tackled urgently and the absolute need for investment in prevention and safety is clear. we need public intervention and we need european help if we do not want these emergencies to continue to recur in a cyclical fashion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to congratulate the commissioner on her first appearance in this house, although our committee is already working very hard with her. the initiative we are discussing today is a very timely and excellent initiative, and i think that it has also been greatly complemented, compared with the initial proposal, by the valuable work of mr zorrinho. it is an initiative of which i would just like to emphasize two aspects, as other colleagues have done. the first is that europe is affirming that the internet must be democratic in some way, that is, it must be potentially accessible to everyone: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i consider this aspect, which is symbolic as well as concrete, to be very important and i also consider it to be important and i recommend to the commissioner and to those who will follow this initiative in practice that the image of europe is not lost: europe does many things, but when citizens come to the municipalities, europe disappears. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so let the logo remain, let the image remain, let europe's desire to be close to its citizens remain.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the internet and digital connectivity are now having a decisive impact on our private and professional lives. access to free local wireless connectivity in busy locations can provide considerable added value and transform downtime and transit time into productive, relaxing and informative moments. the regulation we are going to adopt today provides for a simple financing mechanism for the installation of local wireless access points, and it is aimed at bodies with public service responsibilities. given the limited funding available for each project and the high number of potential applications, an administrative system ensuring quick and effective decisions is necessary. the principle of geographical balance between the different member states and within the member states will have to be guaranteed as regards access to the resources of the initiative. in order to ensure the targeted nature of the intervention and to maximise the public benefit, funding should be limited to cases where no free public or private access point providing broadband connectivity is available.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation we are adopting is certainly a step forward, a new step in the european union's approach to energy. i would like to thank president buzek informally for the great work he has done, but also because, as he himself said in the introduction, citing the reality of some countries, he has been able to combine clarity of objectives with flexibility. so i think it was a good job, which led to a result of consultation of all parties. we know what this plan is, so i just want to make a brief reference, speaking to the commissioner and to my colleagues. we all know that the common energy policy was born precisely in the face of a supply risk: the crisis in the early 2000s, ukraine and russia, coincidentally, already then... and so europe found itself discovered, it understood that addiction was a risk and that addiction without solidarity was a double deadly risk. and this is where the need arose not only to deal with the question of supply but also to create, even before the legal basis of lisbon, a union, a common energy policy. so i hope that this push is just one step towards really moving towards an energy union. i am thinking of the work of notre europe, of the many visionary figures, of what delors has done, and so on. we are moving forward, commissioner, because we are working well towards a real energy union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security in gas supply is a strategic priority for the european union, aimed at reducing the cyclical disruptions of natural gas supplies and their impact on the economies of the member states. excessive dependence on a limited number of sources of supply, the bilateral nature of agreements, the lack of coordination of national policies and the complexity of geopolitical dynamics have historically been the most complex elements in the construction of an internal energy market. regulation (eu) no 994/2010 was already an important step towards greater integration and security of gas supply, but it maintained a predominantly national approach. i consider the proposal a significant development in the european regulatory framework for energy security, in line with the need for diversification of sources and the objectives of transparency, solidarity and trust between member states. finally, the behavioural approach of both companies and individuals to european policies to reduce dependence on fossil fuels in favour of alternative and renewable energy sources, especially in the context of environmental sustainability, should not be underestimated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have brought to the house these two eggs, which are practically identical: only one is contaminated with fipronil and the other is uncontaminated. so how could a normal citizen distinguish between these two eggs, to know which to choose? who was supposed to be doing the checks, mr. president? and why does the commission not carry out independent checks? why have the dutch and belgian early warning systems not been quick enough to allow this? so we say that fraud is here and will always be here: but if the european union's early warning and control systems are like this - that is, basically like a water pipe that is leaking everywhere - then we have to figure out what the solution is: the solution for us is that these substances, which are toxic to health, should not even be allowed on the territory of the european union. there's no other way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fipronil contamination shows the vulnerability of our food production. the scandal quickly spread, affecting 24 of the 28 states. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. it is essential to harmonize the rapid alert system for food and feed and the bilateral cooperation system on fraud, which belgium used in the first days of june to request information from the netherlands. the time limits for the notification of alerts in the european system and the subsequent initiation of withdrawal and recall procedures, the animal and egg management procedures in the farms affected by the contamination and the concentration factors to be applied for the conformity assessment of egg products should be clearly specified. in short, more transparency and more speed, but also more europe to protect our consumers.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is customary for the newly elected president to make a speech before the house when he takes office. when i was elected in january, i thought it would be good to wait a little while before sharing my vision with you. it'll be a short speech. it has enabled me to appreciate more fully the weight of the responsibility which lies with me as president, but also with us as an institution and as members of parliament. we have less than two years before the election and we have big challenges ahead of us: terrorism, illegal immigration, jobs, climate change and brexit. our fellow citizens are asking us to meet their expectations. they are addressing us because, at european level, we are their only direct interlocutors. in march i had the honour of signing the rome declaration on behalf of parliament. our commitment is to ensure that the objectives set by governments and the european institutions are not simply statements of principle but are translated into concrete responses for our citizens. we have adopted, in record time, important and complex issues such as the efsi, the european fund for sustainable development (efsd), the data protection package and the european border and coast guard. we have already done a lot since the beginning of the year. we have stabilised financial markets, strengthened european venture capital funds and european social entrepreneurship funds, endorsed ceta with different positions and abolished roaming charges. we shall be voting in a few minutes on measures to guarantee the security of gas supply. there's still a lot to do. we want results in the context of the digital single market. we must modernise our trade policy to protect our strategic industries. we must strengthen the social dimension of the european union. we need to agree on the reform of the emissions trading system and ensure that the clean energy transition becomes a reality. the new commission on terrorism will shortly be looking at how to improve the fight against this scourge. we must work on the 'defence' package and further strengthen industrial policy. the most complex task ahead of us is the asylum package. we know that the delay is caused by the council. however, this does not relieve us of our duty to do our best to conclude this package before the end of the mandate. tomorrow we will have the opportunity to discuss all this with the president of the commission at the state of the union debate. ladies and gentlemen, we are an extremely complex legislative machine, and yet i must say that it works rather well. i am glad that we can rely on a competent, professional and dedicated administration to do this. i shall endeavour to preserve the harmony and good cooperation between the various organs of the house, because our efficiency and capacity to act ultimately depend on this. our performance also depends on our working conditions. that is why i pay particular attention to the latter. however, ladies and gentlemen, we do not adopt legislation simply to be able to say that we have done something in this or that area. we have an obligation to make the right decisions and to make the right choices, because the legislation we adopt will affect the lives of 500 million citizens for decades to come. the legislator must be able to discuss in depth all aspects of the legislation under consideration and must take the time to listen to our fellow citizens first and foremost, but also to our conscience. of course, we must also avoid unnecessary delays and unnecessary delays. i will ensure that the 'delay' in legislative procedures is kept to a minimum. parliament must help to pass quality legislation that aims to solve the problems of our fellow citizens and not create new ones.but citizens also expect us to defend our values and principles in europe and the world: freedom, solidarity, subsidiarity, human rights and the rule of law, equality between women and men and the social market economy. i am convinced that the political forces represented here are motivated by a sincere desire to contribute to improving the situation of our fellow citizens. ladies and gentlemen, we are also one of the two arms of the budgetary authority. we must do this responsibly, as we have always done, but also with vision. we are about to begin discussions on the multiannual financial framework. i am convinced that the new budget must be a political budget, one which goes beyond the distributive logic and is based on clear objectives. political choices must be made first and only then the budgetary means to achieve them, not the other way around. this parliament must speak out several times on the need to establish new own resources. i am personally convinced of this need and i urge that further reflection and debate be held within our house and with the other institutions. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. in this house we have colleagues from all parts of europe, from the remotest corners of our continent and from the outermost regions. all the peoples of the european union are represented here. the parliament is the heart of europe. this parliament is the only place on the continent where directly elected representatives can openly discuss continental issues. the only place where they can face each other, get to know each other, and work together to solve common problems. the heads of state of the member states and of the world, eminent personalities, great figures of our time, have spoken in this assembly. this gives our institution a dimension which goes far beyond the role which the treaties confer on it. this dimension must be strengthened. i would like to take this opportunity to remind all the heads of state of the union that they are permanently invited to speak in plenary. ladies and gentlemen, we have in this house an invaluable wealth of political sensibilities, opinions and ideas. we all want a parliament where we can speak, but always on the basis of ideas and mutual respect. we are a living parliament and i will ensure that all the energies and ideas in this chamber can be expressed and contribute to the discussion and reflection. as i always say, i want to be the speaker of parliament, not a prime minister. parliament must once again take the lead in thinking about the future of europe and provide the political impetus that the union constantly needs. we must change europe where necessary, but we must move forward. the president of the commission - to whom i am grateful - has submitted a reflection paper on the future of our joint project. i know that all the political families have been thinking about this. the time has come to exchange our respective conclusions, for example in a large open debate in plenary. we will therefore have to continue to exchange views with the main european actors, who must be invited here. it will be an opportunity for parliament to put itself at the centre of the debate and to fulfil its proper role as a forum for political discussion. in her inaugural speech, my distinguished predecessor, simone veil, reminded us that 'democratic control is the first function of any elected assembly'. we therefore have a duty to be demanding in the exercise of this control towards the executive. the practice of 'spitzenkandidaten', which was introduced in the last european elections, further strengthens the political bond of trust between parliament and the commission. we must consolidate this development. for the union to work, the commission must have the confidence and support of the parliament. however, this trust is not automatic and must be earned every day. i am also in favour of good understanding between the institutions, mutual respect and loyal cooperation. our unity is our strength, let us never forget that. our history shows that the strengthening of the union has always been accompanied by a strengthening of parliament. i remain convinced that the fight for the right of initiative is crucial in this respect and must continue. the strengthening of the union's parliamentary dimension also requires increasingly close cooperation with national parliaments. europe will be democratic or it will not be. parliament is the living heart of democracy and gives the union democratic legitimacy. without this parliament, the union would be nothing but a congress system, supported by a cold and distant bureaucracy. parliament ensures and embodies the primacy of politics over bureaucracy. ladies and gentlemen, parliament is the real 'resonance box' of the expectations of the european citizens. we must listen to them and establish a permanent, open and transparent dialogue with them. we are the most open parliament in the world. my effort throughout my term will be to ensure that our doors are kept open to the public. each member of the european parliament is called upon to play a fundamental role as a link between citizens and the union's institutions: he is not only a representative of citizens to the union, but also a representative of the union to citizens. it is a considerable amount of work, which occupies us every moment of our day, including weekends. this is why it must be said loud and clear that meps are not just a finger on the voting machine or a hand raised in the plenary: they are the representatives of the european people and deserve to be respected and listened to. they are their voice and they must be allowed to express it. (applause) that is my vision and i will do everything in my power to ensure that the dignity of members is preserved and their role is enhanced. we should be proud of who we are. i, as president and colleague, am proud of your work, both here and outside this house. i thank you for what you do behind the scenes, in the committees, in the political groups, in the various bodies of the house and, above all, in your electoral colleges. i thank you for the energy you devote every day to meetings, discussions, negotiations, conferences, contacts, meetings with citizens and civil society. your work is not always visible, but in the end it ensures the exercise of democracy within the union.
i am proud of you. i am proud to be president of this parliament.
i am proud to be president of this parliament.
i also thank you for the confidence you have shown in me. i'll do my best to be worthy. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to argue the vote against the report on the basis of a fundamental consideration: in fact, new investments in renewable energy are being prevented and discouraged, and we do not trust this rhetoric about new standards of transparency and security, which would then be left to the commission. i wonder what the commission has done, for example, to ensure security and transparency on the trans-adriatic pipeline, which will start in azerbaijan and cross the adriatic sea; i am also concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken action on the scandal involving the family of the president of azerbaijan, and above all, i wonder what is meant by transparency when the pipeline in question is now explicitly referred to as a mafia pipeline. i do not believe that the new energy policy of the european union can be based on replacing russia with countries like qatar and azerbaijan: indeed, we would have expected a more significant shift in investment in renewables.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to ask that this house should respect certain basic and clear-cut truths: the denial, or we might say the denial of a phenomenon of such a clear, clear and global dimension as male and state violence against women, should not be denied in this house, and that is all the more reason why i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. i would stress the seriousness of the fact that 13 member states have still not ratified the istanbul convention, whereas the 2030 objective of equality and gender equality is one of the sustainable development goals. i think it is no coincidence that the movement against male and state violence against women and women is a global movement, which started in argentina, called "not one less", precisely because femicide cases are no longer newsworthy - indeed, they are not newsworthy at all - they are cultural, political, material and symbolic issues, they are questions of civilization. i would just like to say that as a feminist and as a member of the european parliament, i will be taking part in the world day for the right to sexual and reproductive self-determination on 28 september.
the court is in session. i greet the commission and the council. the agenda calls into question the presentation by the council of its position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2018 (2017/2720 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that there is no 'catch the eye' procedure for this debate and no 'blue card' questions will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is my honour today to present to this great house of democracy the council position on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2018, as adopted by the member states on 4 september this year. respecting the time allocated to discussion, i will be very concise in my remarks. first, on behalf of the council, i wish to emphasise, and be very clear about, the facts. the council is bringing forward a draft budget that, both in commitments and payments, proposes increases compared to the 2017 budget. in detail, as follows: an increase of eur 990 million – 0.6% – compared to the 2017 levels for commitment appropriations and, respectively, an increase of eur 9.9 billion, or 7.39%, for payment appropriations. second, the council attaches great relevance to the fiscal stance of the union and has therefore moved to increase the contingency margins for next year. we need the eu budget to provide flexibility as much as we need predictability. on this basis, the council and the presidency will strive to reach an outcome on next year’s budget that will take the union forward. the council seeks to emphasise the expenditure on areas which have the highest european added value and stem from the political priorities of the union: stimulating growth and jobs, strengthening security and tackling migration. i believe that these priorities are shared by parliament. at the same time, and respecting the budget process as outlined in the treaty, the council sees room for savings and re-sizing of estimates in the initial budget proposed by the commission without endangering the effective implementation and execution of eu programmes. having said this, please allow me to take a quick glimpse inside the draft budget and its guiding principles. sustaining growth and job creation remains one of the council’s most important priorities. for 2018 the council wants to support smart and inclusive growth with eur 76.5 billion in commitments and eur 66.4 billion in payments, up by 2.1% and 17.5% respectively compared to the 2017 levels. with regard to subheading 1a – competitiveness for growth and jobs – the council acknowledges the importance of this policy area, which shows implementation rates. i would also wish to highlight that the council proposal suggests growth for the main programmes in subheading 1a as compared to the available benchmark, the 2017 budget. the council decided to endorse the commission’s proposal for programmes like cosme, erasmus+ and nuclear decommissioning. we also retained financing to core areas of horizon 2020, a research and innovation programme, to the initiatives protecting union financial interests, the energy projects, to aid economic recovery, the completion of former programmes, and pilot projects and preparatory actions. the council also accepted the level of appropriations as proposed by the commission for new initiatives like wifi4eu, the european solidarity corps, as well as the european fund for strategic investments, including an amount in the reserve for its extension. in some budget lines, however, under subheading 1a, the growth rate has been adjusted downwards, mostly due to the expected realistic absorption capacity and reviewing the scope of administrative expenses. moving forward, as for subheading 1b – cohesion policy, the core instrument of the european union for creating growth and jobs – the council maintains the level of commitment appropriations as proposed by the commission while targeted adjustments are being suggested in payments appropriations. the second priority for the council is to ensure a high level of security and grant adequate financing for migration and related external policies. with this in mind, as regards heading 3, security and citizenship, the council accepts the commission proposal and continues to provide resources for the programmes and agencies related to migration. the council also supports the commission’s proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument to cover the priority needs under this heading. under heading 4, global europe, the draft budget largely based on the commission’s proposal shows a reduction of appropriations compared to 2017 due to last year’s exceptional contribution of eur 750 million from the eu budget to the facility for refugees in turkey. now allow me to address the issues of headings 2 and 5 in a few words. under heading 2, sustainable growth and natural resources, the council proposes some adjustments mainly affecting the first pillar of the common agricultural policy. the adjustments anticipate the upward revision of agricultural assigned revenues in the forthcoming autumn forecast. some additional savings were identified under the annual actions of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements based on past under—implementation. as regards heading 5, administration, the council, after a very attentive scrutiny, set the budget of the relevant institutions at what we deem to be an appropriate level, taking into account the specificities of institutions. the council carried out targeted savings and increased the standard flat-rate abatement on salaries for most institutions and offices. moreover, the council adopted a statement about the efforts made to reach the 5% staff reduction target over the period of 2013 to 2017 by union institutions and eu bodies. there is still some improvement possible in order to fully achieve the target by all institutions. the council considers that the level of staff needs to be kept under continuous monitoring to ensure that the savings achieved are consolidated. i would like to draw to a conclusion by iterating the following points. the moderation of expenditure growth in the 2018 budget, as compared to the 2017 in certain areas that the council is suggesting, have been put for your consideration after serious scrutiny by the council. the guiding underlying principles of the prioritisation were: first, limiting budget growth of some programmes in order to increase flexibility through bigger margins under the mff ceiling, and secondly, seeking savings in the administrative expenditures whilst reflecting the progress of the programmes and their past execution rate. further, no reductions were applied to the completion lines of the 2007—2013 programming period in order to maintain a successful path for phasing out the backlog of unpaid bills. no reductions were applied to the core activities of humanitarian aid. having said this, i am very conscious of the next steps in the budget process. i intend to weigh the forthcoming position that parliament will adopt with earnest and serious deliberations in exactly the same vein as the council was serious and deliberative while formulating its position. on those premises and thanking you for hearing out the rationale of the council position, i hope we can move towards a reasonable and sustained budget for 2018 that will bring maximum benefits for our european citizens.
member of the commission. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. 2018 will remain a normal financial year with 28 members, in view of the foreseeable 'brexit'. the commission has presented its draft budget a few months ago, and now - and we thank parliament and the council for this - we have constructive positions, and i believe that the existing differences in approach can be brought to a common result very soon. we have no differences in the structure of the budget. we are equally convinced of the objectives we want to pursue: growth and employment, doing as much as possible to make europe competitive, including financial support for migration, and organising external and internal security at a high level in the interests of our citizens. the commission proposal has done everything possible to show economy in administrative expenditure on staff and material resources and investment. we will and want to have achieved our 5% savings target within the timeframe. if the council's position is to propose a further 1.5% cut in expenditure, we have some concerns which we have to address because further staff reductions would jeopardise our services and efficiency in the performance of our tasks. i would like to say, with regard to the cohesion programmes, that we continue to expect that next year cohesion programmes and the application of funds will be at full speed. we are late, we have not co-financed as much in 2014, 2015 and have not triggered the infrastructure investment that would have been possible and desirable. but we want to avoid having open accounts in brussels and a backlog of payments next year when we are at full speed. we are therefore convinced that this money will be needed next year, also in close cooperation with the member states. the commission is pleased that smaller but important projects such as wifi4eu or the creation of the european solidarity corps are adequately funded during this start-up and implementation phase and that the council is also involved in this. i would like to announce today that we intend to use the trilogue discussions in the coming weeks to convince you of our projects, particularly in the field of the future, research, competitiveness and innovation. i am concerned about the cut in commitment appropriations for horizon 2020 of half a billion euros. the council, parliament and the commission decided a few years ago that we would like to invest 3% of our gross national product in research and innovation. we're at two percent. the more we talk about it, the less we get there. research is the basis for future competitiveness. we europeans would actually have to invest 150 billion more per year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, after the cuts, we have to reject three out of four applications in the area of digital technology. we're not gonna be able to keep up with silicon valley and the pentagon and china. or health research projects -- cancer, alzheimer's, rare diseases, personalized medicine. cutting health budgets means that we are doing a little bit slower in health research. in quantum technology, which i pursued in my previous department, we have taken a flagship initiative with key institutes, industry and the member states. if we cut the budget here from 130 million to 32 million and at the same time we see google, apple, facebook, amazon and microsoft investing billions, we are sending the wrong signal here too. we are therefore not fighting for theoretical estimates of the budget, nor for the general budgetary dimension. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. and cuts can lead to projects being cancelled or projects being delayed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. what we don't invest in 2018, we have to invest in 2020, 2021 or 2022. i think we should rather keep the funds or even increase them, so as not to postpone spending to the future and to implement these projects later than the americans or the asians. and then we'll have to look closely at the geopolitical challenges -- security, migration -- and discuss with you -- because you're an expert on the ground -- whether and where cuts are justifiable and what approach is realistic. all in all, when i look at the next financial framework, it's a no-brainer to compromise in 2018. we could even consider not attending part of the meetings in october and november. the sooner we do this, the more we have time to prepare thoroughly for the next financial period, when there are billions of dollars in deficits. i don't see that happening in 2018. i would like to thank the council presidency and the rapporteurs of parliament for the excellent work they have done.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, many thanks for your thorough, passionate and deliberative remarks. let me just comment with a very few words. commissioner, your case made especially for research is compelling, and i can assure you that the council has a sympathetic spot in its heart about that. we will take that back to our council colleagues and we will certainly discuss that going forward in the budget process. it is an excellent point and it is a point to be considered, as you said, thinking about the long-term competitiveness of the continent. thank you very much, mr rapporteur, dear siegfried. your passionate points about the infrastructure, the smes, the farmers: we take good note of that. this much i can and will promise, and i will discuss them with our council colleagues and with you, undoubtedly, soon enough, when we start in-depth discussions about the budget. mr ashworth, thanks for your remarks. these are excellent points and as such we will take them fully on board in our considerations going forward and treating the administrative costs of the council. having said that and recognising that we are about to embark on very close and tight trilogues and other negotiation means, let me make a few more remarks just to conclude today’s discussion. firstly, i wish to thank you on behalf of the council and myself and my colleagues for your views, and thank you for presenting them so straightforwardly and frankly. today’s debate, to my mind, highlighted the fact that we do wish to strive for the common goal, to achieve the best budget we can for the european union and its citizens. as i have said, i fully respect that the european parliament may have – and probably will have – a different take on the proposed budget for the year 2018. i can assure you that we will work hard with you after you have formally adopted your position. we know that we can count on the commission and on you, mr oettinger, in helping to converge our positions and suggest skilful and balanced compromise solutions. i wish also to thank mr arthuis (even if he is absent), as well as mr mureşan and mr ashworth, the rapporteurs, for our interaction to date and going forward. europe as a whole needs a budget which is responsive to citizens’ requests, even if that is a constantly moving target. i am confident that, with the dedication of the european parliament and the commission, as well as our own, we will be able to reach an agreement, and a good agreement, in due time.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr bodil valero, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp on arms exports (a8-0264/2017).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than a year and a half since we discussed the previous dossier on the implementation of the common position on arms exports. since then, little has changed: the arms business is booming for the member states, with exports increasing to countries with democratic standards to say the least: egypt, saudi arabia and turkey are among the main buyers. yes, saudi arabia, which we in this parliament called for an arms embargo in february 2016, considering that exports to riyadh were in breach of the common european position. my country, italy, has even seen a real boom in exports to saudi arabia, rising from 257 million to 427 million euros in 2016. we speak and we vote, but the member states are deaf to our words: the bombs keep falling on yemen and beyond; civilians and children continue to die: we have blood on our hands. a restriction of eight criteria without control and without sanctions is only a hypocritical form to simulate a semblance of respectability. that is what my amendment has been saying for years and i thank the rapporteur, mr bodil valero, for having accepted it in her report this year. in 2012, the european union won the nobel peace prize: it's time you started being worthy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am firmly convinced that europe needs new, stricter and more effective rules on arms export control. the picture before us is disturbing. two things have happened over the last few years: the first, which has been commented on several times, is the increase in arms exports by the 28 countries of the european union. the second one deserves a little more attention and is instead neglected: we are faced with a systematic and growing violation of the eight criteria which should govern and underpin this process of exchange between producers and buyers by the countries which request it. now, without new rules, without a sanctioning system worthy of the name, we will continue to preach peace and at the same time, sometimes even unconsciously - but this does not change the responsibilities - to fuel war. it is therefore essential to change course and to do what is recommended in the excellent proposal by mrs valero.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, between 2012 and 2016, the volume of arms traded reached alarming figures, higher than in any other five-year period since the end of the cold war. there was an increase of almost 10% over the previous five-year reference period, accompanied by an increase in exports to countries classified as 'problematic' in the light of the european common position, in particular to the middle east. it is clear that these figures reflect a profoundly changed, unstable and ever-changing international context. it is time, however, to introduce a new criterion into the common position, one which takes due account of the risk of corruption and diversion in arms exports, and which prevents european technologies from fuelling conflicts which we ourselves have an interest in resolving. in this respect, greater interaction between coarm and siae is desirable, in order to better understand the situation in the countries of destination and to identify potential end-users of european technologies.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the latest nuclear test conducted by north korea has demonstrated the ineffectiveness of the measures taken so far against the kim jong-un regime. the north korean leader continues to develop his missile and nuclear programmes, pursuing a political and military logic that is part of a wider and more complex strategy of a regime whose main concern has always been its own survival. through its nuclear programme, pyongyang is trying to balance the technological superiority of its main adversaries, avoiding possible attempts at regime change and, at the same time, trying to impose its nuclear power status on the international community. it is unlikely that a tightening of sanctions will be enough to change this strategy. to acknowledge that kim jong-un's provocative attitude is insane but not foolish only confirms the scale of the threat at the regional and international level. but to give in to the temptation of a military option would mean dragging the whole region into a vortex of violence, the consequences of which would be tragic to say the least. it is more important than ever to create a negotiating table like the one with iran, with the union acting as mediator. it is now more important than ever to engage constructively with russia and especially china, the only ones able to influence pyongyang, while using our influence to prevent beijing from manipulating the crisis to its advantage. we can and must reach an agreement before events decide for us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the role of china, which was mentioned in some speeches, was totally ignored in the high representative's report, and this leads us to believe that the normally weak role of the european union's external action has been even weaker on this occasion, at a time when all observers consider, from the outset, that china's role, even if only as a guest of stone, in this crisis, which could have had and could have irreparable consequences in the future, is central. and incidentally, the facts have shown that china is even a possible victim of kim's nuclear initiatives and threats, at the very moment when an important brics meeting was about to be held in china to launch this great offensive, not only diplomatic, but commercial and economic, the great prospect of the "silk road" to the world, kim's provocation intervenes, which also has the consequence of weakening all china's expectations regarding the containment of the american presence in the pacific. europe's silence on these issues is serious.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the escalation of the declarations between pyongyang and washington is increasing the danger to world security. we underestimated the threat when the country withdrew from the npt in 2003. now the subject is back on the agenda, but little is said about the fact that just this summer a treaty banning nuclear weapons was approved at the united nations, with 122 countries voting in favour. in its resolution of last october, this parliament expressed its support for an active role for the union in a world free of dangerous nuclear weapons, primarily for those who possess them: the instruments are there, but the political will to do so is still lacking. we hope that, with the eu's support, a negotiating table will be opened for a diplomatic solution, following the model of iran. but perhaps the time has come to go further and boldly propose a path to regional and global denuclearisation, the only long-term prospect for truly guaranteeing the security of mankind.
i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on behalf of the socialist group. "always keep your heart open". and i 'll add: open, throbbing, suffering, with eyes on aylan. remember two years ago, that kid, a black spot on a huge stretch of beach... how many thousands of lifeless bodies over the years! my warning, then, is: not only fewer landings, but fewer deaths. and now i thank vice-president mogherini, because in her work and in her speech she has never lost sight of the human dimension. italy and the countries of southern europe have been left alone to face this immense emergency. now something 's moved . the italian government has taken a strong political initiative; there are obvious results. the commission has done so much. parliament, i believe, has always been ready; the board has blocked it. i told president tusk yesterday: the council must put on the agenda the revision of the absurd, aberrant rule which places everything on the shoulders of the countries of first landing. as you said, legal channels must be opened, because it is not enough to dry the water with a rag if the tap remains open. we must defeat the mafia that profits from human need; the european union must respect european decisions and also the european court of justice, and countries which do not do so must be sanctioned. and we need to build an alliance of dignity with africa. the instrument you mentioned, the one you worked on, is a very useful instrument: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the implementation of the investment plan in its external dimension to exploit the best energy resources in africa. we must do this together with the ngos that save lives, putting aside unjust demonization, such as that which is being attempted in these hours in other fields against the un agency for palestine. if the heart remains open, fear is overcome by reason, by the feelings and values that make the european union the champion of solidarity, the beacon in the world for those who believe and want to defend human dignity and rights.
i am sure that the vice-president is aware of the warnings from the un high commissioner and doctors without borders regarding the paris agreements on libya, chad and niger. the warnings speak of detention camps, where migrants are subjected to violence and death. the ngos' alarm also concerns the control by chad and niger of the escape routes to southern libya. they will be assisted by europeans to control the oases where the caravans stop to quench their thirst. the new routes will be mined or waterless. the truth is that africa will become our prison, of unprecedented proportions, which we co-finance. and the most impressive thing is that the union is aware of this: the european union is aware that 80% of the displaced people are already in africa, that very few of them are coming to europe, and that libya has not signed the geneva convention. the union is nevertheless pleased that the flow of smugglers has decreased. this rejoicing is the darkest chapter in its present history. it is absurd to call detention centres unacceptable, since the union has accepted them! the one thing that is certain is that he will not be able to say, when he is called to account because sooner or later he will be "we did not know".
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to the speech by vice-president mogherini. i agree with you on one thing: the european union is a great example of this. and, i would add, there is also a great deal of hypocrisy within the european union. we talked about humanitarian issues, we talked about violence, we talked about torture, we talked about people who are extremely vulnerable and need protection. but we see a strong internal contradiction in the european union between an ideal model of a union of solidarity, cooperation and the protection of fundamental rights and a real model of the european union, which is before everyone's eyes: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the right of asylum, and whether it is not already in the process of being taken. so, if we're to look at the facts - i accept your invitation - let's look at the facts: we see that the european union has allocated 46 million euros for libya. but we have an investigation by a news agency, the associated press, which has been picked up by major news outlets across europe and around the world, which tells us about an agreement between the government in tripoli and the militiamen. an agreement that even the italian government seems to have supported: it seems that italian officials were present. so this is unacceptable to us. i ask you, vice-president mogherini, as vice-president of the commission and as an italian, to verify whether what has emerged from this inquiry is true. because it would be totally unacceptable for a european union which claims to be a champion of fundamental rights to allocate eur 46 million to fund militiamen, to fund traffickers, who were previously paid by desperate asylum seekers, ready to do anything to escape war and persecution; but today we have traffickers who are probably paid with european union funds to block those same landings. so we have to shed light on what is happening, because otherwise there is no point in continuing to talk about compassion, solidarity, cooperation. we have to face the facts: this is not the european union that is concerned with protecting fundamental rights. we want a european union where there is real cooperation, where there is real control over where these funds that are allocated go. we need to make sure that this money doesn't end up in the hands of the traffickers. we have the recent ruling of the court of justice of the european union, which rejected hungary's appeals for the non-resettlement of migrants. we want a european union in which the rules and principles, the values contained in the treaties, are respected. we want solidarity, we want cooperation, we want respect for fundamental rights, we want the management of migration flows not to be entrusted to traffickers but to have legal and safe ways of access for those who are entitled to international protection.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the accusation of hypocrisy is partial, because there is another one: it is a double standard, because you have thanked the ngos in this house, but you have forgotten to say a word about the shadows cast by some of them, and, above all, in calling for the european union to block landings, you have not spoken a word to defend minister minniti, whom i oppose in italy, but who was a gentleman for his honesty, publicly declaring as a minister that he had decided to take a hard line to block landings because italy's democratic integrity was threatened! because the italians were sick of landings! these are things to talk about: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not prepared to accept the reality of the situation. you're a bunch of hypocrites!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent containment of the flow of migrants from libya should not lead us to believe that the worst is over. the agreements with the libyan government have undoubtedly led to a reduction in landings, but they also risk leaving thousands of sub-saharan africans trapped in camps, such as saba, where there is no respect for human rights. we can't fool ourselves. the agreement with libya is only a buffer measure that must be accompanied by long-term solutions aimed at eradicating the root causes of migration through a policy of cooperation and sustainable development, which puts human rights and the creation of jobs for young people at the centre. i remind you that the population of africa will grow to more than 2.5 billion people by 2050, and we cannot allow the agenda to be dictated by the usual economic interests of the multinationals. the eu-au summit in addis ababa must be the moment for this new beginning. africa is the mirror of our ambitions as a geopolitical actor: it's up to us to decide what image we want it to reflect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have welcomed with great satisfaction the outcome of the paris summit on immigration, which i consider to have been a fundamental milestone and which marks a radical change in europe's approach to this absolutely strategic issue, on which a great deal of our europe's credibility is at stake. a radical change is desired and called for in this house, and it is finally being approved today, probably late but which must nevertheless be welcomed with great satisfaction. the absolute need to change dublin 3, which represents the true anomaly of the european reception system, the need also to act upstream and not downstream, through an extraordinary aid plan for africa which president tajani constantly talks about, also through effective cooperation with the countries of transit and of departure - i think of libya, niger, chad - to identify migrants and to contain or prevent departures, especially of those who are not entitled to political asylum and other international protection. the strengthening and acceleration of returns are just some of the themes included in the joint statement of great importance: but now we must be absolutely consistent and we must add to the dublin 3 amendment as soon as possible in parliament and then in the council. in the meantime, we must speed up the process of relocating people, which has now reached 17% of the original plan. that is why, in line with what this parliament proposed in its resolution of 18 may, the deadline must be extended beyond 26 september to ensure that the 160 000 asylum seekers are relocated. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. italy has always been a land of welcome and continues to be so, but we must welcome those who are fleeing from wars, discrimination and we cannot welcome everyone, and therefore economic migrants. i am well aware of these new routes that human traffickers are taking today: the italian system is absolutely efficient in this respect. i hope, i repeat, that there is a synthesis between the calls for solidarity with refugees, but we must be equally uncompromising towards economic migrants.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have very well said, we have been engaged in a debate for years - and this is partly demonstrated by today's very difficult and difficult public debate in the heart of europe, which has led to a debate on the phenomenon of migration as a matter of pure emergency, a momentary one, and with internal security policies. the structural data of the phenomenon is completely obscured: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want a fact of present and future reality: from fertility rates to economic and social conditions, which will continue to keep the migration pressure high, particularly from sub-saharan africa to europe, to our aging as europe. that is why it is essential to have a global policy, a policy towards africa, as you have announced, and the effort we have been making for some months is very positive. a policy of stabilisation in the maghreb, starting with libya, and ensuring safe channels of access to europe is essential. finally, in this more global vision, we must know that in the coming years what is called the phenomenon of 'climate migrants' will become increasingly evident and the need to introduce...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the joint declaration is a major achievement for italy's work on migration. italy has changed its agenda, and we are at a crossroads: it is clear that we must not only think about what is happening in europe, but also go upstream, not just downstream. so we are talking about the relations that must be had with africa, the relations with libya and the certainly difficult and serious situation in that country. we are talking about epochal issues! no one has the word or the truth: maybe there's not one truth, there are many. i have heard in this chamber about what is happening, perhaps, in africa, about violence, about trafficking. what about what's happening in europe? what about the organized and unorganized crime that exploits and continues to exploit the migrants who arrive on the italian coast and on the coast of other european countries? we can say that this turn of events in europe, thanks also to the contribution of italy, has also happened because the relocation system has failed so blatantly. that's what i'm saying! because europe is not yet united! the important thing at the moment is to ensure, as high representative mogherini said, that, alongside a situation of poverty and aid to the african people, channels for legal migration are also created. this is a very important aspect. it can be done.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i heard my colleague speak of the country of first port: i would like to know from my colleague whether he shares the idea of a centralised system in the change to the dublin regulation. it would no longer be a question of taking people back to the country of first arrival, but of moving to a system managed at the level of the european union. i'd like to hear your opinion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be discussing the state of the union. let's ask the 14,000 people stranded on the greek islands. let us ask those who are denied their legitimate right to seek asylum and are sent back to libya to their persecutors, fuelling what msf calls a real business of kidnapping, extortion and torture. according to a newly released unicef/iom report, 77% of children in transit in the mediterranean have been abused. try calling them economic migrants: because these are the people you're sending back to where those abuses are taking place. policies in the european council are directed towards a single objective: the outsourcing. since they can't share the responsibility, well, then they move the borders further south. the associated press investigation has revealed agreements between the libyan government, italy and militias. and so the funds to libya risk ending up in the hands of those who run the migrant smuggling and the prisons. these policies have also been strongly criticised by the un high commissioner for human rights and the commission, instead of listening to parliament and pushing for common solutions and internal solidarity, seems to resign itself to the selfishness of governments and backs them up just when the court of justice is giving it the benefit of the doubt on relocations. what is needed is bold reform of dublin: the hypocritical criterion of the first country of entry must be abolished, as parliament has already called for, and replaced by a permanent and automatic relocation mechanism which takes account of people, their rights and their links in other states. and the only way to get rid of the traffickers is not to pay them but to open legal and safe pathways of access to the union and all the member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian government's initiatives have reduced the number of disembarkations on the mediterranean route: it is a new development, but it should not mislead us. immigration remains the priority of the european union because it is a structural, i would say historical, element in this great change of epoch we are experiencing. i said 'europe's priority', not italy or greece, because i recognise that there is more awareness today and i thank vice-president mogherini for her proposals, for her work and for the strategy she has outlined for us today. but there are still countries, such as hungary, which officially declare that they do not accept the court's judgments. i think these things can't go unchallenged. today we are working not only to save lives, but also to manage flows, to combat trafficking, to promote development in countries of origin and transit. italy has done much of what the european union should have done on this front. but now everyone must take responsibility for the consequences, and the first responsibility is to deal with the tragedy of the people who are now crowded into libya. i believe, madam vice-president, as you do, that criticism and comments are good because they encourage us. but in the face of these criticisms, some of them gratuitous, some of them instrumental, which i have heard from other banks, we must respond with our conviction and our objective: i am not saying that we should not be able to save lives, but above all, we must prevent people from going through this hell and falling victim to traffickers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, you have finally said that for the first time, i would add, since the beginning of the migration crisis, there seems to be a way out of the structural emergency linked to the arrival of asylum seekers and migrants on european territory. but much remains to be done. for example, further eu action is needed to stabilise the situation in libya, but above all, the human rights of migrants stranded in the north african state must be respected, with special attention to the most vulnerable, such as unaccompanied minors, and sufficient resources to finance the voluntary repatriation of third-country nationals stranded in libya. but even more effective measures and interventions are also needed to combat all the illicit trafficking linked to the migration crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the turkish government has sent a warning to its fellow citizens, advising caution, in view of the german elections on 24 september. for them, germany would be racist and potentially dangerous. erdogan's spokesman then added: the european union is a victim of a limited horizon, the european union lacks vision. i wonder what the council is still waiting for in order to stop the accession negotiations, a request made by our parliament not once but twice: in november 2016 and again in july 2017. probably the german elections. i hope that at closed polls, the only conclusion that can be drawn is the inevitable one: our values are non-negotiable, our voice is not silenced, while erdogan continues his repudiation against anyone who dares to raise a voice of dissent: more than 170 journalists remain behind bars and just yesterday, 17 journalists from "cumhuriyet" faced the second hearing of a sham trial. not to mention the violence against the kurds and the growing hostility towards cyprus. eu-turkey relations must be built on new foundations: the commission is also proposing to support civil society, including by providing it with these pre-accession funds. but now the time for words has come to an end and the right conclusions must be drawn from the behaviour of the turkish government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many areas where better political cooperation between the european union and latin america is needed. i am glad that the european consensus on development has been signed, as it provides a sound political basis for strengthening european action in this area. it contains an explicit commitment by the member states and the european institutions to support latin american governments through cooperation with local authorities. the south american continent is plagued by serious problems, such as corruption and crime. i hope that greater cooperation between the two continents will help to reduce the poverty which today provides a constant source of labour in the areas of drug trafficking. improving employment opportunities will promote economic transparency, competitiveness and the safety of the population. finally, i support the implementation of the european comprehensive strategy to improve the rule of law, respect for human rights and the environment.
the agenda includes the state of the union address by the president of the european commission (2017/2709 ((rsp)). before i give the floor to president juncker, whom i welcome and thank along with all the members of the european commission for being here today, i would like to give you some information on the progress of today's debate. i told you yesterday that i regard the european parliament as the beating heart of the european union, the place where the debate on the future of the union must take place. i have reminded them of the importance of the speech which president juncker will be making today and i have invited all the heads of state to come back to speak in this house. i think we too will have an open debate on the future of the union, because we are convinced that this parliament can really make a decisive contribution to the growth of the union and its improvement, to change the things that need to be changed, but also to work together with the other institutions, to carry out all the necessary reforms, the institutional reforms, those concerning action against terrorism, against illegal immigration and against the exploitation of human beings, but also to work on creating new jobs. from what we have read, there is a strong commitment by the commission to support industrial policy, which the european parliament has underlined. we will work with the commission to solve all the problems affecting the citizens. that is why we shall be listening very carefully to president juncker's proposals today: the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000 and will be presenting a report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000. the group chairmen will then speak immediately after president juncker, followed by debate, president juncker's reply and the group chairmen's conclusions. i would urge you to respect the time allotted to you, because that will allow everyone to speak and then president juncker to give a full and articulate reply to the comments which will be made to him by the representatives sitting in this parliament.
i thank the president of the commission for his speech, which has given us the opportunity to start an important discussion on the future of our european union. you have given this house many points for reflection, certainly of great interest: the european parliament will now hear the words of the representatives of the peoples of europe. as president of parliament i can only share your view that we need a more democratic europe. i thank you for pointing out this need. i agree with more than one of the points you have made and i thank you for having taken parliament's position on some very important matters. until this parliament can also have the legislative initiative, we are counting on the support of the commission to take initiatives in the areas of greatest importance. i now give the floor to the chairmen of the political groups.
the s&d group is pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the new directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. you didn't use triumphalist tones and you did well, because there are serious problems and we have a shot in the barrel of our rifle and we can't miss. you have made some interesting proposals, many of them from the socialist group, and we are grateful to you for that. but we must turn proposals into results and we must be bold, as you said, by attacking all the multinationals that have evaded tax, by forcing them to pay back what they have hidden by cheating. we must launch a great initiative against the precariat and the exploitation of young people: some of the young people, even with a master's degree, receive 500 euros a month! this is a scandal we must oppose! we must be as firm as the european commission, as vice-president timmermans is, on the issues of freedom, equality, the rule of law, democracy. you said these are the pillars of your policy. i would say: these are the pillars, the dna of the european union. we need to strengthen our decision-making: the unanimity rule is a virus for democracy in the council; we must have a european treasury, but not one that is the shadowy guardian of treaties and public accounts, but a democratic institution with fiscal capacity. i want to make this clear, mr juncker: we don't want a minister who acts like a policeman! we want a ministry for growth and jobs. we must get rid of the 'triple a' rhetoric on social matters. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. we must have a child guarantee for european girls and boys! no child should be left without food, without education, without a home; this also applies to unaccompanied migrant children. we need more courage on investment, on sustainability, on climate, on industrial policy, on which parliament has done a great job. we show trump that disasters can be prevented if europe takes the lead in these battles. and then, as far as immigration is concerned: i am grateful for the recognition of italy - i say this as a european, not an italian - but we must do more, we must have a revision of the dublin treaty. but be careful: the socialist group will not vote on any revision without the abolition of the aberrant rule of the country of first landing. i'll make that clear. we must have legal channels for migrants, president juncker. the blue card is an old, outdated and reductive instrument. we must have the courage to open legal channels: we cannot simply close the underground routes. that's right, but if you close the loop and don't open up other legal channels, you haven't solved the problem. and then you need a partnership with africa, which i would call the partnership of dignity. she said: more money, where do we get it? and who do we give it to? it 's very important . who do we give it to? i would say: let's give it to young entrepreneurs, who create jobs and wealth and create development in africa. finally, an adequate budget, an effective and strong cohesion policy, a budget with its own resources. let's also think about the web tax, let's think about it, in addition to the financial transaction taxes. and then, mr juncker, yes to transparency in trade agreements, but we must defend the interests of the citizens first. we want to go beyond ceta. let me be clear: the socialists want to go further than ceta on the issue of citizens' and consumers' interests. we have a blank page we can write together. you referred to innovation, to big advances, to artificial intelligence. we often discuss the sex of angels here and we don't realize that the world is moving forward, that soon we will have an artificial intelligence that will decide for us whether to make war or not to make war, whether to make nuclear or not to make nuclear. we need to keep up with these big transformations. we have an example, an important reference: the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is a good example. let us take that example and work with that love that is in his heart but that is also in our socialist heart. let us work together, with tenacity and loyalty!
in view of the timing, i would inform you that the presidency will not be allowing blue-card questions during this debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker has touched on many important issues: the european union is a major player in the world economy. i'd like to focus on the business side. turning the european stability mechanism into a european monetary fund is something that some people find very difficult to interpret, but not me, especially the proposal of a european finance minister: a structure which will then implement what is the mechanism of the troika in an institutional way: i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. we should instead be solving the problems of currency imbalances. once the quantitative easing programme launched by the european central bank is over, the structural problems of the eurozone will emerge once again: the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. this is totally unacceptable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, you have today outlined a broad outline of europe's future, speaking of many things we share, starting with the defence of europe's strategic interests. indeed, according to some analysts, this would be the most interesting and geopolitically relevant message of your entire speech. i would also like to speak about the reform of the dublin treaty, which is a priority and an unavoidable one for us. i would like to go into more detail about the need to support european industry more and better, starting with small and mediumsized enterprises and youth unemployment. but in the few seconds i have left i will simply ask you a question, because you have recognised that this europe needs more democracy. and then you didn't say something, which i think is fundamental: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. don't you think that should be on the agenda? you see, we would be catching the wind with our sails, as you wished, if the citizens had a clear perception that they are always at the centre of all our actions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker, trade policy is one of the most powerful instruments we have and, while we know that it cannot solve everything on its own, it must be continually updated and improved to meet global challenges. we appreciate that you have started your speech with this and particularly your words on transparency but we believe that we must insist on at least three things. first, that it should continue to be a genuinely european policy, open to democratic debate but without losing the prerogative of unity. the european parliament must therefore be involved more and more in all stages of the process and not just in the final decision-making. secondly, to make the chapter on sustainable development effective and binding. the commission has made a good start, but it is now necessary to continue the reflection, to make it practical and to provide it with resources. parliament is ready to make its contribution. thirdly, that trade openness be based on fairness and reciprocity. and there are no exceptions, no matter who our trading partner is, if we do not want to put our whole economic system at risk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, i thank you for your important speech and for your truly europeanist vision, a sail also propelled by the renewed europeanist spirit of some important countries, by the fears of many citizens, especially young british people, about the impact of brexit, and above all by the awareness that sustainable development, security, defence, foreign policy, greater justice, europe's role in the world can only be guaranteed by more europe, a europe that is free, united, just and reformed in its institutions, but also in its priorities. but the building of common values and a shared future for the new generations passes through a cultural and educational dimension of the european project, as a backbone. thirty years after the launch of the erasmus project, we ask you to propose that the number of young people eligible for the next programme should finally be at least doubled - at present only 5% of young europeans - and therefore that resources should be doubled and that the european year of cultural heritage, which you have rightly mentioned and which will be launched in milan in december, together with the new cultural diplomacy for which i thank vice-president mogherini and commissioner navracsics, should be a great opportunity to build and share common values, shared memory, intercultural dialogue but also development, social cohesion and new quality employment.
thank you, jean-claude, we can recommend some good doctors to treat you permanently, so that you can always be strong and answer all our questions. i also thank vice-president mogherini for her efforts yesterday with a long performance in the chamber.
since this is a very important debate and since we have been flexible in the course of it, the greens/efa group would normally have used up all the speaking time at its disposal. but in reply, if mr ska keller and mr philippe lamberts wish to speak for a minute, they are at liberty to do so.
i believe that a functioning europe is in the interests of the citizens. the europe that does not work goes against the people and receives the dissatisfaction of the people. let 's face it . there are forces in europe, including in this parliament, who are working to make europe fail, so that they can take the votes in their countries. exactly the opposite of what we want: we want a visionary project for a europe that works and gives answers to the citizens. first of all: parliament with legislative powers. tell me, all of you, what parliament in the world has no chance of proposing to make a law? no parliament in the world, except the european parliament. first innovation: it's for the citizens, it's for democracy. secondly: transnational lists. mr weber, the card is ready for you and all your colleagues in the people's group to join the club of transnational lists, a form of european democracy. thirdly: a president elected directly by the citizens and in this case the double hat is fine the same person with two hats but without the popular investiture, attention: we must ensure popular investment. and then: the european treasury, the federal budget, the european central bank, the lender of last resort. all this is accompanied and driven by european culture, because european culture is the real mascot of european integration, it is a dream, it is a wish for us, it is a programme, it is a political project. for us, it is the utopia of the possible.
the debate is closed. the debate on the future of the union is now under way, and the european parliament must be at the centre of all initiatives, because if president juncker is calling for a more democratic europe, we are the physical representation of a more democratic europe. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the brexit disaster and some of the concomitant international events seem to have created a greater awareness among european citizens of the role played by the union at european and global level. paradoxically, a moment of deep crisis can be transformed into a new impetus for the european project. it is up to the european institutions - all of them - not to waste the next 18 months until the 2019 elections, when european citizens will be looking for answers. the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework is urgent - for which an ambitious proposal on own resources is needed to increase the budget of the european union and reduce dependence on the member states. we need to change the eu's approach to migration, by changing our vision of africa: from a continent of problems to a continent of opportunities. it is essential to work on security, paving the way for the creation of a european federal intelligence system to prevent future attacks. above all, after years of economic crisis, there is a need to optimise available investments and work on the social pillar to ensure free medical care, adequate housing and proper nutrition for families in need and decent working conditions for all forms of employment.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the night of 24 august 2016, a series of earthquakes devastated central italy, killing 299 people and injuring or evacuating thousands. one year later, we are here in this chamber to express a vote that is needed to rebuild and to help those citizens who, having survived the earthquake, asked for help to start again and to tell their children one day that they had made it, that they could say that nothing is impossible. i am proud that parliament, the commission and the council have decided to mobilise this unprecedented sum of money - and we are talking about eur 1 200 million - as quickly as possible. today, on the day of the state of the union address, this is a concrete sign that europe is alive and that its heart is beating at the centre: in the centre of italy, where fathers, mothers and children now have an extra reason to feel european and to tell the story of a small but big help. this is the europe we believe in and want to rebuild, where no one is left behind and where we help each other. this is the europe of solidarity that our founding fathers wanted.
the vote is closed. the via report is approved. as an italian citizen and member of parliament, i would like to thank the whole of parliament for this gesture of solidarity with the people who have suffered and continue to suffer because of the thousands and thousands of earthquakes. it is the proof that the europe of solidarity exists. i would like to inform you that, following the request made to me at the opening of the session on monday, i will be signing a letter to president juncker today asking him to find a solution to provide financial aid to the dutch part of the island of saint martin, which was devastated by hurricane irma. the dutch part of the island has a different legal status from the french part and therefore could not receive eu aid. i believe that we must do everything we can to help these citizens who also contribute to our election, because they vote for the european parliament. they are citizens who have suffered the same devastation as their french neighbours. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dieselgate scam is still going on. volkswagen is recalling vehicles to update the illegal software and says the car that was repaired is within the limits of the type approval. but is that really so? more and more tests, scientific reports and news reports are proving the opposite, that cars continue to pollute beyond their limits. consumers are therefore duped twice. not to mention, of course, the compensation that is nonexistent. the commission, together with the consumer protection authorities, has in recent days written to volkswagen asking it to repair all the vehicles concerned by the end of the year, as it had promised. but i have a feeling that this is just another front. i think it is clear to everyone that the problem will not be solved by simply upgrading the control units, because the problem - we have now understood this - is not only technically obvious but is also primarily political and does not concern just one car manufacturer, but 35 million 'dirty' diesel vehicles in europe. the emis committee of inquiry found that there had been fraud, in that the european commission and the member states had allowed vehicles to be type-approved which exceeded the emission limits by a large margin, despite the fact that the technologies to reduce these emissions were already in place. so fraud and profit. in addition, companies were allowed an unjustified extension of the limits in force since 2015, thus effectively legalising 110% more emissions until 2020: another scandal in the scandal. we have not yet achieved any concrete results, and we are unfortunately accustomed to the european institutions' lack of action vis-à-vis the big multinationals. and volkswagen sales are going up: they're up 16% this year. i am not an expert on economic matters, but it seems clear to me that the schizophrenia and the immobility of the european institutions have paradoxically strengthened volkswagen. i don't want to believe that in europe the strongest always win. i can't believe it. unfortunately, this is what we continue to see. more than a union of law, to quote juncker: the dieselgate today is proof that this europe is the union of hypocrisy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dieselgate scandal has brought to light what many citizens already knew, namely the political link between car manufacturers and governments. it has brought to light the great conflict of interest between the controller, which is the state, and the controlled. we have been discussing for two years how to overcome this serious situation, this scandal, this fraud against consumers. today we are discussing the type-approval regulation in trilogue with the commission, the council and parliament and we are wasting our time. but what struck me today was something very important, namely the speech by president juncker, who felt the need to speak about the car industry and how shocked he is by what they have done, because they have betrayed the trust of consumers. well, in the face of that i expected a stand against those who have defrauded consumers. what did juncker say? he has kindly invited the car companies to apologize. and here, for me, is the commission's commitment: i'll ask the commissioners. are you kidding me? are we wasting time, or are you going to acknowledge what happened and punish the wrongdoer?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker, the apology of the car manufacturers is necessary, but it is not enough. we need consistent choices. first of all: after all the good talk, we need a change in approval. we're in the final stages of negotiation. let 's not kid ourselves . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly: what is still to be done to define a clear legal framework that gives certainty and rights to consumers who have been defrauded? consumer protection is not a luxury but an urgent necessity. thirdly: let's not let our guard down. we read about alleged agreements, cartels between car companies, to keep down the cost of components at the expense of quality. warning: we must not allow an old scandal to be discussed while a new one is being consumed before our eyes. we need to act now.
commissioner, i listened to your speech with interest and i must say that i almost completely agree with it. thank you for it, and i'm glad for the realistic goals you've clearly defined here. i think the european commission's area of competence is precisely in the area of the single market for building materials. in short, the european commission can do a great deal to improve the safety of the building materials used in europe, both in terms of their flammability as such and also in terms of the smoke toxicity of building materials, which has been mentioned here several times. i think that the european commission can have studies carried out here which can in future improve the safety of materials sold in the european union and then used in construction. on the other hand, i'm not in favor of any other regulations that would affect the citizens themselves. here too we should respect the subsidiarity principle, which clearly states that the basis of fire protection is a matter for the individual national authorities. but i agree with your thesis, which you have said here, that the european commission can be an intermediary, it can be a coordinator between the different national authorities, between the different control authorities, and the exchange of information between the different national authorities can significantly increase the security of the individual buildings. so i support that, and thank you for coming.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the number and scale of fires in recent years confirm that we are facing a very serious problem affecting the whole of europe and that it requires common, convergent policies to combat it: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. for this reason, i believe that the starting point is to amend the building materials regulation, starting with those concerning the facades and cladding of buildings: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the second theme is to investigate the toxicity of the fumes of the materials also inside. is it not true that everything that happens inside is produced by what each of us has in our homes or what occupies our rooms and apartments? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not affected by the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is absolutely the duty of the european union to guarantee the safety of citizens who move and live in a country other than their own. unfortunately, the grenfell tower fire in london also killed two italian boys, a young architect couple who came from my own area. i think they had a right to live in a safe house. unfortunately, a bbc news agency recently told us that the insulation from grenfell tower, the one that burns and releases cyanide, has been detected in 34 buildings in the east london borough of havering, including nine retirement homes. we read that the type of fires in the last few decades has changed because the materials have changed. we have not been quick enough, in some countries less than in others, to adapt the legislation to these changes in building techniques and materials. my country has come a long way since the 1990s. but i think you can never get enough. my country could already give some good practice because, for example, we could never have clad a tall building like the grenfell tower in the way it has been clad, which, the technicians said, is one of the reasons why the fire has spread so far. i agree with the commission's proposal, but i think it is only a first step: we must do much more to ensure that all citizens have the same level of security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent grenfell tower tragedy must lead us to review our approach to fire safety in buildings. the national governments are the first to intervene in this area, but the european union can also play an important role. we need to work on prevention. i agree with the proposal for an eu platform for the exchange of information and best practice to improve fire safety. comparable data and credible tests on the behaviour of building facades in the event of fire are needed. the level of toxicity of smoke generated by the combustion of individual construction products must be made transparent. the review of the construction products regulation may be the ideal opportunity to improve the legislation. each product manufactured with the ce marking should, in addition to its fire safety values, bear an indication of its smoke toxicity. this basic principle of transparency is a prerequisite for empowering manufacturers and consumers to make informed choices about construction products.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european accessibility act is a landmark piece of legislation and we, with tomorrow's vote, can significantly improve the quality of life, not only of european citizens with disabilities, but also of citizens with functional limitations, such as those due to age or pregnancy. so when the rapporteur opened his speech today by saying that there are many interests at stake, i can confirm that this is true: the interests of some 120 million european citizens are at stake. that is the impact of this legislation. so, we have to have the courage to dare, to design a path to the future that scares some people today but opens the door to accessibility, opens the door to services, to the job market, to education, to transportation, to entertainment, even to the use of smartphones. so, as the five star movement, we too have tabled amendments to improve this legislation and to make it more ambitious. first of all, it is about the accessibility of the built environment: we cannot accept the fact that we are somehow fooling the citizen by saying that we are offering him a service, for example an accessible atm, but then that atm cannot be reached because the building containing it is not accessible. we have to go beyond these limitations, even local ones. we want to be bold because we want to extend this legislation to those who have functional limitations, we said that before, so an accident, pregnancy, age, because it will affect everyone a little bit. so we have to design a welcoming world, also for the future. and we are surprised that this accessibility legislation does not include strongly the respect of these requirements when we talk about public tenders. that is why we have tabled an amendment, because for us in the five star movement, no one should be left behind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago we welcomed with great satisfaction the fact that the european commission had prepared this accessibility act, which for the first time drew up a comprehensive regulatory framework to make europe more accessible and more inclusive. i have to say this honestly: we are not satisfied and cannot be satisfied with the result that will come out of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which was approved by a narrow majority. we cannot hide our disappointment that this is one of the very few occasions when parliament is not at the forefront of the european institutions in the fight for the rights of citizens, especially those who are most vulnerable. it is a pity that the rapporteur did not have the will to find a more ambitious summary than the one he has presented. it is regrettable that the rapporteur has not adopted at least some of the amendments, not to meet the demands of our shadow rapporteur olga sehnalová or the s&d group, but to respond to the calls that have come and are coming, even at this hour, from all over europe, from representatives of citizens living with different degrees of disability. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we still have time to improve this text and not disappoint the expectations of the citizens, and to do honour to this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to accessibility concerns the lives of 80 million european citizens. i think the text is not ambitious and does not live up to the expectations of the european citizens. it is a text which risks undermining the progress made in recent years. the original idea of the accessibility act is to provide decision-makers with concrete tools to simplify and improve the lives of people with disabilities by using resources for works that are accessible to all. but today, when technological progress is making it possible to reduce the daily hardships of 80 million people, parliament is abandoning its usual ambition. this is intolerable: the quality of life of the disabled is the first indicator of the degree of social responsibility. the proposed restrictions are unacceptable, and they are particularly so in the field of transport, where efforts should be concentrated to the maximum. this dossier must be corrected if we are to make a step towards substantial equality and not lose europe's credibility.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like first to express my appreciation for the excellent collaboration i had with the maltese presidency, the acting director-general of eurostat and their respective staff and i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. the european parliament has always been supportive of the european statistical system and has highlighted the need for european statistics to be as comprehensive, comparable, accurate and timely as possible. in this sense, the extension of the european statistical programme 2018-2020 is an important achievement. it is not the pure extension of its deadline; but it aims to revamp the european statistical programme 2013-2017, securing the good functioning of the european statistical system, taking into account new high standards and expanding demands of data and information by policymakers and citizens. in the regulation, we envisage advances in areas such as migration, social and environmental statistics, as well as energy and transport statistics. all these data should allow the monitoring of objectives and targets of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development to be set at union and member state level and, in this way, to contribute to the achievement of such goals. let me stress the main issues we take on this regulation: migration is certainly a key topic. the new regulation encourages the further development of existing data collection as well as new data collection in order to better cover asylum and manage migration. this should give a better picture of the migration phenomenon, thanks to the valuation of other variables like education level and integration in the labour market. with respect to the statistical measurement of the situation of refugees, further cooperation with the eu and international organisations is foreseen in order to provide increased availability of data. as regards the social and economic area, with the extension of the european statistical programme, we have large and better specified indicators that should be available to monitor the implementation of europe 2020. the regulation foresees more detailed information on employment indicators distinguishing between fixed-term and permanent contracts. moreover, indicators should also include data on gender divides and wage gaps, as well as the measurement of pockets of high unemployment, including high unemployment in cross-border regions. as regards international trade, this regulation provides for the strengthening of indicators on economic globalisation and global value chains in order to allow an analysis of the positive and negative consequences for the european market, in particular for the union’s labour market. special attention has been devoted also to the production of indicators on income, consumption and wealth distribution in particular, indicators such as the gini index, as well as data on inequality of access to basic goods and services. improvement of the quality of information on national accounts has also been encouraged in order to allow better estimates of tax gaps and tax avoidance. the user friendliness of european statistics and easy access to the data are key priorities allowing european citizens to use such data for their education and decision-making. i recognise the important effort that eurostat has made in the last number of years regarding better communicated statistics and improving its website, for example, by including interactive visualisation maps and infographics. this regulation supports further action in this direction, which we consider necessary in order to contribute effectively to the announcement of the dissemination of statistical information throughout european society. finally, the extension of the european statistical programme for the period 2018-2020 has reinforced the resources at the disposal of the european statistical system. this recent increase of the budget for european statistics will bring significant added value in terms of outputs and will also benefit the statistical system in member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, improving the european statistical system is of fundamental importance, not only for the effective evaluation of the results and progress of the europe 2020 strategy, but also for the development of specific responses to new problems and unprecedented situations. the global economic crisis of the last decade has impoverished many citizens of the union, causing social and political changes that are not yet fully defined, and whose complexity requires new tools of analysis, not only macroeconomic ones. quality of work, new poverty, social exclusion, quality of the environment and of life in cities, suburbs, gender violence, democratic quality, migration are just some of the social aspects that need to be taken into account in the development of new indicators of measurement, which are useful for modernising official statistics but also for broadening the horizon of the quality of life of european citizens, in line with the commission's priorities in the programme for employment, growth and social equity. i congratulate mr gualtieri on his excellent report.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank colleagues for their valuable views and opinions. firstly, i would like to say in a very polite manner to my dear colleague from the efdd group that i completely disagree with his view. i am sorry for this, but i do not want to engage in more details. with regard to greece, may i remind you of this; that the independence of statistical offices in our member states is a key pillar of the proper functioning of the emu. this is why it is protected by eu law. the commission, as you know, has full confidence in the reliability and the accuracy of elstat data during 2010-2015 and beyond. this is, as you know, the commission position regarding many developments in greece just two or three months ago. the compromise that has been reached in very fruitful discussions between the three institutions is a major step forward in making the european statistical programme fit for the future. i believe the measures foreseen address the views you have expressed today. as priorities and information needs evolve, further developments in statistics will be needed at both union and member state level. the commission has therefore already started a reflection and stakeholder dialogue about further enhancements of european statistics within the framework of the next multiannual financial framework. with the support of this parliament, the commission will ensure that european statistics remain relevant and of highest quality to support our common endeavour of a better europe for our citizens. i strongly believe that we have a very reliable statistical programme.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the broad consensus that has emerged in this debate is a positive development, which also reflects the consensus expressed in the econ committee, and i would therefore like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken and again all the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteurs of opinions who have helped to bring this legislative work to a positive conclusion, which is a limited but significant step towards further strengthening the quality of european statistics, on which of course the objections raised in this debate appear to be without foundation. i would also like to join the commission in stressing that the european parliament is also a strong supporter of the independence of the national statistical offices. we have made our position clear on this, including in the context of the working party on financial assistance, which i chair, and also in relation to the greek situation.
the revision of the euveca and eusef funds has a positive impact in terms of accelerating economic growth, creating new and more stable jobs and creating more favourable conditions for investment. as we have said, venture capital funds mainly finance innovative, high-technology enterprises which are highly competitive on the global scene and which have a positive impact on employment. i myself have witnessed many experiences, especially in my own country, italy, of companies which have been able to use these funds and have carried out extraordinary activities. we have mainly intervened in four dimensions. the first is to extend the range of those who can use these instruments to include larger fund managers; this will encourage economies of scale for investment. we have also expanded the range of businesses in which ueveca funds can invest and we have reduced the regulatory costs that currently exist. the second choice we made: we have made these funds truly european. we have in fact intervened by standardising registration and supervision procedures across all member states, through a more coordinated role for esma. thirdly: we have made these funds safer by ensuring that they have greater assurance about their quality and management. finally, there is a reporting obligation for eusef to include a description of how environmental and climate risks are taken into account in the investment mode. i think we can all consider ourselves, and we are, satisfied with the work we have done, because with this new regulation we are encouraging technologically advanced social entrepreneurship, we are giving greater strength to public and private investment, we are creating finance to serve the real economy, we are paying more attention to the environment and, finally, we are offering protection and safeguarding of employment. i think this is a very important achievement, which we have achieved thanks to the work we have all done together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as part of a comprehensive strategy for building the european single market, in line with the objectives of the capital union plan, the european union is committed to regulating and supporting alternative and collective investment funds, with particular attention to venture capital and social entrepreneurship. venture capital, which concentrates alternative investments for start-ups, is a significant source of medium- and long-term investment for young and innovative companies, as well as for small ones. the figures for 2015 and 2016 appear encouraging but it should be noted that in the first two years of application of the euveca regulation, according to invest europe data, only 25% of european venture capital was raised outside the home member states. the proposal goes one step further by prohibiting additional taxes in member states and by broadening the number of firms in which it is possible to invest, thus improving the flow of alternative investment and preventing the dispersion of the potentially innovative and talented scope of many young firms.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their interventions and valuable views and i promise that i have taken due note of this very interesting debate. i would like to make some comments and let me start with leisure fisheries because this was mentioned by a number of speakers. i think that recreational fishing must be taken into account when setting fishing opportunities, without unnecessary intervention. the way that we do this is: we always ask the institute for systems, informatics and safety (isis) to provide us with information on recreational angling when it plays a significant role. with regard to brexit – a number of members spoke about brexit – i agree and it has already been said that stocks have no boundaries. as long as we have shared stocks, we also have a shared responsibility. we have to have the best management framework to work for sustainable fisheries, with or without brexit. others spoke about the issue of choke and this is indeed one of the main purposes of the plan. the ranges of fishing mortality will provide us with an additional instrument for addressing choke situations as well. our colleague, mr serrão santos, spoke about sustainability and i totally agree with him that we have to be serious about sustainability and to do away, phase out and stop overfishing because overfishing could be as harmful as illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu). mr torvalds and mr mato spoke about regionalisation. it is true that some serious regions have taken regionalisation on board and it is working very well for them. it is also true that in some cases, the commission has to come in and take decisions to act. but everyone is recognising that regionalisation is in the best interest of the stakeholders, and especially of the fishermen themselves. i do not agree with ms hazekamp when it was said that overfishing is continuing and we are not getting results. on the contrary, the common fisheries policy (cfp) is providing us with some positive results and as has already been mentioned, the number of stocks at maximum sustainable yield (msy) has increased from 9 up to 36 and that is, for me, a very good result. i also agree with linnéa engström that with healthy stocks everyone benefits, whether this is the leisure or the commercial industries, so both have to take on responsibilities when it comes to sustainable management. mr mato knows that the worst thing that could impact negatively on fishermen is a lack of sustainable management and this is exactly what we do not want to have and is exactly what the multi-annual plan is giving us. i agree with ms thomas about the essentials of the plan, especially the sustainable management of resources not only to reach but to maintain the stocks at maximum sustainable yield (msy). mr hudghton also reminded us that apart from the cfp, there are also international obligations to be complied with by everyone, including the uk after brexit. i also agree with mr kuhn when he mentioned as well that we need to start looking at the interaction and the impact of one species over other species and we will be moving in that direction when we start taking into consideration and taking the ecosystem approach, because i agree that this is a very important remark. i also agree with ms aguilera garcía that we have to make multi-annual plans (maps) work so we can then move to other areas and to other stocks, especially in the south. let me reiterate that it is of utmost importance that the multi-annual plans are made fit for purpose and to ensure this, they must focus on the tools to ensure a practical and a sustainable management framework for our mixed demersal fisheries. multi-annual plans should be adopted as a matter of priority as well, and the commission will make every effort to assist the co-legislators in the coming trilogues. thank you once again for all your cooperation, remarks and comments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 14 september 2017.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the future of the erasmus+ programme by petra kammerevert, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (2017/2740 ((rsp)) (o-000062/2017 - b8-0326/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, erasmus+ is the european union’s most powerful tool to connect with citizens and create a community of values, knowledge, skills and competences. it brings people together in ways that no other programme can. since its launch in 1987, erasmus and its successor programmes have given nine million people the chance to study, train, volunteer or gain professional experience abroad. in 2014 the erasmus+ programme integrated all previous initiatives in the fields of education, training, youth and sport. since then, in less than three years, two million citizens from 33 european countries have experienced the positive impact of erasmus+. this year we are proudly celebrating the programme’s 30th anniversary, involving european citizens – and especially young europeans – through social media, conferences, debates and exhibitions across europe. thank you all for your support in celebrating the 30th anniversary on 13 june in this very hemicycle. erasmus+ is undoubtedly a success story. it also enjoys support outside the political world across countries and institutions, with more and more calls for considerable budgetary increases for the next programme in order to reach even more europeans. i would like to thank you for your oral questions and today’s debate, which underlines the two most crucial issues regarding the future programme, the programme’s structure and the money we will invest in it. the feedback we have received from national authorities and various stakeholders in the context of the mid—term evaluation indicates that there is a strong call for stability in the structure of the programme to meet the unmet demand and for further simplification to reduce the administrative burden for all. in particular, preliminary results of the erasmus+ mid—term evaluation show the high level of appreciation by national authorities, stakeholders and project participants, notably of the integrated nature of the programme, covering learning in all its contexts, whether formal or non-formal, and at all levels of the lifelong learning continuum, from early childhood education and schools, vocational education and training through to higher education and adult learning; the adaptability of the programme, able to re-adjust priorities to eu-level emerging challenges and needs, for example the much-reinforced emphasis on social inclusion and prevention of violent radicalisation, following the paris declaration of march 2015, and the mobility experiences with high levels of satisfaction expressed both by learners and staff and across all fields and types of mobility. i strongly believe that erasmus+ should be available to all young europeans, and i share your ambition in this respect. we also need to focus on where the programme adds value. for example, the programme should support young people going into forward—looking study fields where europe needs expertise and must have the ambition to be a world leader, such as climate change, clean energy, robotics, digitalisation, etc. the commission will continue to put forward two sorts of action to support innovation and development. on the one hand, we focus on skills for life from an early age and with regard to all forms of learning. on the other hand, we encourage stronger links between schools, including vocational education and training schools and higher education institutions, as well as between education and the world of work. this will help young people develop a broad set of competences to do well in life and at work in increasingly multicultural societies. we must also respond to the calls for a more inclusive and outreaching programme. thus we need to significantly increase the number of opportunities offered to school pupils, vocational education and training students and apprentices. the programme needs to help young people access high-quality education, irrespective of their social background. mobility should therefore be common practice in school education and vocational education and training, similar to what has become the norm in higher education over the last decades. it is of paramount importance to the development of most-needed transfers of skills. moreover, we should be more inclusive and better-suited to young people’s needs, and for this we need to provide a european experience even to those who are not mobile. in this context, making better use of digital approaches, virtual tools and online platforms plays a prominent role. web—enhanced learning programmes, such as blended learning that combines digital media with traditional classroom methods, can complement physical mobility to widen access to the programme. it is in this vein that in june we launched a new erasmus+ mobile application designed for students, vocational learners and participants in youth exchanges to facilitate the mobility experience for generations to come. this app will bring the erasmus+ programme even closer to citizens, making it more user—friendly, accessible and inclusive and adapting it to the digital era. i welcome your support for strengthening erasmus+ in order to allow it to reach many more europeans and to continue building a stronger and better europe.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today president juncker has given europe a political perspective, catching the winds of change that can blow the sails of the union. but, curiously, he did not mention that the strongest wind is coming from the new generations, those who live in europe as their home, reject the walls, are disappointed by brexit and demand more europe, more opportunities to grow, to share, to have a future as european citizens. thirty years after the launch of the erasmus programme, nine million young people, and not just young people, have been involved in mobility through education, training, active citizenship, voluntary work and sport. but they represent only 5% of young europeans. the committee on culture and education has therefore called for a strong signal in the next multiannual programming to put young people at the centre of european policies. the s&d group, as the italian government has already requested - and president kammerevert has already mentioned this - will fight to increase the resources currently allocated, because we take seriously the commitment made, also in president juncker's white paper, to involve at least 20% of young people. but we need to make the programme more accessible, facilitate the system of recognition of credits and non-formal skills, encourage universities to fully implement learning agreements as a mandatory part of mobility, including on platforms, increase the size of scholarships and introduce facilities such as the european student card we are proposing to access facilities and services across europe. we want to restore mobility for high school students and strengthen mobility in vocational training and apprenticeships by making school partnerships more accessible, enriching learning content and strengthening participation in e-twinning. the educational challenge among immigrants and refugees must be addressed, including by supporting integration projects and educational corridors. for loans to master's students, we have to review the modalities, because they are not working properly. but above all, the programme must reinforce the added value of european cooperation, civic education and intercultural understanding as distinctive elements.
we are all rightly proud of erasmus and its history. so let's try to make it better and at least not make it worse like it sometimes does. erasmus cannot become a brand or an atm to finance something else. erasmus is a wonderful project, but it is still an elitist project, and we must strive to ensure that more funds and more support are given to students from the poorest families. the key is greater accessibility, which was rightly mentioned in the kammerevert resolution. but you have to be consistent. the loan system is not intended to ensure greater accessibility: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i urge you to vote for our amendment which proposes to delete this road and to focus on scholarships, which remain a real key to inclusiveness. and then we have to agree on values: from socrates to montessori, the task of schooling in european culture has always been to spread knowledge and to educate citizens, not to box young people into organization charts. in recent years, questionable concepts and categories such as employability have been used very often, the result of an economic ideology that would like to appear modern and represents a real regression. erasmus, school, education are not company courses: we need to be clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, erasmus is without doubt the programme best known and most appreciated by european citizens and, we must say, also the most effective. last june we celebrated 30 years of activity, which has enabled more than nine million young people to enrich not only their academic and professional experience, but also their real life experience, to grow as human beings, as can only be done by meeting and comparing with new people, with their traditions, customs and culture. because nothing like the tangible experience of europe's human, cultural and spiritual heritage, of what we have in common and what makes us different, can break down prejudices and mistrust and contribute to european identity. it is time to budget and plan for the future of erasmus+ so that all young europeans, and not just a small part, can access it. in fact, less than 1% of european citizens will benefit from it in the period 2014-2020. that is why my country has proposed to increase the budget for erasmus+ tenfold. it may seem unrealistic to some, but it is important to understand the political point of the proposal, which is to meet the countless unmet demands and reach a much wider audience of young people, therefore beyond university students, who are the main beneficiaries. i therefore take up president juncker's words: "every euro we invest in erasmus+ is an investment in the future: the future of young people and the future of our european ideal".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that erasmus+ is the best investment europe has ever made in young people: today, yesterday and, hopefully, even more tomorrow. these 30 years of investment in human capital have given europe a generation that is much more open-minded, more european, more aware of its own strengths and limitations, and it was also a key point for the young people who wanted to remain in the european union from the uk, and precisely because of the erasmus theme. i think there are also other very important programmes which need to be funded more and more, among which we have erasmus for young entrepreneurs: few young people know about this opportunity. we have the european voluntary service, among others, but above all the youth guarantee initiative. i think that we must reduce the current level of unemployment by giving young people not only the opportunity to study abroad but also the economic skills to be able to start a business and to be truly entrepreneurs themselves. i believe that our future is in the hands of the young people and we are here today to create their future and give them the opportunities that, perhaps, we did not have today.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank you for the debate. i think it was a really fruitful debate, and while we are drawing our conclusions from this debate and planning the future of erasmus+, i think we can easily agree that erasmus is one of the biggest successes of european integration. however, this must not make me complacent, and we always have to seek new ways of broadening and widening the social appeal, the geographical appeal and also the age appeal of erasmus+. a lot of people raised the need for a special programme for secondary schools, for instance, or to include younger people – not only students but also students from secondary schools – in erasmus+ in the future. we just heard a lot of interventions on the need to make erasmus+ more socially sensitive, and i totally agree with your observations and your interventions. of course, it is mostly a question of funding. when we are preparing our positions for the next mff negotiations we have to bear in mind that it is not only spending money for a special purpose, but it is an investment in the future. so this is the moment when we can fund the future of europe and the future of the next generations. i absolutely agree with the opinion that erasmus+ is not an employment policy instrument. it is a complex way of developing education, culture, sport, youth policy, and also employment policy and the future of the world of labour and the intercultural co-existence of future societies. that is why i think accessibility is a crucial issue for erasmus+ in the future. however, we are not without success at the moment. more than 35 000 students from disadvantaged backgrounds have already benefited from erasmus+, and additional funding is foreseen. i know there is not enough. that is why i was very happy to hear your encouragement to go forward in this way and to make erasmus+ more socially sensitive. let me address some concerns regarding the european solidarity corps. for me, and i hope for you too, the european solidarity corps is a great opportunity to show our solidarity with the young people of europe. the first deployment proved this hypothesis. in norcia and spoleto, where i was two weeks ago, i saw great evidence of european solidarity. it is based on volunteering. that is why the first phase of the existence of the european solidarity corps can be funded by erasmus+ by volunteering sources, because it is the same activity. these funds came from erasmus+. it has so far covered european voluntary service activities and now it covers european solidarity corps activities. in the future, the european solidarity corps is going to have its own separate budget, with fresh money. up to 25% of the new budget will be fresh money and it will be a separate budget, funding those activities which have volunteers – not only young volunteers but also people who are seeking better opportunities on the labour market –with apprenticeships and, in the future, with better job offers, i hope. that is why i think we have to support the european solidarity corps’ activities in the future as well, because it simply does not endanger the existence of erasmus+ and the funding of erasmus+. last, but not least, the european student ecard. we are now working to put together three separate erasmus+ funded projects: the european student card, the erasmus without paper (ewp) and emrex. we are trying to identify the synergies of these three projects and develop more comprehensive projects which make erasmus+ students’ lives easier, bringing together the results of those three projects and developing a european student card in the future which can embrace all the achievements of these three projects. once again, thank you for your contributions and let us continue this dialogue in the committee on culture and education in the future.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 14 september 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the european parliament and the council have agreed to the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the republic of chile on the participation of the republic of chile in the union programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) '. - the recommendation of ms inmaculada rodríguez-piñero fernández, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of chile on trade in organic products ((2016/0383 ((nle)) (a8-0257/2017)); - the recommendation of ms inmaculada rodríguez-piñero fernández, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the third additional protocol to the agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of chile, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union ((2017/0042nle) ((a8-0277/2017)).
i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative in this matter. i think it is important to remember this at a time when attempts to destabilize the progressive experience in latin america are far from over. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs rodríguez-piñero fernández, very sincerely, because i think it is important to recognize in politics the elements of dialogue, effort and listening. so i thank you sincerely, because i think you have done an important job and i thank you in particular because i think that, for the first time, to have included a chapter on gender in a resolution on a trade agreement is really a new element that i will not fail to underline in my report on the subject of gender and trade, which is currently being discussed between the inta and femm committees. the reason we shall abstain on this report is: i think there are important chapters in this report on sustainable development, on social and environmental standards and on the fact that the possibility of introducing sanctions in the event of non-compliance with standards is finally being considered. i believe that the sanction mechanism is a real step forward and i hope that the commission will take these recommendations into account. but we have a red line, which is called the public investment court system, which we consider to be only a small modification of the old isds. for us this is a red line because it is about allowing the big investors to decide over our constitutions and we will not support agreements which contain precisely these mechanisms such as the public investment court system from ceta onwards.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you and the honourable members for this debate. several of you referred to the fact that president juncker underlined today the importance of concluding trade agreements with friends and allies: countries with whom we share values, where we share a belief in the importance of the multilateral system, the belief that trade agreement is a good way to open new possibilities, and that you can have win—win agreements and sustainable, good, fair trade agreements to the benefit of companies, consumers and citizens. chile is such a partner, but it is important, as you have all said, to update the old agreement because it has become, obviously, a bit obsolete with the changes that have occurred in the last 14 years. as soon as we get the mandate (i hope that will be quite soon), we will start negotiating. i am confident that this will go quite smoothly with chile. we did a lot of very thorough preparation before we started, so we have a good basis for this. we have taken good note of your recommendations and your viewpoints in the resolution, and i will make sure that you are fully informed once we start the negotiations. i also take note of your wish to be regularly informed or to have some sort of evaluation process of the organic products. i will pass this wish to my friend and colleague phil hogan and see what can be done in this regard. to the earl of dartmouth, who has just left the room, i would like to say that, yes, trade agreements are complex – you might find out about their complexity very soon – but also tell you that, no, there is no need to have freedom of movement in a trade agreement: that is between the partners. it is, however, a requirement if you want to have access to the internal market of the european union, but i think that this is a debate that is slightly outside this agenda. thank you very much for your support. i look forward to regularly informing you about how we develop in our chile trade relations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 14 september 2017.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a crucial issue, especially when we consider the figures on unemployment and youth unemployment in particular, which do not fully reflect the plight of millions of people, especially in southern europe, who are still suffering from the effects of a prolonged economic crisis. what we have to teach cannot be reduced to teaching the skills required by the demands of the labour market. if that were the case, we would be misrepresenting the crucial role of education, which is broader and which must train the citizens of tomorrow, providing them with technical skills but also and above all with civic, analytical skills and the necessary critical spirit. i would remind everyone that functional illiteracy is a european problem, and particularly one of some member states: in italy, for example, it has been calculated that 28% of the population is functionally illiterate. so i believe that problems like fake news and cyberbullying can only be solved through education and education. i would also like to stress the crucial role of teachers, who cannot be precarious but must be protected and their role given the best possible value. we need to invest in this area, not to mention the phenomenon of brain drain. so i ask myself: what solutions does the european union envisage to put a stop to this phenomenon, which once again seems to be affecting the countries of southern europe more significantly? much remains to be done and this reaction only highlights some of the problems. that is why we must work harder and keep working.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new skills agenda for europe, which is being discussed today, certainly has some positive aspects, but it also has some negative ones. for example, as has already happened in this house, i find it unacceptable that the idea that illegal immigrants are resources is being promoted. i ask you two simple questions: what added value has been brought by the 100 000 illegal immigrants who have landed in italy this year? the half million illegal immigrants who have arrived in italy in the last three years, what has that brought to our country? i 'll give you the answer . i'm not going to do anything. in fact, there has been an increase in violence, aggression and degradation in our cities. the italians are tired of the damage caused by these fake resources. the resources that italy needs do not come from the boatloads of illegal immigrants that leave libya. the real assets of my country are the young people, the families, the working citizens who want a future of peace and without mass immigration. it is our young people that europe must invest in, not the illegal immigrants. (the speaker rejects a request for a blue card from silvia costa)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, even in your absence, i would like to respond immediately to what mr bizzotto said earlier, and i would remind you that perhaps you are not aware that, for example, in our country half of the immigrant women have a degree or a diploma. but i understand you're not very interested in the subject and you call them all illegal. i would like to say, as the former chair of the committee on culture and education and now coordinator of the s&d group, that i am very pleased with the good cooperation which has started in this legislature between the committee on culture and education and the committee on employment and social affairs, understanding that the challenge, as the agenda for the new skills for europe shows, is a cross-cutting challenge which we must tackle together, also through the ten actions proposed in the agenda. i think this is also very important for the most significant recommendations that can be made to the member states to accelerate the processes of inclusion of informal skills, to speak in particular of digital skills applied to all levels of education. but i would say that, precisely because of the great obsolescence of the labour market and of the current skills, a great deal of basic higher education is needed, together with the intersection with specific skills and, therefore, combining knowledge, skills and abilities. if there is an imbalance between these elements, we have not understood the challenge of the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union enshrines the right of access to training and learning for everyone. training and learning, however, must also be translated into something concrete, i.e. into a job that meets expectations. over 30% of highly qualified young people are in jobs that do not match their skills and aspirations. at the same time, 40% of european employers report that they cannot find people with sufficient skills to grow and innovate. this is a sign of a real short circuit between supply and demand: the most qualified young people often find themselves relying exclusively on family resources. if europe is to build a future, it must start here, by strengthening the links between education and employment, with a more flexible, individual and personalised approach, involving all the actors in the labour market in defining expendable skills and in linking these two worlds.
in writing. in the era of globalisation, especially digitalisation and rapid technological progress, education and training systems in europe are in dire need of updating. that is why the initiative has been long awaited and has finally come. the report broadens the concept of competence by not restricting the field to those which can be 'verified' immediately, but by including different aspects. it goes from emphasizing entrepreneurship and creativity to condemning cuts in education funding. the agenda's encouragement to use flexible working, which is too often confused with precariousness in the absence of adequate safeguards, is not as welcome. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, during the current legislature, much hope has been placed on the energy union, which aims to strengthen the union's energy security and ensure the functioning of the internal energy market. in this context the discussion on nord stream 2 is of crucial importance. if the doubling of the pipeline goes through, 80% of russian gas to europe would reach only one point, germany, risking further worsening the situation, harming other countries and increasing dependence on fossil fuels. nord stream 2 is therefore clearly against the interests of the european union in diversifying its energy supply, because it risks making the european union more dependent on russian gas and is contrary to european objectives in the field of energy security, especially for the eastern european partner countries. the commission must act in all appropriate ways to put an end to the implementation of this project - which some political lobbies seem to be happy about - which would defeat the european union project, the flagship project of the juncker administration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to welcome and strongly urge the leaders of the cambodian opposition here today to continue their struggle and not to give up in the face of the undemocratic choices made by the hun sen regime. it's a country that i'm very attached to, having also lived in the cambodian house at the cité universitaire in paris. the treason charge against opposition leader kem sokha is yet another arrest of opposition figures in the country while the gag on independent media continues to tighten. we also denounce the land grabbing that is currently being encouraged by the government and we reiterate our call for a total change of climate towards the opposition and towards civil society to allow the future political elections to take place in a democratic way. we also call on the high representative and the eeas to consider sending an observer mission, if the conditions are right, to encourage the cambodian opposition not only to come forward but also to believe that a future for their country is indeed possible.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here again today to discuss gabon. we have already dealt with this last year, when our participation in the election observation mission, of which i was a member, did not ensure fair and transparent elections but nevertheless brought to light the anomalies in the final results of the elections. the problems then existed were not only not resolved but even degenerated, unfortunately, into violence and clashes. it is clear that the current political and social division in gabon requires greater coordination and a redoubled effort on the part of all the member states of the european union to ensure not only political dialogue, peace and stability in the country but also a real implementation of the cotonou agreements, which unfortunately very often remain only written agreements or only words. finally, i think it is right to stress that the french military presence in gabon, given the current process, the current european situation, should be coordinated by the european delegation. it would be important for the european union to show its willingness to abandon the anachronistic mere french colonial presence and to support the gabonese people with the sole aim of helping them to find their own way into the future.
mr president, gabon has not been at peace since august 2016. the political climate is marked by violence, repression and the systematic violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of its citizens, political opponents and the diaspora. parliament calls for targeted sanctions against those responsible for electoral fraud and the violence that has followed. we recall that a delegation from the international criminal court has already visited libreville. we expect and strongly support the launch of an independent international inquiry to bring justice to the victims of the regime in power.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the european union has been following very closely the arrest last year and the sentencing of the three citizens about whom we are debating today: somphone phimmasone, lod thammavong and soukane chaithad, three young people charged with criticising their government online while working abroad. the european union delegation has held several discussions on this case with the lao authorities, including at ministerial level. we also raised the case in the eu-laos human rights dialogue that took place earlier this year. we asked for a fair and transparent trial that could be observed by the international diplomatic community, as well as access to lawyers and families for the detainees. their three names were included in our list of persons of concern, based on the work we do with, and for, human rights defenders. during the dialogue we handed over this list to the authorities of laos. the sentences given to the three are long and disproportionate, as many of you have mentioned. after their arrest was announced, the authorities provided assurances that the international community would be able to observe the trial but we only learned about the hearing two months after it actually happened. the news was broken by the media, instead of being reported by the authorities, as should normally happen. the european union is also following closely other similar cases in the country. in our contacts with the authorities we have called on laos to uphold its national and international human rights obligations. we have urged laos to protect freedom of expression and association, and peaceful assembly. the right to a fair and transparent trial, and the right of detainees to obtain access to their families and to a lawyer should also always be assured. during the universal periodic review in january 2015, under the auspices of the un human rights council, laos committed to protecting freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and association. all these rights are guaranteed by the national constitution of laos, as revised in 2015, and by the international covenant on civil and political rights, laos ratified in 2009. we therefore expect laos to maintain its own commitments taken at international and national level. in a few months’ time, we will have another opportunity to formally raise this issue in our human rights dialogue with laos and we truly hope and believe that the situation should have been addressed by then. if that should not be the case, we will continue to raise the issue and will continue to discuss the situation with the authorities of the country. these three young people have already spent over one year in jail, merely for having expressed their opinions in public, something which is completely normal in our democracies, as some of you have said. every day they spend in custody is one too many.
in writing. the prison sentences issued against somphone phimmasone, soukane chaithad and lod thammavon are just the latest in a long series. arrest and disappearance of activists and demonstrators who have expressed legitimate views on territorial disputes, corruption and abuse of power is a sad reality in laos. the government of laos must respect the right to freedom of expression and association and the rights of minorities, and must also respect the international commitments and obligations it has undertaken. the persecution of religious minorities must be strongly condemned and laos urged to allow access to un specialised agencies and representatives of humanitarian organisations.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the plight of the rohingya is a good illustration of the anti-democratic drift in myanmar today, and the attack on the rohingya people has a twofold objective: the ethnic nature of the suppression of a minority, and the religious nature of the suppression of religious freedom - we are talking about a muslim population. this is why the behaviour of the burmese authorities is serious: we condemn this and express our solidarity with the rohingya people. we also call on bangladesh, which we understand is in a difficult situation, to abide by its international obligations by not closing its borders and by helping to welcome refugees. finally, a final appeal to ms suu kyi, today at the top of the burmese government. we have supported your freedom fights for a long time but today you turn your head the other way and actually encourage these attacks. i think that if this behaviour continues, the european parliament should decide on the procedure for withdrawing the sakharov prize awarded to you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy which is afflicting the rohingya people is a great tragedy. although this house has already addressed this unfortunate people on more than one occasion, directly with the resolutions of 7 july of 14 december 2016, and indirectly with the resolutions of 15 march and 13 june of this year, the situation has unfortunately not changed, but has actually worsened. according to unhcr estimates, over 300,000 rohingya have sought refuge in bangladesh in the past two weeks alone, fleeing persecution, while satellite images show entire villages razed to the ground, in an area where access is denied to both ngos and un observers. we are talking about a whole people who have been deprived of their citizenship since 1982, a people of stateless people. the civilians who arrive in bangladesh are often shot, and the border between myanmar and bangladesh has even been mined to prevent these poor wretches from returning home. we are talking about a huge tragedy, and we are strongly and urgently calling for concrete action, for example we can consider withdrawing the sakharov prize, we should cancel the inta mission that will take place next week: it seems absurd to talk about trade in the face of such a situation.
mr president, as has been said here, this is a repeated debate on the rohingya issue. i myself spoke last time and i must say that of course this ongoing and escalating violence must be condemned. but we can see that condemnation by the european parliament alone is not helping, on the contrary, it is escalating the situation. we're talking about another 300,000 rohingya who were deported to bangladesh, and the border was mined so they couldn't return to their homeland. i think that we need to talk about concrete sanctions, about what the european commission can do, what the european union institutions can do at this moment in terms of sanctions against the burmese regime, and especially about what kind of humanitarian aid to provide, because the situation in bangladesh is very tense. bangladesh is currently hosting several hundred thousand refugees on its soil. i guess there are specific things we can do. so i also share the condemnation and disappointment of the nobel prize winner, but the main culprit in this situation is the military in burma, we should not forget that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing yet another humanitarian tragedy. this is not the first time that the rohingya muslim minority in myanmar has been subjected to violence: arbitrary deprivation of nationality, restriction of freedom of movement, threats to life and security, denial of the right to health and education and restriction of political rights. the un special rapporteur on human rights, yanghee lee, has already said that a thousand people have been killed and that 200,000 rohingya muslim refugees have entered bangladesh to escape the violence in myanmar. myanmar's leader aung san suu kyi, who has long been the hope of europe for peace in the region, has rejected with indignation the accusations of repression or even genocide against the rohingya, calling the news circulating in the west fake news. we therefore call on this lady to find a peaceful solution as soon as possible, which respects human dignity and human rights.
mr president, anyone who accuses the five star movement of always saying no is either deaf or in bad faith. when the rules and the citizens are respected, the five star movement is always there, and we have shown this by our 'yes' to the organic trade agreement with chile. unlike ceta and ttip, it is an honest agreement, allowing our quality products to enter a new and growing market and our citizens to rely on safe and certified products. italy is the leader in the organic sector with 1.3 million hectares of land under cultivation, 55 000 operators and a turnover of over four billion euros. we want to make this sector grow further and suggest that this type of agreement be extended to other countries. this is the five star view of trade and we say a resounding "yes" to this type of agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be going to palestine in a few days' time with a delegation from my parliamentary group to see the situation for myself and to convey my solidarity and that of my group to the palestinian people, as i did in august 2014. i would like to express my dismay to the president at the shameful behaviour of the efdd group, which has raised this question on the basis of slander and has not even appeared in the chamber. i think it should be clear that the slanders in the interpellation are rejected by the whole of parliament and the whole of the european union. if there are palestinian refugees, it is because the palestinians are still a people without a state, because israel occupies territory that is not its own and because it has forcibly expelled the palestinians from their land. this parliament should be discussing not the closure but how to increase support for unrwa, how to end the israeli occupation of the palestinian territories and the continuing violation by the israeli government of all un resolutions on the conflict, of international human rights conventions, to the last abuser: the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of contacts with the palestinian people. we should discuss this, how to get the european union, for example, to suspend the association agreement with israel. i think that what has been asked to be discussed here today is a shameful slander, which is a stain on this house.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the summer just ended has seen an unprecedented spike in fires: the number of fires that have devastated a large area of europe when luxembourg is almost three times the average of the last eight years, from 404 to 1 068. the countries most affected were those in the mediterranean belt - italy, portugal, spain, france, croatia and greece - which suffered numerous human losses and large-scale material damage. italy in particular, according to the european commission's emergency response coordination centre, had 371 fires last summer and was the first country in europe to have a number of forest fires, which wiped out 72 000 hectares of vegetation. member states often find it difficult to tackle such large fires on their own: as highlighted by the european court of auditors in a report of 24 february 2015, eu funding for preventing damage to forests caused by fire and natural disasters, and for restoring forest potential, is not being managed effectively enough. in fact, there is no specific legislation in the european union to date on fire and drought prevention, and the lack of a broader policy strategy on fire prevention is becoming increasingly evident. for these reasons we have tabled this main request to the commission to ask whether it does not consider it appropriate to mobilise the european union solidarity fund and apply it flexibly to deal with the serious damage caused by the fires; is of the opinion that it is not appropriate to set up european intervention mechanisms by creating appropriate legal and budgetary instruments to achieve better coordination of member states' policies in this area and to optimise the european instruments available; and whether it intends to present specific measures to prevent and combat fires and droughts in the european union, for example by providing for agricultural aid for the establishment and maintenance of fire-fighting ranges, in order to achieve better coordination between the policies of the member states in this field and to make the best use of the community instruments available.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ... to be still attached to the separation of powers which is the basis of the rule of law and therefore that a european commissioner can speak during a vote is something which, fortunately, still surprises me and i think it is something which does little to enhance the powers of the european parliament and to strengthen them, which we very often hear from that screen. so let me disagree strongly with what you said. i thank mr caputo for having sponsored this appeal, which i helped to support by signing. i fully agree with what mr pimenta lopes said about the solidarity fund, namely that austerity and cutting policies have made fire prevention and firefighting more difficult. i would also say that the member states have not always done all they could have done, that the italian government should perhaps buy more canadair and less f35 and that the abolition of the state forestry service has certainly not helped to deal with this situation adequately.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 14 september 2017.
ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are forced once again, at the beginning of our work, to remember the innocent victims of international terrorism, as is becoming a sad custom for us. this time the homicidal madness struck two women. it is clear that this choice, which is doubly vile, is not at all accidental. the equal dignity of men and women, which our european civilization has worked so hard to achieve, is one of the values we hold most dear and one of the most characteristic elements of our way of life and thinking. when you hit women, you want to hit what you care about most. on behalf of parliament, i would like to express our closeness to the families of these two innocent women who were murdered yesterday in marseille, our solidarity with the people of this french and european city and our increased determination to defend the values in which we believe. we will not bow our heads, nor change our way of life and we will go on until we defeat terrorism. a few minutes ago, through a statement, isis claimed responsibility for what happened today in las vegas. no one will ever be able to explain what could motivate a person to commit such terrible acts against other human beings. in any event, whatever the origin, because the us government does not confirm the terrorist matrix, on behalf of the european parliament i would like to express our solidarity and our sincere condolences to all those involved in this tragic event: we are all close to the innocent victims and the families who are suffering from the loss of their loved ones in such dramatic circumstances. i thank the emergency services who have worked bravely to rescue their fellow citizens. i would like to conclude by remembering the victims of the attack that took place last saturday in edmonton, canada. i would be grateful if you could join me in observing a minute of silence in memory of all these innocent people. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents on 28 october in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were tabled: mondayno amendments proposed tuesdaythe europe of nations and freedom group called for the discussion on the state of play of the negotiations with the united kingdom not to be followed by any resolution.
i have received a request from the greens/efa group to include on tuesday's agenda a debate on the article 106 objection: draft commission regulation amending annex ii to regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 to establish scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties.
let us now turn to the question of spain and catalonia. i have received several requests from various groups in this parliament. first of all, i would like to ask the house whether or not it agrees to the organization of such a debate, then to ask when the debate should take place and finally to decide on the title, since there are three different proposals.
before i turn to the title of the debate you have described concerning the greens/efa group, i should like to see whether the house is in favour of the debate. i think so, but i'd rather check with a vote: who is in favour of holding a debate on the spain-catalonia issue? (parliament agreed to the request) the debate will take place. there are several proposals as to the date of the debate: the greens/efa group proposes on tuesday: the gue/ngl and alde groups on wednesday; the s&d and ppe groups propose on thursday. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) there's not much to laugh about. we are talking about a very serious matter and there is nothing to laugh about.
mr president, we simply want the debate to take place on wednesday.
does the green group/efa maintain its proposal for wednesday? (confirmation by the green group) we therefore agree to hold the debate on wednesday. but is it okay in the morning? since the commission will be required to be present, it would be better to hold the debate in the morning.
the time limit is reduced a little. if there is no agreement, we have to vote. the ppe and alde groups propose that the debate be held in the afternoon. i believe there's an arrangement for wednesday afternoon.
the house has voted, so the debate will take place on wednesday afternoon as the first item on the agenda. now, the title of the debate: the greens/efa and gue/ngl groups asked that the commission's statement should deal with police violence against peaceful citizens in catalonia. the ppe, s&d and alde groups have called for a statement on the constitution, the rule of law and fundamental rights in spain in the light of the events in catalonia. the efdd group has asked for a statement from the commission on the rule of law and the violent hostile actions by the spanish government against the catalan people. the efdd group, unlike the others, calls for the debate to be concluded by a resolution. we start by listening to the groups explaining their demands.
mr arnott must present the request of the efdd group which, i repeat, unlike the other groups, also provides for a resolution at the end of the debate.
can you tell me what you're proposing because i don't understand? was your speech in support of the gue/ngl group's proposal? (the sitting was suspended at 12.30 a.m.) so mrs zimmer's next speech will also be in support of the gue/ngl group's request.
mr zimmer, if i understand you correctly, you are in favour of mr weber's proposal for a title which includes the rights aspect, so can we vote on mr weber's request? does the green group agree? i think we are seeing unanimity or a very large majority in this house. is the efdd group opposed to this proposal? (reactions without microphone, inaudible) - what? we shall now vote on mr weber's proposal, which brings together all the proposals with the title as formulated in the s&d group's proposal: constitution, rule of law and fundamental rights in spain in the light of events in catalonia. (parliament approved the request for an amendment) thursday no amendments are proposed (the order of business is as follows)
the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this regulation by the end of the year.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague gabriel mato, and his team for their excellent work, and also renata briano for her earlier opinion. considering the scope and complexity of this matter, the commission is very pleased that the co-legislators were able to reach a political agreement smoothly and in a spirit of good cooperation and compromise. this is a challenging proposal because this transposition of measures agreed under the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) relates to numerous recommendations adopted since 2008. some had already been partially implemented through the control regulation and the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. a review of some other regulations, including on control measures for highly migratory fish and on the system of statistical monitoring of trade in bluefin tuna, swordfish and bigeye tuna, is therefore also implied. i have read the statement tabled by the committee on fisheries for adoption by parliament on the issue of eu compliance with iccat recommendations. i do not want in any way to justify any delays. however, while i agree that we should transpose such measures faster, i would like to clear up immediately a potential misperception that the eu has not been complying with its international obligations. that is clearly not the case. first, following the adoption of the treaty of the functioning of the eu, any measures adopted by an international organisation to which the eu is party is binding on the member states even without transposition. second, despite some occasional delays in transposition, the eu has always ensured compliance with the international obligations it assumes, and the adoption of the iccat transposition regulation will, in the future, permit faster and more efficient implementation of new iccat recommendations, thanks to the delegation of certain well-framed powers to the commission. i strongly support this practical approach, as it will allow the union to deliver on its international obligations towards the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) in a timely manner, providing certainty to member states and a level playing field for operators. the transposition of measures adopted under iccat is necessary because they not only impose obligations on member states but also create obligations for individuals, such as the vessel master and owner. these obligations need to be transposed into eu law to ensure legal certainty and a level playing field for operators across the eu. the iccat transposition regulation embraces the series of iccat recommendations with the exception of measures concerning the recovery plan for bluefin tuna and mediterranean swordfish, which are included in separate regulations. the one for bluefin tuna has already been adopted. the commission is currently finalising a draft regulation for a recovery plan for mediterranean swordfish, which is in internal consultation, and we aim to adopt the proposal before the end of the year. let me assure you that the union will continue working with the rfmos to ensure better ocean governance and more sustainable fishing. we are fully committed to comprehensively and systematically addressing the issue of transhipment at sea within the framework of the rfmos, with a view to extending the union prohibition on transhipment at sea from our own to all waters. thank you for your kind attention and for tabling this important regulation for debate. i look forward to hearing your views.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the transposition of the iccat recommendations is environmentally important, as it provides for protection measures for some very vulnerable marine species, such as sharks, seabirds and turtles. another positive point, which parliament wants, is the obligation for the member states to apply transparent and objective criteria in the allocation of bluefin tuna and swordfish quotas: the member states will have to make efforts to distribute national quotas fairly, taking into account the traditional artisanal fisheries, which are too often penalized. i cannot, however, fail to point out that what we are going to vote on tomorrow concerns outdated iccat recommendations which are therefore obsolete for some species, with the risk of creating legal confusion: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. i would like to reiterate my disappointment, which i have already expressed in three parliamentary questions, at the unfair distribution of swordfish quotas between member states. the eu has used different allocation criteria within iccat and then between states, which penalise only italy: i am also very pleased to hear that the commission is now preparing a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after almost ten years, the commission is preparing the implementation of iccat recommendations dating back to 2008 and which are therefore obsolete, in particular for mediterranean swordfish, a species for which iccat adopted last year a multiannual recovery plan which is already applicable from april 2017. the situation is all the more unacceptable because the commission, almost six months after the iccat recommendation on mediterranean swordfish was adopted, has still not adopted any transposition proposal, even creating confusion about the reference period for calculating quotas. the commission must act more transparently and in a timely manner on future proposals to implement the recommendations. the fisheries sector does not deserve this superficiality and needs certainty. and that is why, despite the good work done by the rapporteurs, i will not vote in favour of transposition tomorrow, as i believe that the criteria used in the latest decisions are damaging to some countries, including italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that we must be very careful when we take important decisions which could have serious repercussions on the fisheries sector. the iccat recommendations, some of which are really outdated, although with the general objective of regulating the activity and making fishing sustainable, risk imposing new and increasingly heavy obligations on our fishermen, who have already been experiencing a deep crisis for years. before we accept new rules, we should therefore be able to ensure certain safeguards. first of all, when allocating fishing opportunities, member states should distribute national quotas fairly among the various fleet segments. in addition, incentives should be provided for fishermen who already put in huge efforts and use selective fishing gear or fishing techniques with a low environmental impact. thirdly, and last but not least, the iccat recommendations should also be followed by non-european countries. i therefore believe that, in thanking the rapporteurs for their work, the first thing we must do is to protect the interests of our fishermen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress made in recent years, the potential of women's workforce is still far from being fully and optimally exploited. the overall employment rate of women is still 12% lower than that of men and therefore, even in europe, women suffer from a considerable socioeconomic gap compared to men: women are underpaid and often undervalued compared to their male colleagues, and they are still underrepresented in decision-making positions, especially in business and politics. the international labour organization also points to the persistence of a gender pay gap for women. in short, although work is becoming an increasingly important aspect of women's identity, there is still a long way to go to achieve true equality between men and women. the real revolution in europe for gender equality is measured, in my view, also at the cultural level, by fighting gender discrimination in all its forms. i think that is one of the main challenges facing the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a worrying increase in reports of persecution, harassment, stigmatisation, arbitrary detention or arrest of activists and members of civil society organisations in developing countries. in some countries this is done with complete impunity, sometimes with the approval or approval of the authorities. in many developing territories the work of associations and ngos is irreplaceable: these are human rights defenders lawyers, intellectuals, journalists and peace workers who risk their lives to contribute to the civil and material progress of a population. the problem must be addressed by adopting policies to systematically and unequivocally denounce any attempt to subject european workers to any form of violence or persecution. but more is needed, namely a comprehensive approach to make the procedures for accessing the funds made available by europe more flexible and simplified. only then will the european institutions be able to play a central role in supporting civil society organisations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in line with technological developments, the phenomenon of cybercrime is taking on increasingly complex and diversified forms. cybercrime is increasingly causing significant social and economic damage affecting the fundamental rights of individuals, posing a threat to the rule of law in cyberspace and a risk to the stability of democratic societies. in order to provide effective enforcement, the definition of offences related to attacks against information systems and to the sexual exploitation and abuse of minors online should be harmonised and member states should be required to set up systems for the recording and exchange of statistical data on such offences. the fight against cybercrime must be tackled by strengthening critical infrastructure and networked devices, as well as, of course, repressive measures. given its cross-border nature, close cooperation with third countries is essential, including through the exchange of best practices, joint investigations, capacity building and mutual legal assistance.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cybercrime is one of the most insidious threats facing the world today. according to europol's 2017 iocta report, crimes committed via the internet have increased in the past year, in some cases by as much as 750%: cyberattacks, cyber fraud and identity theft are on the rise, reaching levels never seen before. to address this challenge, a common european criminal framework is first required, which prescribes a uniform definition of cybercrime and provides homogeneous guidelines on the detection and use of e-evidence in the criminal proceedings. but the fight against cybercrime will only be successful through close cooperation between the competent authorities and service providers, a synergy that has already proven to be an effective weapon against cybercrime, and european campaigns for prevention and risk management of online risks are needed, targeting adults but also minors, who are particularly vulnerable to sexual harassment or exploitation and cyberbullying.
in writing. the fight against cybercrime, a rapidly growing phenomenon, is both difficult and delicate. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report succeeds in this difficult task and i am therefore happy to support it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my solidarity today with jacques sapir, one of the french heterodox economists who was unfortunately silenced a few days ago. in fact, the platform where he has been publishing his analyses for eight years now, has decided to no longer allow him to publish these analyses because they go against the french government. mr dacos, who runs this platform, has been appointed as an adviser to the macron government. solidarity with jacques sapir, one of the few free and critical voices against this european union and against europe: if this is democracy, if this is freedom of expression, as the man who is presented as the reformer and saviour of europe, macron, wants, we are not going to stand by it. we are protecting the freedom of speech and expression of those who have denounced the horrors of this european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 october a referendum on autonomy will be held in lombardy and veneto. i think it would be right and appropriate for the european parliament to salute this day of freedom and democracy, on the basis of the sacred principle of self-determination of peoples, which my movement, the northern league for the independence of padania, has always supported also in these benches. i was a volunteer international observer on sunday as a member of the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs in catalonia and, with the authorization of the generalitat, i was in the seats and i wanted to testify on these benches to the regularity of this vote, the peaceful and absolutely non-partisan, non-violent, non-partisan character of this demand supported by a very large part of the catalan people. i want to pay tribute to this people and their determination and, of course, condemn acts of violence. i really hope that there is a lot of solidarity in europe and that the silence of the european authorities is deplored.
the agenda includes the discussion on the topic 'state of progress of negotiations with the united kingdom' (2017/2847 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when theresa may arrived in downing street, she promised that brexit would be a walk in the park. yes, a very short walk of just 500 days. and yet there is a thick fog around the negotiations and the responsibility - as has been pointed out - lies with the conservative government and its divisions. but we want to be positive. the interests of the citizens are at stake. it was pointed out by president juncker and negotiator barnier that mrs may made a most constructive speech in florence. we 're glad to hear it . but there are still many unanswered questions. first of all, we must respect the order, the sequence of the negotiations. when two spouses go into separation, they first negotiate the terms of the divorce and then the future relationships and so first you have to negotiate the withdrawal issues and then you can talk about a transitional period. it must be clear that even during this transitional period, if and when there is one, the four freedoms will apply and the court of justice, as president juncker has said, will remain competent. i must say that even on financial commitments, the british government is too vague, playing on numbers without ever making specific commitments. and on northern ireland i really do not understand how the british authorities can oppose the single market and at the same time want a soft border with ireland: they want the benefits of the single market without being officially part of it! peace in northern ireland is a pillar of europe, and i call on london and i call on the british government to take a responsible and realistic approach to this. the withdrawal agreement must recognize all the rights of citizens, as well as those of their family members, and it is unacceptable that the british authorities are already imposing administrative and bureaucratic obligations on european citizens living in the united kingdom which in fact discriminate against them. and i want to say on behalf of my group that we will never accept that there are a-class citizens and b-class citizens and we demand the same commitment from london. until the british government makes clear and irrevocable commitments on these points, negotiations on the future relationship cannot begin. i don't have to give advice to anyone, least of all mrs may. we speak through the vote of our resolutions: once again parliament is strongly united, thanks to the work of guy verhofstadt and our negotiators, together with our friend barnier and president juncker. but if i may, the british government will follow our lead: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now more than six months since 29 march, when the british prime minister triggered article 50 for the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. in the last six months the negotiations have not produced what we all hoped for, but as commissioner barnier has just said, theresa may's speech a few days ago in florence and the tentative, if still insufficient, progress of the fourth round of negotiations last week make us more optimistic about reaching an agreement. it would be a grave mistake to persist in trying to divide both sides, to make one side prevail over the other, a mistake we cannot afford to make. our citizens and our businesses are demanding certainty in their daily lives, they are demanding an agreement on a relationship as close as possible and as balanced as possible in terms of rights and obligations. that is why i do not think, honestly, even after listening to it this morning, that it is useful for anyone to polemise even within a government and create elements of contrast and opposition, which certainly do not facilitate the path we are going to face. i have heard from commissioner barnier this morning very positive and constructive words, which do not correspond to the words i have heard since, and i am very sorry about that, because i do not think that this is the right climate for reaching this important agreement. moreover, as the british prime minister reiterated, the united kingdom is leaving the european union but not leaving europe: issues like immigration, terrorism and global security can and should only be addressed and resolved if we are able to all stand together, regardless of what legal positions we have that divide us on one side or the other. these are the challenges of the future that lie ahead of us, and it is time for clarity, for concreteness and for responsibility in these challenges. with 2019 fast approaching, we cannot afford the luxury of a no deal or a deal at the drop: the consequences would be unimaginable and would certainly weaken both sides and the citizens would not forgive us. let us put aside the reasons for disagreement in this house, in the relationship between the various levels of the institutions, in the relationship with the british government, and let us work to overcome this phase of the negotiations, where it is the details and not the principles that create divisions. we all agree that we must avoid the re-establishment of physical barriers between ireland and northern ireland. we are all convinced that the peace process must be guaranteed continuity and stability and we all believe that the financial commitments made, in the end, on the basis of a comparison, must be respected. the rights and interests of eu citizens and uk citizens who are and have been resident in the member states or the united kingdom must be given priority. we are creating the conditions for the status of these people to be subject to the principles of reciprocity, equity and non-discrimination. that is why we must be much more realistic than politics often leads us to be: i want to be very frank. we must find a compromise and take into account that in 2019 the united kingdom will be, in fact, a third country. the ecr group regrets that parliament, through this resolution, and while understanding the reasons which have been given, has not accelerated the start of the second phase of the negotiations. delaying the start of the second stage is not a solution. it is not a question of the commission's being too strict. and we have a duty to define clearly the future relationship and to ensure a certain legal framework, both in terms of trade and economic, both for our businesses and for the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. we cannot afford to leave the production and trading systems of the european union and the united kingdom in the grip of the most complete uncertainty: the present and future of millions of workers and their families, as has been said, are at stake here, and they must be guaranteed. at the same time, as with the rights of citizens, the solution cannot be to impose one position over another, but must necessarily be an opportunity for understanding. we have already said this in this house a few months ago and we want to say it again today: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this report to the house. that is the work, the commitment and the contribution that we, as conservatives and reformists, will be making to this debate from today onwards.
mr president, we are now at a decisive moment in our negotiations. a lot of time has been lost, and we now see a more positive dynamic. at the same time, a number of fundamental issues have yet to be clarified, and problems remain to be solved. for this reason, it is very important that the message that comes from this parliament is clearly heard and understood. a positive conclusion of the first phase of the negotiations is possible, but we are not yet there. the parliament is, and will be, open and constructive in its assessment, but we are, and will be, equally firm on our principles. first, of course, a full safeguard of citizens’ rights, which is our first priority. the positive principle of direct effect of the agreement must be underpinned by an effective mechanism which allows the court of justice to ensure a consistent interpretation of its provisions. second, as we are safeguarding existing rights and not discussing future uk immigration rules, we will not accept to depart from any of the current provisions, in particular about future family members of eligible citizens that should have the same rights as current family members, about the declaratory nature of documents, about the need to avoid any burdensome administrative procedure, and on the possibility to export social benefits. on ireland, our resolution is extremely clear, and on financial settlement it is extremely important that the now-shared principle, apparently, that all commitments made by the uk during its membership of the union shall be honoured is implemented fully and consistently. on the basis of this short analysis of the points, it is clear that, despite some positive steps forward, a lot of work is still required in order to move to phase two of the negotiations. so, as we say in the resolution, unless a major breakthrough takes place next week, the european council should postpone its assessment of sufficient progress. by stating this obvious element, we are not closing a door. we are pointing out a way forward that is fair for both the eu and the uk. in this respect, we have to be clear on the transition. first, it can be discussed and agreed only after sufficient progress on the withdrawal agreement. second, it should be based on the full existing eu regulatory, budgetary, supervisory, judiciary and enforcement instruments and should, of course, fully include the free movement of citizens. third, while some objective links between the withdrawal agreement and the transitional phase might be explored, any attempt to buy access to parts of the single market through concessions on the financial settlement would be rejected. so we are in the middle of a very difficult journey. there is only one path clearly laid out if we want to get to our final destination. the path is the one indicated by the eu, and we will follow you, michel, along this way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the joint resolution which will be put to the vote, this parliament will be expressing an opinion which i approve. we cannot yet speak of sufficient progress on citizens' rights and the northern ireland question is not resolved. but i wonder what will happen to the agreements the day we consider them to be sufficient for the citizens. how can we protect them from sudden regressions dictated by the principle that "nothing is agreed until everything is agreed"? will we really be prepared to ask the europeans in the united kingdom and the british in the union to put their future on hold until the final agreement is reached? another question concerns freedom of movement: what i fear is that brexit will be used to reduce that freedom for us too, especially for unskilled jobs. i hope that there will be no compromise on this, that we will protect the status of all european citizens, without any conditionality. despite the clear uniqueness of the withdrawal agreement, it is more necessary than ever to break the binding of the agreement on rights from other negotiating chapters. it is not just a question of legal certainty, but of the concrete guarantees we must give to millions of citizens.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) just to be clear: spain is a democratic country; his king fought against the coup; felipe gonzales and adolfo suarez have built a great democracy, so please avoid polemics between one country and another because this is not the place to do it.
i am used to respecting all members, but i expect members to respect the presidency. if i give you the floor to speak on an item on the agenda and you do not do so, you are making a mockery of the presidency. and i can't accept that.
mr james, for your information, the stars on the union flag do not represent the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that i appreciate president juncker's clear indication that the european union must go ahead with the debate and the concrete proposals and initiatives for the future of the european union. and i want to say to my british colleagues: we do not wish to keep you back. we just want you to listen to yourself from time to time, and listen to others, because you've basically been listening to yourself here. i think our negotiator was clear, and i appreciate the work he's doing. i should like to focus on two points: firstly, the question of the rights of european and british citizens, including those of children born after brexit or of any new marriages. the agreement, even if it is part of the general withdrawal agreement, is obviously the sooner we can explain it to these citizens, the better. i'm waiting to understand better. the second point is the good friday agreement, which must certainly be respected for ireland: we must guarantee the freedom of irish citizens but we must also guarantee the integrity of the single market and it is clear at this moment that these are two contradictory demands, which we believe can only be reconciled if the whole of the united kingdom, at least northern ireland, remains in the customs union and the single market. if there are different proposals, it is up to the british prime minister to demonstrate this by making concrete proposals. there must be a clear and precise agreement on these issues. i would like to conclude by saying that a transitional period cannot mean postponing the solution of problems.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president juncker, this morning there was a lot of talk about the speech that prime minister may gave in my city of florence a few days ago: let me say that in theresa may's speech in florence, there was only florence and no reassurance, at least on some important points. first of all: we have always said that the integrity of the single market and the customs union must be matched by respect for the good friday agreements, and that we must avoid the creation of loopholes through which goods can enter europe without any controls and thus avoid customs duties on entry. secondly, i believe that the european union must certainly be prepared to respond to the british government's request for a transitional period. but a transition period is not a period without rules and will have to be based on the whole of the current european union rules, including respect for the four fundamental freedoms. two thousand years ago, seneca wrote that "there is no wind favorable to the sailor who does not know where to go". time is running out and we - and i think the british people too - would like to know what course mrs may wants to take.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, (off the microphone) at least some of it seems to understand or is beginning to understand that you cannot have access to the single market and at the same time build walls against community workers; as the english say, you can't have your cake and eat it too. the brexit ringleaders, all gone here, face the reality that it will inevitably be hard on britain and change their tune but we continue on our way: we ask theresa may for concrete and certain terms of withdrawal. i fully appreciate the position taken by commissioner barnier this morning. parliament must be clear: no delaying tactics, no transition without certainty. you don't play with people's lives. i think that the lives of the people cannot be put on hold for a certain period of time, waiting perhaps to postpone the moment when british conservative politicians, who have often played to their mutual party positions, will be called to account for their mistakes. we are not punitive, but we are trying to get something done. but i see today, and i hear from my colleagues, that they are very afraid to face the consequences of their choices.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i really do ask for your attention for a moment. this is an important speech. in tunisia, in the port of sfax, two european citizens, two italian citizens, named giacomo and salvatore, are being kidnapped. they have been held on board their fishing vessel, which has been seized by the tunisian government, for 18 days. i really ask, in the name of respect for fishermen, work and freedom, that you help salvatore and giacomo to return to europe, to return to italy.
i will inform the foreign office immediately so that all necessary steps can be taken at least in connection with the supply of medicines to one of the two european citizens detained by tunisia. i hope that we can get them released as soon as possible. i shall call the external service as soon as i leave the chamber so that a european initiative can be launched immediately. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that parliament must continue negotiations vigorously to ensure that the united kingdom respects the terms and conditions for leaving the union, now a year and a half after the referendum. i think that at the present stage there is very little progress. i believe that the european union cannot afford to be uncertain or insecure. europe must continue to act and ensure the protection of european citizens living across the channel today: there are over 600,000. finally, i think i have to stress that britain must keep its financial commitments, whereas it has a large trade deficit with the european union. there are still differences and inconsistencies on this and other key points of the agreement, which need to be addressed as soon as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just over a year after the brexit referendum, awareness of the role of the european union has increased considerably. the union has a window of opportunity to seize the opportunities offered by this stumbling block, provided, however, that the state of uncertainty generated by unintended cohabitation does not extend beyond measure. the acceptance of the british prime minister's request for a transitional period of limited duration must therefore be conditional on certainty as to the duration of that period, the continuation of the entire acquis communautaire, the full jurisdiction of the court of justice of the union and the conclusion of a genuine withdrawal agreement, which should cover in particular the issues relating to the rights of european citizens in the united kingdom and of british citizens in europe, the fate of ireland and the financial settlement obligations of the european union. the good words of last september must be followed by the facts. without an orderly withdrawal by the united kingdom of the union, no negotiations should be opened in the framework of the future relationship, nor can and should any transition phase be allowed.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this important report was intended to incorporate into eu law the measures adopted by the iccat commission even ten years ago: are used for the conservation and management of tuna. not only are we late, we're doing it badly. it was a good opportunity to protect fish stocks but also the income of our fishermen, i am thinking in particular of those from artisanal and traditional fishing. first of all, transparency had to be increased in order to combat illegal and irregular fishing. the allocation of tuna and swordfish quotas was to be based on transparent and objective criteria, including environmental criteria, while also taking into account social and economic considerations. the allocation of total allowable catches (tacs) was to be made with particular attention to traditional and artisanal fishing and to encourage union vessels using selective fishing gear or fishing techniques with a reduced environmental impact. for this reason too, particular attention should have been paid to the regulation of by-catches or incidental catches, in order to meet the demands of small-scale fishing, which is trying to exploit a resource that has not been in crisis for some years, but whose abundance is bringing dozens of companies to their knees. for these reasons i could not support the report, which, as amended, represents a step backwards from the status quo.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the fight against cybercrime should be one of the priorities of the european union, because of the value it represents and, above all, because of the sectors it involves: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child pornography, the cybercrime affecting businesses, and the constantly increasing fraud. and the way we use technology in all of our activities and in our daily lives, it makes this industry even more vulnerable. i believe that this measure can only take account of the need for the countries of the union to do a thoroughly coordinated job, in order to be able to use the fight against cybercrime above all on the front where we are most exposed: the terrorism. a terrorism that is increasingly technological, that aims to gather consent through the web, in an absolutely invasive way, that i believe must be fought in an absolutely hard and deep way. and only through teamwork, networking and cohesion across countries can this be achieved.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. just to ask if there are provisions in the electoral law to help the many moldovans living abroad in italy there are 135 000 by putting them in a position to participate in the vote. i therefore ask whether this can be a further element of discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and moldova: are we a player or just a payer? while the moldovan parliament was adopting a reform of the electoral system, moving to a system that was also strongly criticised by the venice commission, because of the enormous benefits for the ruling party, the ink was still fresh on our decision to grant macrofinancial assistance. and this is just the tip of the iceberg. the recent amendments to the new ngo law, if adopted, would severely undermine the activity of civil society, often the only bulwark in the country against rampant corruption. while the colossal one billion dollar bank fraud, after three years, is still all quiet. as a former election observer in the country, it is my hope and the hope of many to see moldova join us in the european union family one day. but our benevolence must not be mistaken for stupidity. i believe that if the moldovan government does not quickly change its ways, it is appropriate to reassess the granting of macrofinancial assistance and to direct it instead to projects and programmes with full support of civil society.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thanks also to the support of several associations in the area, we raised the problem of early marriage in the european union in the femm committee, proposing that a question be put with a request for an oral answer and a resolution be adopted. so, what's the rush? because every year millions of girls travel from the member states to their parents' home countries to enter into unwanted and unrealized marriages arranged by their parents with adult men. millions of girls every year see their dreams of living free and fulfilling their careers shattered. just last month an italian journalistic investigation reported on the annual disappearance of thousands of girls between the ages of 13 and 17, who are sent to bangladesh, pakistan and other countries to marry a distant relative much older than themselves. but these girls were born and raised in europe, they went to european schools and european culture, they are european in every respect. unfortunately, there is a lack of reliable data, which is why we are today urging the commission to take account of the seriousness of the problem, and at the same time calling on the member states to monitor the risk situations in their own countries and to increase the penalties for the actual rape of minors.
mr president, commissioner, there are 60 million child brides in the world and it has been estimated that in the developing countries one in three girls is married before the age of 18. one in nine girls are married before they're 15, and girls without education are three times more likely to be married before they're 15. the probability of death from sexual intercourse before puberty is very high - colleagues have also mentioned this - and the mortality rate during childbirth is also naturally high. these are numbers which speak of a real emergency, mr president and commissioner. an emergency that we cannot really turn away from, and it is good to be clear that these forced child marriages are the legalization and cover for those who continue to practice pedophilia, for those who continue to stain themselves with a particularly aberrant, particularly hateful crime and for which i believe we should have absolutely no tolerance. and that means doing something concrete, it certainly means going in the direction we wanted through this resolution, which is an important thing, because fighting these practices simply means defending basic human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that today we are dealing with the subject of 'being on the side of the girls', as the title of a wonderful book by elena gianini belotti says. i think that the discussion we had in the last plenary session, calling for the ratification of the istanbul convention throughout the european union, by all the member states, gives us an important tool and an important indication precisely because it recognizes violence against women in many different ways, including violence against girls. children whose early marriages prevent them from fully developing their path to self-determination, their path to self-awareness, and whose health is undermined - as has already been well said by my colleagues who have preceded me - by forced, forced and unwanted sexual intercourse and by pregnancies, precisely, unwanted pregnancies. i think this is an urgent matter for this house and i hope that the commission will take strong action to safeguard the rights of girls.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the members who have brought this important issue of child marriage to the house. i also thank the associations that work every day in the area to stop this phenomenon. we said it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against the dangers of trafficking in human beings. we can act as europe, as parliament, by taking this phenomenon into account in cooperation agreements, because it is not ethical to do business with countries which do not respect human rights. but we must not forget that the issue of child marriage is increasingly relevant to us in the european union and not just to the developing countries. we have already quoted: i am referring to the cases of early school leavers, where european girls suddenly disappear and, if all goes well, stay in italy or even go outside the borders of europe. we must stop this flow: a strong regulatory initiative at european and national level is needed to stop this phenomenon.
mr president, commissioner, early and forced marriages, and in particular the phenomenon of child brides, are a worldwide scourge, perhaps still underestimated and therefore not adequately combated at the legal and socio-cultural level. millions of young women around the world are married before they are even 14 years old, and such early and forced marriages are a very harmful phenomenon, which involves a serious violation of the rights of girls, who are often subjected to violence and abuse, and in any case deprived of the right to childhood but also of dignity, hope and the possibility of choosing their own future. as the european union, we have a responsibility to act: we must ensure that respect for the dignity and rights of children, in addition to being established throughout europe, is the necessary prerequisite for the establishment of cooperation agreements with those developing countries where this practice persists, and for the promotion and initiation of a process of reforms aimed at respecting the rights of young women and girls.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of child marriage is steadily increasing and, according to save the children, is one of the main barriers to girls' access to services and opportunities. every seven seconds around the world, a girl under 15 is married, often to a much older man. all these girls are not ready physically, not ready psychologically, not ready for marriage, much less for pregnancy. unfortunately, legal efforts to protect it by criminalizing child marriage are hampered by the prevailing political culture, the connivance of religious extremists, and persistent gender bias. the international community has committed to ending the practice of child marriage by 2030: but if the number of child brides in the world continues to grow at the current rate, by that date we will have 950 million young women married. the work to be done is to spread legislation to prevent the possibility of marriage to minors and europe must do its part.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, egypt and the european union are committed to promoting democracy, fundamental freedoms and human rights as constitutional rights for all their citizens. written words of the eu-egypt partnership 2017-2020, words that are paradoxical, bitterly surreal, considering that in the territory of our partner, anyone who wants to investigate the approximately 378 cases of enforced disappearances is brutally silenced, as evidenced by the recent case of regeni family lawyer ibrahim metwaly hegazy, imprisoned in tora maximum security prison. all his clothes were taken off and his body was subjected to electric shocks; he's in isolation with no electricity and his cell is full of garbage. this is according to the egyptian commission for rights and freedoms, whose headquarters the egyptian authorities are likely to put their seals on today. we share the desire to strengthen cooperation with egypt, but we cannot close our eyes or silence our voices in the face of the shameful silence over the kidnapping, torture and death of giulio regeni, an italian boy and a european citizen. we are not and will not be complicit in a utilitarian hypocrisy and today, as always, we call out loud for truth and justice for giulio regeni.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of this partnership agreement cannot be ignored by those of us who are concerned about the security of the mediterranean, the problem of immigration, but also, and perhaps above all, the serious problem of terrorism. cairo's cooperation in security is more necessary than ever now that, after the defeat in iraq and syria, isis is shifting the axis of the caliphate's operations to north africa and the sahel, that is, very close to europe and in particular to my country, italy: but it's not that i don't see the seriousness of the human rights situation. if we, as the european union, want to be reliable and credible friends and partners of this country, which i still consider a friend, we must speak very clearly about some facts of exceptional gravity, such as those which have been mentioned by my colleagues, many times and rightly, such as the truly emblematic case of giulio regeni, a young man sent from a european university. it is also strange that the european union has not wanted to go into the role of this university and of these teachers, which were real tasks given to this young researcher, certainly in good faith. i would like to know what concrete actions high representative mogherini has taken to defend the memory, the honour and above all the demands, also from a moral point of view, of two italian parents who still have the right to know what happened to their son.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am convinced of the strategic importance of egypt's role in the mediterranean and i believe it is essential that the basis of the dialogue should also be a common commitment to the values of democracy and respect for human rights, as stated in the preamble to the document of the association council. i wonder how it is possible today to talk about cooperation, trade, investment, immigration and terrorism, when egypt is constantly violating this preamble through repressive human rights policies. cases such as that of ibrahim metwaly, a lawyer committed to human rights and involved in the sad story of giulio regeni, for whom he fought hard to obtain the truth, detained in inhumane conditions or like that of his colleagues ahmad amasha hanan and badr el-din. these cases, like many others, are there to show that we have a duty to intervene, also using the tools that the partnership offers to get them released and change egypt's human rights record. i understand the political realism, but when it makes the tabula rasa of moral principles, the problem arises and with force. we must be aware that the coherence and credibility of european foreign policy are also measured by the way we deal with these problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about partnership between the eu and egypt: but what kind of partnership can there be with a country that tramples on fundamental rights on a daily basis and without the truth about the torture and barbaric murder of a young european researcher, giulio regeni: we have been asking for truth for 20 months now and we have not gotten it. the egyptian authorities have never cooperated effectively with the investigations. and this is a battle for julius, but it is also a battle for many others in egypt who are facing the same fate. the forced disappearances, the serious intimidation of lawyers assisting giulio's family in egypt, not least the arrest of ibrahim metwaly, and the attempt to close the offices of the egyptian commission for human rights and freedoms continue. giulio's parents were in this parliament a year ago and asked for specific things, but they were not heard: we must stop sending arms and spy material, stop treating egypt as a safe country, stop returning refugees. the lack of solidarity on the part of the other european countries, which have quietly continued to trade, including arms, with egypt, is scandalous, and when tusk meets with sisi in new york, he only talks about working together to stop the migrants. if the eu turns a blind eye to human rights, it has ceased to exist.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as some of my colleagues have said before, i think it is absurd to discuss egypt and cooperation with egypt in this house without putting the issue of the constant violation of human rights at the centre. the regeni family, the parents of giulio reggiani, asked the european parliament here just a year ago, as mrs schlein recalled, to take a position on egypt, on its continued silence on the murder of giulio regni and on the torture he suffered in egypt. to continue to consider egypt a safe country, to continue to pretend to be nothing, in order to ensure that egypt continues to prevent migrants from reaching europe is a crime, a crime that history will not forgive the european union, just as it will not forgive the silence on the violation of human rights in libya and on what israel continues to do.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me highlight at the outset that by the united nations climate change conference taking place in november this year in bonn, known as cop 23, all member states should have finalised their ratification procedures for the paris agreement. by this step we confirm our credibility and our responsibility. the eu and its member states have reaffirmed clearly their commitment to continued climate action in line with the objectives of the paris agreement. despite the political changeover in the us, we are encouraged by good news from other countries moving forward on climate action. the international community, including non-state actors, remains committed to implementation of the paris agreement. this was also demonstrated during the hamburg g20 summit held on 7 and 8 july and the recent montreal ministerial meeting on climate action that took place in september. the upcoming conference in bonn will be an important occasion to demonstrate the collective determination of the international community on climate action. the eu and its member states have expectations for broad-ranging progress at cop 23 and we are working closely with our international partners to ensure it is a success. firstly, cop 23 must establish a solid foundation for the completion of the paris work programme by cop 24 next year in katowice, poland. this should include making substantial progress on the work programme with a view to finalising it next year and to preparing for the implementation of all provisions of the paris agreement, comprising mitigation, adaptation, means of implementation, support and the transparency framework. it is important that we achieve clarity on the process for next year, so that all parties and external stakeholders are reassured that we will deliver on our task. we expect an agreement on the 2018 facilitative dialogue at cop 23. the dialogue will be the key political moment at cop 24 and the first opportunity after paris to take stock of our collective efforts towards achieving the objectives of the paris agreement. it will help inform the preparation of subsequent nationally determined contributions or ndcs. therefore the eu considers that cop 23 should result in a clear proposal on how the 2018 facilitative dialogue should be prepared, outlining the work for next year. in this respect non-party stakeholder contributions will be key in terms of presenting policy options, approaches and technologies with high potential, experiences and lessons learned. they also bring concrete opportunities to overcome barriers in ndc implementation and international cooperation, such as partnerships through the global climate action agenda. with regard to the transparency framework, it is important to have comparable and robust methodologies to track progress and make sure that the chosen policy instruments have the desired impact in terms of reducing emissions or increasing resilience. cop 23 should result in significant progress on the details of the modalities, procedures and guidelines of the framework. further action by all parties, individually and collectively, will be required to reorient and make finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate resilient development. the eu and its member states are the world’s biggest climate finance donor. in 2015 it provided, together with the european investment bank, eur 17.6 billion for climate finance to third countries. the eu will continue to support climate action in partner countries and is fully committed to the implementation of the 2020 climate finance roadmap. we remain committed to scaling the mobilisation of climate finance as part of a global effort to assist developing countries to implement their low-carbon sustainable development, and in particular their ndcs. domestic implementation, climate policies and measures to achieve intended nationally determined contributions and their full integration into national policies are of crucial importance. at this stage the council and parliament are the key actors currently working on completion of the eu’s own legislative and regulatory package that is necessary to deliver our paris target of reducing economy-wide emissions by at least 40% by 2030. that remains the most ambitious pledge under the agreement. this is an important sign of leadership as the success of paris will ultimately depend on concrete action on the ground.
member of the commission. – mr president, president juncker stressed in his recent state of the union address that he wants europe to be the leader when it comes to the fight against climate change. he added that, set against the collapse of ambition in the united states, europe must ensure we make our planet great again because it is the shared heritage of all humanity. recently, the european union, canada and china convened a ministerial meeting on climate action. this was the first ministerial meeting of its kind, bringing together three major economies in a leadership role and gathering ministers from more than 30 countries, including both major economies and also some of the most vulnerable countries, to discuss how to advance global action on climate change. for the un climate change conference in bonn (cop23) the european union envisages three broad areas of deliverables. firstly, there should be substantial progress on developing the detailed modalities, procedures and guidelines of the paris agreement with a view to concluding them by 2018. secondly, we need to find political agreement on the design of the ‘facilitative dialogue’ that will take place in 2018. this is a clear deliverable expected by cop23 from the moroccan and fijian presidencies, as was mandated by the decision in marrakech. thirdly, the european union attaches great importance to the global climate action agenda to expand multi—stakeholder action and further build momentum. let me elaborate further on the first deliverable. the paris agreement achieved comprehensive coverage of mitigation, adaptation and means of implementation by treating these and other issues in a balanced and tailored way. the delicate balance set in paris now needs to be made operational through detailed modalities, procedures and guidelines. priority areas to advance are the work programme that includes the paris transparency framework and the five-yearly global stocktake. the transparency framework will make it possible to track progress made on all parties’ commitments, for both adaptation and mitigation as well as support, according to common agreed rules and methodology, and to compare and aggregate results in terms of emission reductions and assess progress towards the global goal on adaptation. the global stocktake is one of the fundamental features of the paris agreement and it is the key element of a wider ambition cycle that will inform and incentivise processes progressively to enhance ambitious action, both domestically and collectively. at european union level, the proposal for the 2030 legislative framework provides for a review in 2024, and every five years thereafter, of the overall functioning of the legislation, in order to take account of evolving national circumstances and to be informed by the results of the global stocktake under the paris agreement. coming back to the second deliverable, the 2018 facilitative dialogue is intended to take stock of the collective efforts of parties in relation to progress towards the long-term emissions reduction goal and inform the preparation of further or updated nationally determined contributions (ndcs). the european union sees the 2018 facilitative dialogue as an important milestone in promoting subsequent discussions about ambition. parties will have to consider and explain what the outcomes of the 2018 facilitative dialogue imply for them individually in terms of their domestic processes. in the context of the insufficient global ambition currently on the table, the commission supports the european union’s active participation in the dialogue as a first important opportunity to take stock of the collective efforts of parties and to demonstrate how we have been preparing for the implementation of our ndc. looking ahead, and to facilitate the preparation of long-term strategies, the commission is preparing an in-depth analysis of the economic, social and environmental impacts of pathways coherent with the long-term temperature goals of the paris agreement in order to stimulate the political debate in the european parliament and the council and with stakeholders. let me give you some further comments on climate finance. the commission participated closely with many member states in the development of the donors’ 2020 usd 100 billion road map. we remain committed to the collective goal of mobilising, from a variety of sources, usd 100 billion a year in climate finance by 2020 for climate action in developing countries, and continuing significantly to increase adaptation finance. however, neither the european union nor any other party acting alone can be expected to fill the gap left by the united states. we need to work collectively and look for innovative solutions and scalability. in that respect the cop21+2 climate summit convened by the french government, the united nations and the world bank in paris on 12 december will usefully complement the cop23 conference and should help us work better together to redirect public and private investments towards the clean energy transition. lastly, looking beyond the amount of finance mobilised, we must also consider the important role of technical cooperation for the implementation of the paris agreement and of ndcs. in that respect, we are mobilising technical support from across europe to share our experience and help partner countries develop and implement climate policies and measures.
let us now hear the statements by the political groups. blue-card questions are not allowed at this stage.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are even a little tired of talking about climate change in this house. cop 23 is important, our resolution is well made and it is equally important for all the reasons that my colleagues have already mentioned. and then we read just these days the figures that in 2016, as in previous years, the member states of the european union gave to fossil fuels: the commission has already proposed a total of eur 112 billion in financing. 112 billion that are a little bit stuck in the past and do not allow us to move forward towards change. we don't even know if this number is correct because there is no transparency about these grants or subsidies. so it could be even a partial figure and the amount could be even more. but we know that 44% of this money goes to the transport sector, for example. this has allowed and allows sergio marchionne of fca to say that electric cars are the double-edged sword and that it is preferable to improve gasoline engines instead. of course, electric cars are not the only solution, we know that too, but if marchionne can say this, it is precisely because the market is being altered by subsidies that are given through public money. the european union contributes 4 billion directly, plus the european investment bank and the international bank for reconstruction and development: if that sounds like a small amount, it's five times what we spend in a single year, from 2014 to 2020, on welcoming migrants. so what exactly are we talking about when we talk about fighting climate change?
we have listened to all the political groups. from now on, you can use the blue-card questions.
mr president, i have been listening to my colleagues’ beautiful words about the future of our countries and the future of our children, and i think they have been the best words we can say in such circumstances. my question is, how many of you really want to pass from words to facts? because it is a fact that climate change and global warming are caused by fossil fuels. however, while we are here, among the best words we can say to save the planet, the governments of the member states are financing fossil fuels with an incredible – an astronomical – amount of money. while we are here speaking, france is giving eur 250 million to the green fund but at the same time financing fossil fuels to the tune of eur 1.5 billion. germany is giving eur 250 million to the green fund but at the same time financing fossil fuels to the tune of eur 5.5 billion. and italy, my country, while contributing only eur 84 million to the green fund, is at the same time financing fossil fuels with eur 3.5 billion. we are here to find the best solution to save the planet and not to find the best compromise with oil companies. therefore, let us stop saying beautiful words and let us move on to facts. let us eliminate subsidies for fossil fuels right now. there is nothing else to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution we reaffirm our commitment to implementing the paris agreement on climate change with strength and consistency, whether trump is in it or not. a new model of development, more sustainable economically, environmentally and socially, is needed to emerge from the crisis and to produce new and good jobs for our young people. the european target of reducing emissions by 40% by 2030 requires commitments across all sectors of the economy and at all institutional levels, from states to local communities. in particular, in transport, which accounts for 25% of global emissions, a gap in heavy vehicles needs to be closed quickly: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in his encyclical laudato si', which is also quoted in the resolution we are about to adopt, pope francis writes: 'god always forgives man; he always forgives us; he always forgives us.' "sometimes nature is unforgiving". and in fact, just look at what's happening today: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of water in the community. these are facts. so we don't have to bother with science to name this. but we must act and act quickly. climate change is not a problem that we can think about moving into the future, because we are already seeing its effects. and if we don't act, change will impact our communities far more than we think, causing social costs but also economic damage to people and entire production systems. we have a great responsibility. we must accelerate europe's transition to a sustainable, low-carbon and circular economy and involve, as europe, other global players in this process, including those who today are willing to tear up the charter of the paris agreement and yet put our future and that of future generations at risk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement is irreversible and cannot be waived, and in the fight against climate change, cop 23 in bonn must be a key stage in completing the detailed arrangements for implementing the agreement by 2018. the roadmap to mobilize $100 billion by 2020 for climate action in developing countries is just a starting point. the steady increase in eu climate finance is not satisfactory and does not guarantee the achievement of the objective of: an ambitious commitment from governments and public and private finance firms, banks, pension funds and insurance companies is needed to align lending and investment practices with the goal of keeping temperature rise well below 2%, and to move away from investments in fossil fuels. specific public guarantees for green investments are needed, as well as certifications and tax benefits for green investment funds and for the issuance of green bonds. i mean, we have to get from words to action.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a scandal because more than 21 000 flights have been cancelled. millions of passengers are stranded, mostly in remote areas and on islands. why is that? because it's a monopoly. this, gentlemen, is a monopoly at the expense of the citizens. made of what? with the money of citizens, in fact, of taxpayers, with the contributions that regions and municipalities give to ryanair to maintain flights on their territories. the european commission is investigating. consumers must be protected, but we believe that they must not only be reimbursed, but compensated. but we must also pay attention to the protection of workers' rights, because we want to know whether the rest period proposed by the company in return for financial compensation is in line with full respect for the psychophysical condition of ryanair workers. the european union cannot turn back, nor can it turn the other way: i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the european parliament's budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over the last 15 years the governments of the member states have sold out the european airspace, filling the pockets of the irish airline, extending concessions, subsidies more or less disguised as operating aid, especially to smaller airports, those which were struggling to maintain sufficient passenger traffic, and all this in defiance of the rules on competition. it is the various member states that have allowed the proliferation of an airline, which has made precarious work its watchword. after years of giving away almost free flights all over europe - and we know who paid for it - ryanair has now gone bankrupt: but it is not just national governments that are the architects of the current crisis. how many times has the commission washed its hands of the innumerable violations reported by this parliament? how many times has it ignored our questions about ryanair's tax evasion and illegal state aid, dumping the burden of responsibility on the national courts. for 20 years the european union has left the posting of workers in limbo, and for 20 years each state has interpreted these rules as it wishes: the cost of your indifference is now the rights of passengers, who have been smashed with a click, and of workers in the industry, not only those in the low-cost airlines, but also those in the airlines. not to mention the damage to national social security systems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i must say that i am very impressed by the discussion on the ryanair scandal. i am very impressed because in parliament and in the committees on which i work - the committee on industry, research and energy, the committee on transport and tourism - we often find ourselves debating how to protect the european market and protect the high performance of our companies in terms of protecting the market itself, protecting the lives of workers, protecting users and in this case passengers. we defend ourselves against those who are outside the market, that is, against those who do not respect the rules of competition. and we should! however, in this case we find ourselves in a paradoxical situation because, as usual, when we talk about companies, we are dealing with the customer, the worker and the company itself. as far as the passengers are concerned, we said: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of equal treatment to all types of transport. on the other hand, the workers have lodged an appeal, the court has ruled, and they therefore have every latitude to create the conditions for their work to be protected and for them to work in conditions which guarantee a fair service. at this point, let's talk about the company. i'm not used to pre-trial proceedings, but it seems the airline has created unfair competition by taking jobs and misleading passengers. well, then, what is our job? our task is not to make a trial but to ensure that everyone works under conditions whereby we can still say that europe is the biggest market in the world. but the world's largest market has to take all these factors into account and it seems that in this case it has not been done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a member of the committee on transport and tourism and i am well aware of the matter we are dealing with today. i am keen to see transport at competitive rates to provide a more accessible service and to develop tourism, a sector which is giving us a lot of satisfaction. but it is not enough to have a good market share to be a leader in the aviation sector: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are legitimate doubts on these points, and it is urgent that the commission should provide the necessary clarity and speed. it 's about the pilots ' unused vacation: are we really sure that these are the reasons and that there are not other reasons? as for the cancelled flights, the rules are clear: no downward transactions will be accepted. whoever causes a damage must pay it in full. finally, i ask that the revision of the passenger rights regulation, which has been stalled in the council since february 2014, be brought forward. we must give passengers greater protection and keep up with the times.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cancellation of flights by ryanair throughout europe is causing great inconvenience to european citizens. the reason for this is, in my view, the social dumping which this company is recklessly inflicting on its employees in an attempt to undermine competition. it is worth remembering that just yesterday the british low-cost carrier monarch, which has been in operation since 1968, went bankrupt. the current approach to the internal market in this area probably needs to be reconsidered, as do the european rules for passenger protection. the commission must shed light on the way in which airlines inform travellers. it appears that ryanair notifies flight cancellations between 48 hours and 6 hours before departure time: i do not think that is a sufficiently large margin of appreciation. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on the same day as the agreement with ryanair.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have dealt with the subject of endocrine disruptors in this house, and it will not be the last. we all know, for example, that the european regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market provides that an active substance can only be authorized if it does not adversely affect the endocrine system. i believe that the commission's proposal to identify endocrine disruptors goes beyond the powers conferred on it, because it arbitrarily restricts the field of interference and is therefore unsuitable for ensuring adequate protection of human health and the environment. such a decision should be preceded by an amendment to the plant protection products regulation, which can only be done through a normal legislative process and therefore with the approval of parliament and the council. but there 's more: the commission's proposal does not include a category of suspected endocrine disruptors and cross-references, where two or more disruptors are present at the same time, is an unacceptable shortcoming. we cannot continue to put the economic interests of large industrial groups ahead of the health of the european citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have completed this review of european maritime transport legislation, with the excellent concerted work of parliament, the commission and the council. i thank all my colleagues on the committee on transport and tourism, the representatives of the european commission, the representatives of the maltese presidency of the council for their fruitful and constructive work. maritime safety is a vital issue for all european passengers and it is essential that we work towards achieving ever higher standards in the member states, while respecting all the international standards defined within the imo. it is therefore important that all the rules adopted are consistent and effective and that europe always maintains a proactive and leading role in this respect. parliament and the council welcomed the commission's proposal for revision and simplification, aimed at clarifying the various areas covered by the existing legislation and removing the ambiguities which created problems in the implementation and transposition of the rules. we agreed to exclude from the scope of the directive a number of categories of vessels for which the implementation of the prescribed standards was considered to be disproportionate. i am referring in particular to passenger ships of less than 24 metres in length, service ships carrying workers to offshore installations, and sailing ships, provided they are equipped with auxiliary mechanical propulsion. i think it was important to clarify and include the concept of aluminium as an equivalent material. it is important that this should be done, as we have to take into account the inherent properties of the material and the need to compare them with the fire resistance of similar materials. aluminium is to be considered as a material equivalent to steel: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers in the event of accidents and fires is not compromised. however, as a parliament we have insisted very strongly that there should be no safety grey areas for the excluded categories. that is why we have stressed the need for a commitment by the commission and the member states to work, both at national and imo level, to ensure that safety is always guaranteed. another important point for us, which emerged from the work of parliament and was also taken up in the negotiations with the council, was the importance given to the human element and the linking of the social dimension of workers directly to safety on board. the conditions affecting the life of the crew and the social aspects affect the efficiency and effectiveness of the prevention of risks, problems and accidents. it is important that this link should become a constant and be transversal in all transport policies of the european union. that is why i am asking the commissioner to make this point in future legislative initiatives. only if the workers are working under optimal conditions will passengers be able to enjoy adequate safety standards. another important point for parliament was transparency: we have insisted that any exemptions, equivalence and additional security measures be published on a publicly accessible website and we have also managed to reach agreement with the maltese presidency on this. we have accepted requests from some member states to protect national specificities, in some cases of a geographical nature, in others linked to employment and work. we have therefore managed to reach an agreement with the council, knowing that the provisions adopted by this house must always be an added value for the member states and not a detrimental element, as has unfortunately sometimes happened in the past. in conclusion, i hope that this procedure for reviewing the legislation in force in the maritime sector will bring real benefits to passengers, workers, companies in the sector and, more generally, to the issue of transport safety in europe. i hope that the commission will continue to monitor closely the development of the rules adopted to ensure that european citizens are always held to high standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the tasks we have as legislators is to check the impact of the rules we propose and, if necessary, to revise them later to make them more flexible. and that is precisely what is happening with the regulations concerning the safety of passenger ships. simplification, in addition to meeting the changing needs of the sector, is the means by which we can also achieve greater transparency and make these ships safer. i therefore fully agree with the exemption of vessels under 24 metres from the scope of the legislation and also with the equalisation of aluminium and equivalent materials with steel. as regards inspections, a lot has changed since 1999 and it is therefore appropriate to strengthen this regime by combining it with the 2006 legislation. finally, as regards the system for registering passengers on board ships, they agree to the timely transmission of data, i.e. 15 minutes after the ship has left port, by means of a common electronic system. the sadly known cases of shipwrecks and fires on board, in which many people have lost their lives in recent years, could not have been avoided, but knowing the number of passengers on board in a timely manner and the possible presence of people with special mobility needs, would perhaps have helped us to save more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the three proposals for directives on passenger ship safety have common objectives, which are essentially to improve maritime transport legislation, to standardise safety procedures and to introduce the use of digital technologies in the management of passenger flows. the work on the rationalisation of legislation through refit should focus on removing the uncertainties that still exist today, for example regarding the classification of risk areas at sea, safety inspections and digital recording of passenger data, and by providing effective tools for industry and authorities, while respecting sensitive passenger data. in this respect, it is important to give value to the role and competence of emsa, the maritime safety agency, which has been carrying out complex and sensitive tasks in recent years, especially in the mediterranean basin. 2017 is the european maritime year: there is no better opportunity to give the sector a new impetus by making maritime transport a vital part of the european union's economy.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for his appreciation of the work done, for his statement of appreciation, and i also thank all my colleagues, including those who have rightly left us. this dossier, when it was voted in committee, was almost unanimous and so, from the way the debate has developed and from the way things seem to be going, i hope that there will be a positive development tomorrow too because, precisely, the safety of european citizens is at stake and so i think that the value of the excellent work done should be recognized. i would also like to thank the other rapporteurs on the two reports, because we have worked together and it has been a real pleasure to work with two colleagues of this calibre.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 19 and 20 october.
i do not think it is appropriate to discuss the german elections while the next european council is being discussed. but if you really want an answer on this point, i welcomed mr schulz's decision to take note of the end of the grand coalition in germany, as we did here in the european parliament a few months ago. that doesn't mean we can't work together: it's one thing to have a strong, true dialectic between the right and the left, the moderate conservatives and the progressives, and it's another thing to have grand coalitions. we have shown yesterday, on the question of the recognition of china as a market economy, that parliament, while maintaining this strong dialectic, can work together and we have achieved a great result, defending european industries and european workers. i would like to thank the comrades and colleagues in the socialist group who have played a crucial role, starting with mr mosca, mr maurel and mr bernd lange. i have heard comforting words from frans timmermans, first vice-president, which are in line with the report by president juncker, and i want to say to the european commission: the socialists are ready, they've always been ready! when it comes to action and doing, we are ready; when it comes to having courage, we're ready! we're not ready and we're against it when he puts his head in the sand. we must challenge the council together, in a constructive way, but in a clear way. on immigration we expect convincing answers. the fact that we have reduced flows by 80% cannot reassure us that the root causes of migration flows have been eliminated; rather, we must use this stage to address the root causes that are driving thousands and thousands of people to come to europe and we must not confuse causes with effects and misuse the treatment. the solution cannot be to force europe and africa into a fortress. therapy cannot be about building new walls! i say to the council and i say to the commission: the idea of creating new frontiers, of strengthening the internal frontiers of the european states, of extending the time at these frontiers is the wrong weapon to deal with a serious problem which is that of terrorism. it is legitimate for the member states to have effective instruments in the fight against terrorism, but do not be fooled into thinking that aspirin is the cure for a serious problem! aspirin can cause stomach ulcers: the internal frontiers can abolish one of europe's great achievements, which is the free movement of people within the european union. and be careful not to turn hotspots, which are a tool for emergency management of flows, into a tool for ordinary management of migration flows. it's not fair, it's not helpful, it's not effective to do these things. in the past few days we have called on president tusk to finally give bulgaria and romania, and in due course croatia, the right to join the schengen area, and to finally reform the dublin regulation: parliament is doing its job as usual and the council must start its own! we can 't say: "europe is not working". i'm not going. the commission has made a proposal and parliament is dealing with it. it is the council that has not opened the file! that's the truth. we want to say it loud and clear: when the council opens it, i'll say: the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement, but it is a party to the schengen agreement, and it is not a party to the schengen agreement. finally, africa. mr weber also spoke of this: i'm glad, because this idea is spreading that africa is our priority. two years ago, the trust fund was launched in valletta. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak. but the member states that have contributed to that fund have been very few: i say to the council representative here: take care of it! africa is not a slogan: africa is a subject that needs answers. well the 44 billion investment plan: but those investments must be channelled and targeted at interventions that actually create development and create jobs, because that is what it takes to give a future to african girls and boys and also to reduce migration flows. i am increasingly convinced that africa is the solution to our global and local challenges. i would like to conclude with a beautiful quote by fatou diome. "we must stop with the hypocrisy: we'll be rich together or we'll all drown together".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have heard general words about terrorism and immigration which are completely inconclusive. the next council meeting, however, which is taking place a few hours after the events in catalonia, excludes this subject from the discussions. the liberal group member said that every month we should reflect on europe and the future of europe. the debate we are having at the moment is a debate on the future of europe because it sees on the one hand - that is, all of us who were fascists, anti-democrats, etc. - all of us standing up for the catalan people, or at least for their legitimate desire to be able to vote, and on the other hand the representatives of the socialist and popular super-party that governs this europe of bureaucrats, banks and multinationals, which supports police action. a police force that would do well to continue to deal with terrorism, perhaps even illegal immigrants, instead of beating up - as i have seen for myself - peaceful people, without party flags, who have been for hours in the rain to exercise their right to vote. then it is clear which way.... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first item on the agenda of this council is emigration: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. the common asylum system is still a long way from what it should be, namely a real mechanism for mandatory, preventive and permanent redistribution, so that solidarity is not just talk. the shameful conditions in the libyan camps are bad for our democracy: we strongly believe that there is monitoring, that there is intervention by the united nations and the european union to address what is unfortunately happening on the ground, namely kidnappings, physical violence, slavery, rape, including of pregnant women, and torture. this is unacceptable. we also want to see that when we talk about turkey, we finally acknowledge that the path chosen by erdogan is very far from what the rule of law should be and from the fundamental principles of the union, and that the accession negotiations are closed once and for all, which are increasingly resembling a farce in which even the main actors no longer believe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with a brief introduction. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i find it scandalous that there is that part of the extreme left that exploits, in an ideological way, real suffering, a drama. we have to be facilitators of dialogue. shame on you! you are an ideological and anti-democratic party. we must encourage dialogue for the benefit of the whole spanish people. we all want to offer solidarity to this great people, who will surely find their way out through dialogue, harmony, peace, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. shame on you! and now back to the council. we must therefore work for a stronger, more democratic europe, as you said, mr vice-president, we all agree, we are all here, we have this task. there are many signs, some of them positive: we need to strengthen them and work on those. there is no doubt that the first of these conditions is safety. and that is precisely why we have always been in favour of a common european defence as a political party. only if europe has its own foreign policy, its own common policy, will it not only be able to defend its citizens better, but will it finally be able to play the geopolitical role that awaits us, sitting among the great men of the earth, and not as we do today, where we are a little bit behind, behind, behind or reacting. no, we are a great story, a great civilization! we must take our place in the world with our values. we still have an open wound, as weber said, which is immigration. i also want to thank the whole of parliament, including mr cicu, for putting these anti-dumping rules into effect, because we need a common industrial policy to solve the problem of unemployment, especially among young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our future is europe. yesterday was the fourth anniversary of the lampedusa massacre: it was october 3, 2013, and what remains in my memory is not just the number of victims, but the image of that tragedy. that day, we all said together: i'm not going to do that again. since then, we have been committed to replacing cynicism and selfishness with solidarity in defense of life. yet the situation has almost returned to what it was before. something's not right. something went wrong. immigration is not a phenomenon that can be stopped, but it is a phenomenon that can be managed. the reduction in flows, as president pittella has said, cannot reassure us. it's the root causes that drive people to leave their countries. we are also working seriously with the council to give a comprehensive response to the migration phenomenon and the results achieved so far have been made possible by the role of co-legislator of parliament, which is currently drawing up its position on the dublin reform. and we do not hide behind our divisions and our political differences. we are moving forward because we believe in a solid reform of the system... (president interrupts speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has accepted the digital challenge, but now the question is how to meet it. first of all: the digital single market must be completed as soon as possible, because it is a matter of social and civil importance, as has been said, as well as economic. the abolition of roaming has been a tangible progress and appreciated by the citizens but we cannot afford to take years and years to complete the digital single market. secondly: we need to build the infrastructure from broadband to 5g deployment. thirdly: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the european union. statistics tell us that there is a huge, terrible gap between the skills that exist in the market and the skills that would be needed. so investing in training, as well as in infrastructure, i think is the way to guarantee good employment, as mrs berès said. fourth: we need to find the funding, taxing digital companies the right way. tax evasion by the web giants on the one hand, and europe's digital backlog on the other, are two sides of the same coin. and we can't solve one without the other. finally, we must be aware that the development and proper management of digital technologies is a central issue for security and defence.
the debate is closed. the sitting is adjourned until 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report the rapporteur proposes to introduce a requirement for the digital recording of passenger data by means of harmonised administrative procedures, in order to facilitate search and rescue operations in an emergency. i have decided to support the work of mrs bilbao, because of the particular attention paid to the protection of passenger data and to their destruction when they are no longer needed. one aspect, the protection of citizens' rights and data, is very dear to the movement. i am pleased to see that our proposal to add the date of birth and a contact number to the required data has been accepted, thus contributing to greater clarity in the identification. as regards certain exemptions, although we have requested that they be made accessible through the creation of a public online database, the transparency of the exemptions is nevertheless ensured by their accessibility to the public. i thank her for her work and i welcome her efforts to ensure that the rights of european passengers are better guaranteed.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr riquet for the work he has done on this report, which aims to remove the uncertainty arising from the coexistence of two directives on ship inspection, the 1999 and 2009 directives respectively. the proposal aims to remove certain uncertainties related to the timing of inspections of ro-ro ferries and fast passenger craft used in scheduled services by the competent authorities. two aspects which are particularly close to my heart are the safety of passengers and the social aspects of these inspections. as far as passenger safety is concerned, i have decided to support the work of my colleague, because the text guarantees high safety standards, the simplification of the previous directives does not affect passenger rights in this way. as regards social aspects, the inspections provided for in this new directive take account of the working environment and personal life on board, thus combining greater attention to safety with the necessary respect for workers and their rights.
the debate is appropriate. i think we must show respect for the european commission and the chairmen of the groups who will be speaking. all the groups will have a chance to speak, so all the positions of the whole parliament will be expressed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the constitution, rule of law and fundamental rights in spain in the light of the events in catalonia (2017/2888(rsp)).
i believe that this is the time for unity and responsibility, not for divisions, not for flags, not for typhus, but for prudence and wisdom. let 's forget who we belong to for a moment . we have to say one word: stop the car! sometimes all it takes is one move to change the course of history. and when you're on the edge of the abyss, it's just a matter of time before you fall into the abyss. but it is not enough to make a gesture of reason and goodwill to get the dialogue going again, as first vice-president frans timmermans has asked for. i would like to begin by addressing the government of the generalitat of catalonia. and i say this explicitly: a unilateral declaration of independence would be a further provocation and would add fuel to the fire after sunday's useless referendum: a unilateral plebiscite imposed in open violation of the democratic constitution and the rule of law. a regional government representing less than 50% cannot affect the future of an entire people. the referendum was not legal, as many of us have said, and this is not a legal argument. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process for the last 50 years, and it is not the council that is responsible for the peace process. and we should look less superficially at the return of nationalism in europe. when the flag of secession is waved, when identities tend to exclude rather than include, you know where you start but you don't know where you end. some of you will remember the phrase uttered by françois mitterrand in his last speech to the european parliament: "nationalism is war". it's war! i will never give up the idea that we can be catalan, spanish and european at the same time, without the need to create new states, new frontiers and there is an indissoluble thread that binds catalonia, spain, spain, europe: europe was born to reconcile the peoples. europe was born to bring unity and peace. in these days, while spain is discussing secession, germany is celebrating the anniversary of german reunification. the reconciliation: that is the reason for the european union. we were born for this and that is why we europeans must do everything possible to get out of this impasse. we must do so not only because spain is part of us, but because we are - or must be - the defenders of europe, of the essence of europe, of the dna of europe. i also want to address the prime minister, mariano rajoy, without wanting to be controversial: i say with intellectual honesty that the handling of this crisis could and should have been different. the spanish and catalan socialists have put forward serious and workable proposals, including the possibility of amending the constitution. it can be changed, but with its own tools, not in defiance of common laws and rules: this is how it works in a state of law: by following the law. we may have different opinions, but no democrat can take credit for the police charges and the riots last sunday. and when there is a disproportionate police force, there is always a failure of policy. now we need a regenerative effort. we need a fresh start. and i want to appeal to the catalan authorities: i would ask the house not to declare independence tonight because this declaration could lead to new clashes and new disasters. the appeal is jointly addressed to prime minister rajoy, that together with the other spanish political forces, he should continue with all his strength the dialogue, because spain needs its integrity and its unity: the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. that's our mission.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, perhaps you will allow me to reiterate that, for the european union as a whole to function, respect for the rule of law is important. if you believe that because you feel passionately about something you can then say ‘because i feel so passionately i get to say what the rule of law is’ and you can also say ‘i feel so passionately i can ignore the rule of law’, then be aware of the fact that what you think works for you now can be used against you by others who, perhaps, might feel as passionate about their position. the rule of law in our union is the only thing that protects the weak from the power of the powerful. the rule of law is the only thing that protects what is small from what is big. the rule of law is the only way we can create a union of member states and citizens where big does not dominate small, where there is equal treatment before the law of every single citizen wherever they come from. (applause) i detect, in some of the discourses by political movements who feel deeply inspired by populist nationalism, that democracy is portrayed as a tool you can use against the rule of law, that because you are a majority the minority no longer exists. the rule of law is enshrined in the eu treaties, signed by sovereign member states, ratified by national parliaments and thus conferring the protection of the law on every single european citizen. i insist on this today because i know you also debated the political side, the violence and everything else, and i would refer to what was said by guy verhofstadt about that. from the institutional position of the commission, however, i have to insist on this point of the rule of law. i say this also because there is no doubt – not in this chamber, and not even among those who are extremely critical – that the referendum held on sunday was not within the remit of the rule of law. there is also no doubt that the only way forward is dialogue, and there is also no doubt that spain is a country where the rule of law is respected, where the institutions are independent and where there are no impediments whatsoever for a dialogue to start immediately. the only thing you need is political will.
i thank the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, for the clear position expressed in this house. in the light of the debate which has just taken place and in order to sum up the position expressed by the majority of parliament, i would like to stress a few fundamental points: as the history of the european union teaches us, in a democracy the only way forward is to work together for harmony and unity. no one, no one, liked what happened on sunday. but unilateral decisions, including the declaration of independence by a member state, are contrary to the european legal order and are designed to cause dangerous divisions. this parliament is calling for calm and profound reflection, for dialogue in spain, respecting the constitutional framework, including the statute of autonomy of catalonia, and for the return of politics to the institutions. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. what happened in catalonia speaks of a history of political inadequacy and institutional arrogance, of violation of laws and civil rights, before political ones. in other words, a shameful episode in the heart of civilized europe. it is civil because we live in a state governed by the rule of law, we have a system and laws which are the reference points of our political and institutional action, and not just mere inspirational principles. but it is also very civil because it is democratic, because there is freedom of speech, of thought, of demonstration - as legally an unconstitutional referendum should be abolished - against which any use of violence is an abuse, an unacceptable repression, which i do not think will remain without consequences. and in the midst of all this, the deafening silence of the european institutions, which should not and must not take sides but certainly cannot ignore the problem without attempting mediation. mediation must still be possible before the situation gets out of hand and degenerates further. europe also has its own reference texts, which say that spain is a member of the union and that the charter of fundamental rights, although not incorporated into the treaties, has the same legal value as the treaties.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the fiscal compact and therefore the subtraction of the sovereignty of the peoples and their subjugation through economic constraint. to do that, we have to go back a little bit to prehistory: the year is 1972. we start with the monetary snake, the first failed attempt to control the exchange rate of currencies, and then we succeed in implementing it in 1979 with the ems. the following year: the italians will remember it well; it is the year of the separation between the bank of italy and the treasury by two federalists, and architects of this european union, ciampi and andreatta, who handed over control of our public debt to the financial market. 1992: the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then, in 1999, the euro arrived, wanted by prodi who declared: "we'll work one day less and earn as if we'd worked one day more". the truth is that they have deprived us of monetary leverage, without telling us that they would take away our freedom of self-determination. and here we are in 2012: the year in which 25 of the 28 member states sign the fiscal compact, making the principle of budgetary equilibrium and the 60% debt-to-gdp ratio contained in maastricht binding. in 2012, governments agreed to a five-year timetable to discuss the issue. the five years are due to expire in three months' time and citizens could find themselves under the christmas tree with yet another surrender of sovereignty, because the fiscal compact will become legally superior to national legislation and will make liberal and austerity policies irreversible. the fiscal compact takes the single debt trap as the indisputable framework within which to build the cage for social and labour rights and the privatisation of common goods. if governments stick to the fiscal compact, my country, for example, will be obliged over the next 20 years to bring the debt-to-gdp ratio from the current 133% to 60% through a reckless cut in public welfare spending, and above all, medieval treatment for pensions and workers' rights. this is the balance of the budget provided for by the fiscal compact and inserted into the italian constitution with a coup d'état in 2011, by the hand of professor monti. greece is the greatest success of the euro, supported by parties such as the democratic party and forza italia, which are active in the european parliament among socialists and popularists, who have forever bound the democracy of my country to the will of brussels. many of you with your cameras on keep saying you are against these austerity principles but you are only doing it to collect votes: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you want to turn the european stability mechanism into the european monetary fund, you want to institutionalize that perverse and blackmailing system so that the states are crushed by the troika. you want to institutionalize this. you ask us to put our money into the european stability mechanism and then you lend it to us to pay unsustainable and above all illegitimate financial interests. all orchestrated by a super minister of the eurozone who will tell the bad people of the periphery what reforms tears and blood must implement. so what are balanced budgets and fiscal compact? they are simply a shameless blackmailing of the rights of the peoples of europe, contrary to the principles of our constitutions and the treaty of lisbon itself, on which this whole european union should be based. but all this can be stopped by the end of the year: the member states will have to decide on the fate of the fiscal compact. this parliament has a moral duty to give a negative signal to unsustainable and depressing austerity policies. we weren't there in 2012: today, yes, and we know that our government will humiliate its citizens again. we ask this parliament to support our fight to tear the fiscal compact apart once and for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fiscal compact is a treaty that is wrong twice: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's right, mr. starbatty, for the fiscal compact to throw money at women and alcohol, as dijsselbloem unfortunately said, is the same thing as the new deal of franklin delano roosevelt: there is no difference that is, a view, precisely, that decades of economic culture in the twentieth century have helped to overcome and, moreover, it dismisses the concept of aggregate fiscal position of the euro area, as well as denying the fact that an economic policy is not conducted only on the rules, on the automatic pilot, but needs an economic government. this is all the more so since economic and monetary union does not have a serious common budget worthy of the name, which would justify greater rigour at the level of the member states. moreover, this approach, as is well known - perhaps the five star movement ignores it - is also present in the stability and growth pact, which is the real source of the rules we were talking about. we have been opposed to this view over the years and have fought for a flexible application of the rules of the stability pact. and if we are now seeing a recovery and a reduction in the deficit, as niedermayer said, it is precisely because we have applied flexibility to rules which were, on the contrary, too rigid and antiquated. and yet, it is equally clear that we need to build better rules: it's not enough that we just find ways to apply them more intelligently every year. and in this sense, the real problem is not the fiscal compact, also because there is an article 2 - i will explain it to you - which explains that it must in any case comply with any changes in the laws of the union, but it is the stability pact and we ask that it be improved, changed, that a 'golden rule' be introduced, which distinguishes between investment and current expenditure and that the concept of the aggregate fiscal position of the euro area be introduced. we therefore believe that the commission would do well to use its time more effectively, to work on building up the fiscal capacity of the euro area and improving the rules of the stability pact. if this is not the case, and integration is proposed, it is clear that the democratic party in italy and in the council will veto it, unless there are profound changes in the content of the fiscal compact.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that mr gualtieri has left, because i would have liked to remind him that his party not only supported the fiscal compact but also supported maastricht and the stability and growth pact. so it's a bit ridiculous, after 20 years, to come and apologize, and after the damage done to the poor italians. as far as the fiscal compact is concerned, this is the essence of the european union: the death of the state and democracy. it is folly to think that the budget of a state is managed like the budget of a family: it means ignorance and not understanding how a state budget works. you have led us to believe that the problem and the cause of the crisis were public debt and deficits. no, it's not the public debt; the public debt has been a consequence of the evil deeds of the asymmetry that the euro has brought within the european union. i 'm not saying that . this is coming from people you think are credible and sensible. this is what the vice president of the european central bank, constâncio, this is what the president of the central bank, mario draghi, this is what the chief economist of the ecb and one of the senior executives of the ecb, benoît cœuré, say: a state that has monetary sovereignty, that has the power to print the currency in which its debt is denominated, can always support its debt. go to the ecb's website: these studies and these talks are public. today we cannot support this system: within europe, within these rules you die. the only way is to return to monetary sovereignty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to include the fiscal compact in the treaties is sheer folly. the fiscal compact has made italy even more enslaved to the diktats of brussels and the troika. we are tired of the imposition of europe and the central state: we want to be free to use our money for our citizens. our regions, our municipalities and our territories have the right to use this money, which is our money, not europe's, brussels' or berlin's. let me give you an example. my region of veneto and lombardy have the highest tax arrears in europe. it is the regions that pay more but receive less from the state. we pay more than anyone else, but we can't use our own money. on october 22nd, veneto and lombardy will vote in the referendum for autonomy: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. official and legal referendums, sanctioned by the constitution, which aim to keep more economic resources on our territory: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. this is the direction we must take in italy and in europe to govern better and to create development and well-being for our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a committed europeanist i agree with those who have said that the treaty is in force but is not a community treaty and therefore excludes this parliament and the community institutions from any power. so the discussion must take place and it must also be clear that the current review will have to define new parameters which take account of the current scenario. when the fiscal compact was ratified by national governments, states and parliaments, the european economy was in a disastrous situation: i remember the spreads going up by hundreds and hundreds of points and so the risk of real state failures was on the horizon. today the economy is recovering, thanks to the great efforts that have been made. austerity measures are not enough, they must be forgotten. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. it is only if there is a budget for the euro area, which will allow growth and employment to be boosted, that the question of debt reduction, which is certainly necessary, can be tackled, but in a framework which does not create poverty and hostility towards the european institutions. thirty seconds, mr president, because i was personally insulted. to mr valli, who is not honorable, i will answer on social media that it is the only thing he knows ..... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, as head of the five star movement delegation, i reserve the right to ask what statements mrs bresso made when she addressed my delegation, and i would like to know from the recordings whether the insults she made to us when her colleague mr gualtieri was speaking correspond to what you said, because i reserve the right to act on behalf of my delegation. no one has offended you! i would like to ask you to behave in a manner which is appropriate to this house and to the citizens whom you also represent.
mr president, in order to deal with rule 664, mrs mercedes bresso said in her speech that i had insulted her at the beginning, when my debate was being held. as for me, i have revised my speech and i have not made any insult. so i would like you to watch the recording of this debate and say that i have not insulted anyone, because i respect all the members who are here.
in writing. the very serious economic, social and political crisis the european union is going through has been aggravated by austerity policies which have had strong pro-cyclical effects and have generated unsustainable levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality, especially in the peripheral euro area countries. in this sense, the fearful incorporation of the 'fiscal compact' into the legal order of the union, with all that this entails in terms of budgetary constraints enforceable before the court of justice, represents a very serious danger that must be counteracted. we believe that the fiscal compact commits governments to pursuing budgetary targets that are technically unrealistic and economically, politically and socially unsustainable, because the austerity measures that will be necessary as a result of its unfortunate inclusion in the eu's system will be so drastic as to fuel a further recession and a consequent disenchantment of citizens with the eu. i therefore fully share the alarm raised by my colleague, mr marco valli, and i join him in calling on the european parliament to support our fight against the fiscal compact.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the court of auditors for its report which every year gives us the means to assess the expenditure on european union funds. we note the decrease in errors, although we must say that many of these errors, which very often are errors which are cited as bureaucratic procedures, misplaced and misreported, in fact, then, underneath there may have been real fraud, such as procurement procedures which favour certain companies over others, and perhaps the inclusion of ineligible expenditure and lack of supporting documents. and that is only part of it, because the european commission, as you know, simply takes these documents and pays the bills. he doesn't have the ability, obviously, to control everything. and everything, as i understand it, is delegated to the member states, which i invite, of course, precisely to avoid the commission telling us what we have to do, to create a more transparent system and control of certification on the funds. because in all the countries i have visited over the years, especially in the delegations' trips, i have noticed that this system is very much based on a conflict of interest, where the certifying and supervisory authorities are then appointed by the policy itself, as is logical, but at the same time, in many cases, it is precisely the lack of transparency or the lack of transparency that creates the situation. so it is up to the member states, in my view, to act now to prevent a commission from interfering in the use of these funds in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european court of auditors is not sending you to say: it clearly tells us that there are financial resources which should not have been provided by the european union because they are not being used in accordance with the rules and, for the most part, in the areas of natural resources, i.e. rural development, the environment, climate action and fisheries, and economic, social and territorial cohesion. europe has made a lot of mistakes in payments. mistakes made with public money. what mistakes? the absence of essential documentation, ineligible expenditure, conflicts of interest and irregularities in procurement. there is another important aspect which the court has emphasized, namely the complexity of the financing mechanisms, which has continued to increase. the commission justified the massive increase in the number of actors and instruments involved in financing the implementation of european policies and programmes by the need to tackle new challenges such as immigration, brexit and climate change. honestly, we can't find the connection. but the court is in such difficulty in managing, monitoring and reporting expenditure, with the real risk in the future of not being able to understand how the money is actually spent. the commission notes that the financial instruments were not used for the purpose of the sale of the assets of the bank. moreover, the court notes, one of the main advantages of these instruments, namely the ability to use funds more than once, has not been fully exploited. in conclusion, therefore, there are too many dark spots, too many errors in the accounts of the union budget. we must take action and avoid repeating practices which have produced anything but encouraging results. the union, which so often speaks of transparency and efficiency, has a duty to use the money of european citizens correctly and effectively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank you, mr president of the court of auditors, for presenting today the annual report which we are all waiting for because it gives us a precise picture of the use of the union's budget. the fact that the court is increasingly focusing on performance data in its analysis is of fundamental importance to the european co-legislators, because it helps us to set priorities in the choices and, in some cases, necessary changes to the various union policies, particularly those relating to the structural funds. it is certainly comforting to know that there has been an improvement in the overall financial framework, a sign that the reforms demanded in the past by this parliament, if properly implemented, can contribute to a steady improvement in the union's budget and its implementation, with a steadily decreasing error rate, as we have seen. i would also like to stress the importance of a specific audit in the areas of citizens' security, whose budget, although it represents a relatively small part of the union's budget, is nevertheless one of the fundamental instruments of support for the member states. one final thought: the qualified opinion provided by the court as a result of its audit activity on the use of the union budget for 2016 is of particularly significant value, i feel i can say, because it contributes, albeit indirectly, to increasing citizens' trust in the european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you, mr president of the court of auditors, for the comprehensive annual report. the court's strong view reflects a major improvement in the management of the european union's finances: the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the sampled exporting producers. this is the first time this has happened since the court began issuing a declaration of assurance. i regret, however, the lack of flexibility of the eu budget in responding to unforeseen events, as the court itself has pointed out: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. another negative aspect is the ever-increasing complexity of the european union's financing mechanisms: if this trend were to continue, it would risk undermining the accountability and transparency of the eu budget. the commission must heed the court's call for a greater focus on performance. the european union's funds must be spent in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached the final stages of a legislative process which began with the commission's proposal for a regulation in 2013 and which involved extensive research and intensive work, including negotiations, compromises and many meetings of comparison. with a legal basis based on chapter four of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the european legislator felt the need to combat crimes affecting the financial interests of the union, through a special legislative procedure, capable of establishing a european public prosecutor's office. fraud, corruption and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the european union constitute a serious obstacle to the achievement of the objectives which the union itself seeks to achieve by using its own resources and therefore require effective action to combat them, including the use of criminal law. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is undoubtedly a key element in the process of european integration in the field of criminal law, a requirement arising from the many crimes that are being perpetrated. according to figures provided by the european commission, each year the european national budgets lose almost €50 billion in vat revenue due to cross-border fraud. organised crime, acting at a transnational level, makes billions of euros by circumventing national rules and avoiding criminal prosecution. consider that in 2015, member states identified and reported to the commission fraudulent irregularities amounting to some eur 600 million. the tools available to national prosecutors in the fight against large-scale cross-border financial crime are limited. the new union delegation will provide coordination action, conducting rapid investigations across europe and exchanging information in real time. criminal investigations into fraud and other crimes against the eu budget are often hampered by divergent legislation: member states' national law enforcement authorities, prosecutors and judges shall decide on the basis of priorities set by national criminal policy and on the basis of national competences. as a result, the level of protection of the union's financial interests differs significantly from one member state to another, with often disappointing results. olaf has informed us that the success rate of prosecution of offences against the budget of the european union varies from 19% to 90% from one member state to another. the coordination of the prosecution service will thus lead to greater effectiveness in the prosecution of all crimes with a cross-border dimension. it is precisely in this perspective that i join the many voices that have been raised in recent weeks calling for the european public prosecutor's office to be given new powers as soon as possible. president juncker said this in his state of the union address, saying that he thought it was very appropriate to entrust the new european public prosecutor's office with the task of prosecuting cross-border terrorist offences. this was also reiterated by the president of the french republic, mr macron, who proposed the creation of a 'european anti-terrorist prosecutor' at the sorbonne a few days ago. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the extension of the range of powers of the public prosecutor's office will create the conditions for greater efficiency in the fight against organised crime and terrorist organisations: we can be stronger, and we can be less vulnerable.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote will finally see the birth of the long-awaited european public prosecutor's office, which we consider to be a central element in the fight against corruption in the european union. first of all, we regret that some member states have chosen to remain outside the remit of this new body of the union, and we hope that they will soon change their minds. the ombudsman, as also stressed in the european parliament resolution on the fight against corruption, for which i was rapporteur, will have to be efficient and independent of national governments and the institutions of the european union, but above all protected from political influence and pressure. i believe that the work of the european public prosecutor's office, also by using existing resources in the european context and by exchanging information with other bodies fighting fraud and corruption, such as olaf, europol and eurojust, can ensure the implementation of both repressive activities and the prevention of crimes against the european union. i therefore hope that the european public prosecutor's office will be given human and financial resources adequate to its tasks and i regret that its mandate does not include, at least explicitly, the necessary powers to combat organised crime. i say this with the awareness of those who have seen millions of euros of european union funds go to waste, for example for agriculture in the regions of southern italy, funding which, unfortunately, has ended up in the hands of fraudsters and organized crime, as noted in the latest report of the committee for the fight against fraud against the european union, set up by the italian government, which has recorded, among cases of fraud against the financial interests of the union, even cases of collection of contributions, in agriculture, by persons subject to anti-mafia prevention measures. in conclusion, more could be done and better: but there is no doubt that the european union is making significant progress in the fight against crime today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is undoubtedly one of the most important steps in the process of european integration of criminal law, because it is a body which will not only have coordinating functions but, for the first time, will have direct powers in the exercise of criminal prosecution and which will find in the pif directive a harmonised criminal law for the protection of the financial interests of the union. the text negotiated by the council is a good compromise which takes due account of many of the suggestions made by the european parliament. these include the inclusion of vat fraud in the competence of the public prosecutor's office, the inclusion of appropriate rules on the processing of personal data and the provision of specific procedural guarantees, especially with regard to judicial review of the decisions of the public prosecutor's office itself. the regret remains that unanimity was not achieved. nevertheless, i am convinced that the text, as requested by parliament, provides for appropriate measures for judicial coordination and cooperation also with non-participating countries, which must remain as far as possible within the european system for combating pif offences. it is hoped that the european public prosecutor's office will be able to start its work in due course, in order to combat more effectively financial crimes against the union, with the prospect, as you yourself have stressed, madam commissioner, and i thank you for this, of a possible future extension of its powers to other serious crimes of a cross-border nature, such as organised crime and terrorism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office fills the gap created by the impossibility for olaf, eurojust and europol to carry out criminal investigations, a very serious operational constraint. the eppo will be responsible for the implementation of the union's internal law and the application of union law, including the law on the protection of personal data. the commission will combine european and national efforts to combat fraud against the european union into a unified approach and overcome the current limitation of the national authorities' exclusive investigative role. but integrative activity is only the first step. the prosecution service will eventually have to take on a general task and prosecute all types of crime with a cross-border dimension, actively involving all member states, including, of course, those which do not participate in enhanced cooperation today. there is no lack of pilot projects in this field, and there is no lack of political will to take a step forward towards a unified administration of justice. it is a small step for now, but it is a necessary and significant step towards a united europe.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join commissioner jourová in expressing my regret that the regulation is the subject of enhanced cooperation involving 20 member states and not the union as a whole. i hope that the reasons which have led some countries not to participate in the work of the prosecutor's office will soon be overcome. the process of integration does not only involve the transfer of sovereignty, but also simple coordination, which enables a complex system such as that of the european union to function better and more effectively. ensuring effective coordination of investigations and judicial proceedings will solve the longstanding problem of the considerable differences between the different legal systems applicable. ensuring that the limited financial resources of the union are used in the best interests of the citizens of the union and are protected against fraud is also and above all essential for the legality of expenditure and for ensuring trust in the union. protecting the interests of the union budget therefore means protecting taxpayers' money: it's not a trivial detail. we are witnessing a disconnection of our citizens from the european institutions, a collapse in confidence and a surge of populism. the public prosecutor's office will give credit to the system as it was conceived and i am proud to have been a rapporteur for the european parliament: someone here said: "today a piece of history is being written for this union". i thank the shadow rapporteurs for the fruitful spirit of cooperation they have shown and put into practice over the years. i thank commissioner jourová and her staff for their support and continuous work over the years. i would like to thank the previous speakers and especially the various presidencies, and i regret that they were not with us this evening to take part in the debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the interpol red notices are a request for international cooperation by the criminal investigation authorities to locate and arrest, or otherwise restrict the freedom of movement, of persons in the territory of another state. on the subject of red alerts, there are known cases of misuse by some countries, including for suppressing individual freedoms and for political purposes. according to a report by the ngo fair trials, there has been a significant increase in red alerts from countries where fundamental freedoms are less protected and also in relation to the basis of a council of europe resolution highlights a significant growth in red alerts in recent years, with over 12000 alerts issued in 2016 alone. the correct use of red alerts should be further monitored, ensuring that the rights of citizens of the european union and of third countries are not infringed by the use of interpol data by member states and that the commission takes safeguards against abuse in the area of external border controls and the use of information systems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the safety of all road users is a matter of paramount importance and one which we discuss a great deal, particularly in the committee on transport and tourism, of which i am a member, and as a member of that committee, i can assure you that this matter will also be covered extensively in the new package of mobility rules which we are discussing. in particular, drivers of heavy goods vehicles should have at their disposal areas for parking and rest, provided with all services but above all safe. they must be able to rest without worrying about the protection of their cargo from theft, much less their own safety. the controls by the authorities are unfortunately insufficient in this area. europe can do a lot in terms of regulation, but without the cooperation of the member states too, it becomes difficult to implement the rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, road accidents are one of the main causes of death in europe, with more than 120 000 victims a year. we have to be realistic. we cannot think of making all the motorways of europe safe with the stroke of a pen in a few months. we need a working culture that restores dignity and rights to hauliers, with smart rules that prohibit exhausting driving shifts, in particular those drivers are obliged to take to circumvent cabotage rules and those protecting the single market. but europe must also aim to improve the average quality of its road network, without neglecting secondary networks. state-of-the-art infrastructure and outdated, poorly lit, overcrowded and dangerous roads often coexist in the same region. the same applies to the safety of parking lots along motorways, which are often the scene of trivial and grotesque accidents. an action plan must be drawn up as soon as possible to make our roads safer: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road network is not compromised.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, women represent 4.5% of the prison population in the union, a figure of around 25 000. on numerous occasions they are new mothers and mothers of children. that is why i stressed in my report the need for european prisons to take account of the special needs of these women. i think it is important that member states ensure that all women's hygiene and health needs are met, with reference to gynaecological health, pre- and post-natal care, and that they take appropriate measures to deal with the high levels of disproportionation, especially in the use of drugs within prisons. to deal with these problems, i have called for the need for women's prisons to be staffed predominantly by women, particularly with regard to the special attention to be given to pregnant women in prison, during and after childbirth, by providing adequate breastfeeding facilities, and by providing qualified and specialised nursing care. following the principle that the child should not have to pay for the responsibilities of the mother, i therefore thought it appropriate to suggest a reflection on alternative models of detention. we are not asking for a reduction in sentences, but simply for more humane conditions.
i would like to thank mrs bergeron and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work. as the rapporteur herself has shown during her visits to some penitentiaries and as the report rightly points out, overcrowding, degrading living conditions, lack of training and sometimes a shortage of specialised staff are unfortunately common to several member states of the union. however, the text does not only highlight the existing malfunctions in european prison systems, but also identifies guidelines and good practices to be implemented in the member states' penitentiaries. and while the management of prison systems is the exclusive responsibility of the member states, the european union can and must play a key role in safeguarding the fundamental rights of prisoners. the prisoner is first and foremost a human being, a holder of rights, whose dignity must always be guaranteed and safeguarded. the provision of decent living conditions for all prisoners is not only a humanitarian obligation but also an essential condition for a recovery process which finds in access to alternative measures the most appropriate instrument for their reintegration into society and reintegration into civilian life. the data collected during the preparation of the report confirm this point: in fact, convicts who have benefited from alternative measures have much lower recidivism rates than those who serve their entire sentence in detention. the increasing use of alternative penalties or community measures will, however, have to be accompanied by the necessary reforms of the judicial, educational and social systems, as the commissioner herself has stressed. the success of the rehabilitation process also requires the indispensable contribution of the prison police personnel, who are always at the forefront of the relationship with prisoners. the prison police should be provided with adequate resources, support and appropriate training, especially in the light of the new challenges facing the prison systems of the member states. i am thinking in particular of the phenomenon of radicalisation, which cannot be adequately prevented and counteracted without adequate monitoring and specific prison treatment programmes.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the rate of prison occupancy in europe has decreased slightly in recent years, the discomfort caused by excessive overcrowding in prisons is still very serious. this situation is made all the more tragic by the fact that the vast majority of prisons are very old, there is a lack of adequate health care, there is often violence in prisons and, last but not least, the conditions of prison staff are very difficult and often underestimated. as this parliament has already said, the fundamental rights of prisoners must be guaranteed by the national authorities. it is therefore necessary for the member states to address urgently the issue of the abuse of preventive detention measures, as well as that of alternative measures to detention which promote the re-education and social reintegration of convicted persons who are not socially dangerous. the report by mrs bergeron has the merit of highlighting the critical aspects of a reality which we are usually accustomed to ignoring, and of recalling that the compass which must guide us is always respect for the fundamental rights and the safeguarding of the human dignity of prisoners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i come to the end of this debate, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the importance and the accuracy of this report and to echo what has already been said by the previous speakers in my group. so i speak of what i have seen and see with my own eyes. yesterday emiliano puleo, a young man who has been held for months in the hamburg prison, without having received any sentence, any preventive or protective sentence, was released from the prison in hamburg. the repression of political dissent is becoming more and more of an emergency in europe: as i have already pointed out in a report to the commissioner, there is a crime in italy, a denial of basic human rights, a form of torture called prison, which is life imprisonment for hostages. i believe it is essential that this parliament takes action, uses all the power at its disposal to guarantee the rights of women prisoners, the rights of trans people in prison. i say this as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee, and i think that in this respect this report is a step forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner jourová, the overcrowding of european prisons is one of the great unsolved problems of our continent. in recent years, prison overcrowding has become a major concern, fortunately, also for the council of europe, which is committed to monitoring the standards of practice in european prisons. statistics show that many countries still have very high overcrowding rates, despite policies to improve conditions. i myself, in my work in italian prisons, have monitored the health situation in prisons and have seen that all the problems in the various institutions i have visited are inextricably linked to overcrowding. in some institutions the situation is so serious that it ends up generating real health emergencies, compromising the dignity as well as the health of prisoners and prison staff. having facilities with a limited number of inmates ensures dignified detention conditions and encourages rehabilitation, reintegration into society. the deprivation of liberty cannot and must not constitute a deprivation of dignity. and that is the direction in which europe must move.
author. – mr president, malawi, along with other african countries, is facing an awful violation of human rights towards people with albinism, due to erroneous superstitions and beliefs about this rare genetic condition. constantly targeted by gangs and individuals driven by ignorance and myths about the magical powers of their body parts, people with albinism are facing pretty much all kinds of human abuses, from mutilation, abduction, killings, rapes, to social discrimination and exclusion from access to basic public services. governments of these countries are facing an enormous struggle in order to stop these heinous crimes and to prosecute their authors. in this joint resolution, we call for the eu and its member states to keep engaging with the countries affected, in order to effectively support their efforts to formulate policies addressing the special needs and rights of persons with albinism, by providing the necessary financial and technical assistance. among others, i think that the creation of specific local task forces within the police with the specific aim of preventing and investigating these crimes could be a useful tool.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this subject has been a taboo for many years, during which time few members of the european parliament, including myself, have taken an interest in it. that is why we wanted to present a document to our group's signatories, to underline the fact that we have been denouncing this problem for a long time, which has obviously been considered sensitive, taboo, because no one has ever seriously dealt with it. of course, not the african governments that were directly affected, because there are 27 states in sub-saharan africa that are affected by this problem. of course, in some of these, the problem is greater. it's about malawi. president mutharika has come forward to denounce this, although there are no concrete measures to prosecute traffickers of body parts or even bodies of the dead. it is a dirty business, it is a taboo, a very serious thing, one of the most despicable forms of persecution, truly harmful. the european parliament has been very active in this debate, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in this debate. but we're actually talking about albinos, and so in a sense, this is also anti-white racism: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then europe should make its voice heard much more strongly in the un, but also in the african union, which has many reasons for having to listen to europe's voice. the african union must engage with individual governments and strike where there is cover against this trade which is a disgrace to the whole world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy of the albinos is an unknown tragedy, but it has been causing hundreds of deaths for years. yet, their condition is a hereditary genetic condition that, on the contrary, should be adequately treated by the country's health facilities as well. of course, we cannot ignore the progress made by some countries, first of all tanzania, in their efforts to include, also politically, persons with albinism. something is moving, thanks in part to the european union's awareness-raising and the african union-united nations regional action plan, which is a positive but also concrete sign of commitment from african leaders. i would remind you that the primary responsibility of a state is to protect its citizens, including vulnerable groups. we therefore call on the malawian government to ensure effective protection for people with albinism in order to defend their right to life and personal safety. it is unacceptable that these people are not only subject to extreme violence but also to persecution and social exclusion. we also need cultural action, mr president, to put an end to the stigmatisation of these people, starting with schools, and to eradicate old and entrenched practices which today, in 2017, must no longer find a place in any concept of modernity or tradition. albinos will not be forgotten or abandoned to their fate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, expelled from the communities and tortured, but also mutilated and killed, and without any certain punishment for the persecutors: this is the situation of people with albinism in many countries in sub-saharan africa, but also in the pacific and in india. the situation is most serious in the state of malawi, where every year many people with albinism are killed and mutilated and their body parts are sold for ritual use. amnesty international, in its report "we are not animals to be hunted or sold", argues that since 2014 there has been an increase in cases of kidnapping and murder, forcing albinos to live in constant fear. the european union and the international community must take all possible action to ensure that people with albinism have their rights and dignity respected. the governments of countries where these crimes are committed, such as malawi, must be urged to offer effective protection to people with albinism, to protect their right to life and personal safety.
member of the commission,on behalf of thevice-president of the commission / high representative of theunion for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to express my appreciation for this opportunity to speak on a significant human rights issue. in recent years, we have registered a worrying increase in human rights abuses against people with albinism in malawi and other sub-saharan african countries. these criminal and discriminatory incidents involve violent attacks, abductions, human trafficking and killings. when the subject was last discussed in this house, honourable members drew attention to a number of crucial actions which needed to be pursued. these actions remain highly relevant today. that is why the eu has been engaging with the concerned countries, urging protection and policing in communities where attacks against albinos are rife, while encouraging the authorities to bring the perpetrators of these crimes to justice. this requires, inter alia, increased cooperation across borders because the problem often has a regional dimension. at the same time, honourable members, we have also supported your recognition of the need to tackle the roots of social stigma against people with albinism, as well as encouraging acknowledgement of their specific needs, be they medical, psychological, educational or social. this challenge requires a longer-term commitment, implying close cooperation with all the stakeholders, including civil society, which has a role to play in confronting social beliefs deeply entrenched in superstition. on a more positive note, the international community is also increasingly mobilising against this situation. on 13 june, we marked international albinism awareness day. that and the recent appointment of the first ever united nations independent expert on the enjoyment of human rights by persons with albinism are important steps towards increasing awareness of this issue. moreover, the governments concerned are demonstrating increasing recognition of the scale of this problem, which is a positive initial step. we stand ready for further engagement with our partners, and, through our delegations, the eu will continue supporting local civil-society efforts. our aim is that persons with albinism will be fully able to live in dignity, free from violence and discrimination.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. all too often in many african countries, albinos are subjected to physical and sexual violence, harassment, persecution, discrimination and in some cases even murder. women and children with albinism are particularly vulnerable to social exclusion, bullying and often live in fear of being attacked. the five star movement has always stood up to fight human rights violations and to protect minorities from inhuman acts, such as those forced upon albinos in africa. the institutions of malawi must be urged to address and combat the harmful superstitions that lead to discrimination against albinos, through information campaigns, also working with international partners. the eu must play a key role in supporting these actions, monitoring and supporting african states, to end the barbarism that albinos are forced to endure.
the agenda includes the discussion of five motions for resolutions on the cases of tatar leaders akhtem chiygoz and ilmi umerov and journalist mykola semena in crimea (2017/2869 ((rsp)).
member of the commission,on behalf of thevice-president of the commission / high representative of theunion for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the human rights situation in the crimean peninsula has been deteriorating severely, as most recently documented in a report by the united nations high commissioner for human rights on 25 september. this report highlights the fact that russian law has replaced ukrainian law, in violation of international humanitarian law, that prisoners have been transferred to russia (something which is prohibited under international humanitarian law), that there are systemic restrictions of fundamental freedoms, that there have been multiple failures to uphold the right to a fair trial and, not least, that there are arbitrary detentions, enforced disappearances, ill-treatment and torture. the three cases before us regrettably illustrate very well the worsening situation. on 11 september, the deputy chair of the mejlis, akhtem chiygoz, was sentenced to eight years’ imprisonment for participating in a pre-annexation rally held in support of the territorial integrity of ukraine. on 22 september, the journalist mykola semena received a two-and-a-half-year suspended prison sentence merely for doing his job and, on 27 september, the deputy chair of the mejlis, ilmi umerov, was sentenced to two years in prison for defending ukraine’s territorial integrity in television interviews. these three cases are clear violations of fundamental freedoms, particularly that of expression. in addition, the eu does not recognise the illegal annexation and, therefore, we do not recognise the application of russian law in the peninsula, including the politically motivated sentences given to mr chiygoz, mr umerov and mr semena. the european external action service has issued a statement in each of these cases. the eu also raises the issue of human rights violations and abuses in crimea in public statements in international forums. eu officials regularly meet human rights defenders and journalists from crimea, to be well informed about the situation on the ground. currently, we are following closely the situation of four crimean tatars detained on monday. all illegally detained ukrainian citizens in crimea and russia should be released and their right to legal counsel and access to consular officers must be fully respected. access to health care must be ensured, there should be full, free and unhindered access to the peninsula for international human rights personnel. the eu remains unwavering in its support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine and does not recognise the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula, which is a violation of international law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in the maldives (2017/2870(rsp)).
author. – mr president, we are here today discussing once again the situation in the maldives, which not only has not improved, but has got even worse. through our vote we will surely support this resolution. however, i would like to underline that we are not actually taking any steps forward in comparison with the previous resolution. indeed, a crucial part of the previous resolution is missing, namely the travel ban. i genuinely think that the travel ban approach is by far the most effective tool we can use to have a high impact on the maldivian government and to offer a concrete and solid response to those who are violating human rights and international law in the maldives. considering that hundreds of thousands of european tourists travel to the maldives every year, and taking into account that the government is clearly not concerned about any international recommendations or admonitions, i strongly believe that the travel ban may be one of the best options we have at our disposal. indeed, the travel ban will produce the dramatic loss of a huge market share for the travel industry, which would make them vulnerable and surely keener to respect human rights.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the maldives: when heaven becomes hell. we have already discussed in this house the deterioration of civil liberties, the threats, the torture that opposition members and journalists, bloggers, human rights defenders and ordinary citizens are suffering in the beautiful indian ocean atoll, the dream of millions of tourists unaware of what is really happening. when it seemed that the situation could not get any worse, president abdul gayoom made a statement, clearly expressing his intention to resume executions in the country by the end of september. executions necessary, he said, to maintain public order and the values of the maldives. if that's not a red line, what is, then, fellas? i repeat the call we made in december 2015, also to counter the selective deafness that the union is increasingly showing: we need targeted sanctions against those responsible for this authoritarian drift and if there is no progress, we must have the courage to put a total travel ban on our tourists on the table. and i make a second appeal to the member states: inform your citizens that outside the golden cages of the vacation resort, a hell is materializing. and finally, one final warning: you ignored our demands, but today it is painfully clear that business as usual is not only not a viable path, but is interpreted by our counterpart as a sign of weakness, an endorsement to continue unabated its repressive policies towards civil society, which we should instead defend. to persevere at this point would be diabolical.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, in 2008 the maldives made a promising transition from 30 years of authoritarian rule to a democratic system, through multiparty elections. the eu is monitoring the human rights and political situation in the country and has expressed a number of concerns. there is a worrying trend of reduced freedom of expression and freedom of association, highlighted most recently by the suspension of 56 lawyers for submitting a petition highlighting concerns with the judiciary. opposition leaders are imprisoned or restricted in their movements. after the unprecedented lockdown of the parliament by security forces on 24 july 2017, there was an intensified crackdown on opposition legislators. some journalists and media professionals also face intimidation and harassment. on 25 july 2017 the eu delegation accredited to the maldives, with nine other embassies, made a local statement to the effect that: ‘it is essential that the freedoms of assembly and expression are upheld for all. opposition politicians and members of civil society must be able to conduct their rightful duties without fear of intimidation or arrest.’ in late august the authorities agreed to host an electoral follow-up mission. i welcome that decision, which shows the authorities’ openness to discuss even challenging topics. follow-up to the implementation of the previous eu recommendations would be a good framework for dialogue before the upcoming presidential election planned for november 2018. there has been a de facto moratorium on the death penalty for more than 60 years. whereas the current administration continues publicly to maintain a commitment to resuming executions, there has not been an execution for more than half a century. the european union and its member states will continue to hold a strong and principled position against the death penalty in all circumstances and all cases. several statements have been issued by the european external action service calling for the de facto moratorium on the death penalty to be upheld as a step towards its abolition. radicalisation and criminality are on the rise in the maldives. the brutal murder of blogger ... (the president interrupted the speaker)mr president, radicalisation and criminality are on the rise in the maldives. the brutal murder of blogger and human rights activist yameen rasheed in april 2017 testifies to this trend. on the other hand, the eu and the maldives are strong partners in the fight against climate change, which remains one of the important areas of mutual interest. member states have major investments in the tourist sector in the maldives. every year between 300 000 and 500 000 european tourists travel to the maldives. it is important, in the dialogue with the authorities, to ensure the safety and security of these tourists as well as maldivian citizens, through cooperation to prevent terrorism and violent extremism. to conclude, for several years we have held an annual dialogue to exchange views on issues of concern and issues of common interest. the last annual eu—maldives policy dialogue was hosted by the ministry of foreign affairs in malé in may 2017 and we intend to maintain this dialogue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, the number of prisoners in europe is more than one third of the number of places available. in some member states, including italy, the situation is dramatic. i voted in favour of this report, partly because it clearly states that there is no correlation between the severity of penalties and the fall in the crime rate. the purpose of the states is not revenge, but the defeat of crime. and to achieve this goal, we need not harsher punishments, but fairer and more effective ones to rehabilitate prisoners. it must be clear that deprivation of liberty must not degenerate into deprivation of dignity. it is therefore important to study alternative measures to traditional prison, to promote cultural rehabilitation, training and education that open up new perspectives for prisoners. i have known prisoners who were mafia killers and today they are workers, artisans, artists and other prisoners who were not criminals, but only poor people who in prison became mafia. the difference is between an experience and torture.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for your contributions to this important debate and also thank you mr nilsson for this question. if you allow me to be a little bit personal, i myself worked five years for the municipal office and i recognise very strongly that it is very important to develop the social economy at the local level – and not only at the local level – and to open the possibilities for people to start up entrepreneurial activities and keep them going. i stressed at the beginning in the opening remarks that we, as the commission, have fully recognised the importance of the european social model and of our social market economy. we recognise that the social economy is an instrument that brings solidarity and innovative answers to societal challenges that we face, and i also repeat again that the commission has launched a number of new actions for the social economy as part of the 2016 communication on ‘europe’s next leaders: the startup and scaleup initiative’. let me stress again that we are focusing on five main pillars and actions, including: access to finance, access to markets, developing framework conditions and also using and developing new technologies and innovations. we will follow closely the developments of the social economy and social enterprises in europe. we are committed to provide the appropriate policy for the social economy to help europe achieve a more cohesive and inclusive society.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 5 october 2017.
before i begin today's sitting, i would like to recall the victims of the forest fires which have occurred in portugal and spain in recent weeks. as i said in my speech to the european council, this is a worrying phenomenon and deserves our full attention. in europe alone, more than 750 000 hectares of our forests have been burnt this year and more than 100 people have lost their lives in portugal alone. i am therefore convinced of the need and urgency to set up a european civil protection body and to simplify the regulatory framework so that people can receive immediate help when they are in need. i also inform you that we have decided, by common accord with president tusk and president juncker, to give back to the populations affected by the forest fires the amount of the 'princess of asturias' prize for concord, awarded this year to the european union, which i had the honour of receiving last friday in oviedo. this is a symbolic way of expressing our closeness to those communities and to the families of the many victims in portugal and spain, in whose memory i propose that we observe a minute's silence, during which we will also commemorate the irish victims of hurricane ophelia. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence) i would also like to inform the house that tomorrow, before the vote, a minute's silence will be held in memory of the maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia, who was brutally murdered in an attack last week. we shall have this very brief ceremony tomorrow, because the victims' families will be in the chamber tomorrow, and i have invited them: they've accepted and they'll be in the stands.
we now come to the amendments to the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to interrupt, but the news in the last few hours has reported that a judge in tehran has sentenced to death ahmadreza djalali, a university professor who teaches at the university of stockholm and the university of turin in italy. we have already dealt with the case of professor djalali in this parliament, because we have signed a letter together with many members of parliament asking for the intervention of the president of the islamic republic of iran to prevent him from intervening in this process, which is a shadowy process in which the professor is only accused of being, in some way, a collaborator of hostile foreign powers. this is a very serious case. the condemnation has been issued in the last few days and i ask you to use all the influence you can to understand what is happening and to stop this latest blow to democracy.
mrs viotti, you know that the european union has made the fight against the death penalty a priority throughout the world, so i will do everything in my power not only to obtain information but also to ask the president of the islamic republic of iran to suspend the execution of the professor and thus to ensure that there is no further execution in the world.
the european parliament has always spoken out against terrorism. we remember the victims not only when they are european, but victims of terrorism all over the world. so i agree with your observation: the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in somalia and has called for the immediate release of all those who have been arrested. the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on thursday 19 october 2017. the following amendments were tabled. monday: no request for change. tuesday: the greens/efa group has asked for a resolution to be added to the debate on the commission statement on combating sexual harassment and abuse in the european union, to be voted on during this part-session. i give the floor to mr ska keller to make the request of his group.
we go by order. first we must decide whether to add a resolution to the end of the debate on combating sexual harassment and abuse within the union, namely the proposal by mrs ska keller. then there will be mr. in 't veld's proposal to change the date. but first we have to decide on the content, then we'll decide on the date. thirdly, i will answer directly, without waiting for the next round. is there anyone who would like to speak against mr. ska keller's proposal? i'm not sure. the motion is put to the vote. the request is granted. the debate on the commission statement on combating sexual harassment and abuse in the union will therefore be concluded by a resolution to be voted on during this part-session. mr veld asked for a change of agenda and a reversal of the fifth item on tuesday with the discussion on the protection of workers against the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens or mutagens, which is scheduled for wednesday morning. it has asked that the debate on sexual abuse be held on wednesday and that the debate on the protection of workers against the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens or mutagens be held on tuesday evening instead. is there anyone who is against this change? please, mr. rodrigues, please.
we shall vote on the proposal by mr 't veld. the motion is carried.
i shall then respond to the requests of mr veld, mr weber and mr martin. the commission statement on combating sexual harassment and abuse in the union on tuesday afternoon is being replaced by the debate on the protection of workers against the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens or mutagens, currently scheduled for wednesday morning, and there will be a resolution. as regards the requests made by ms 't veld, ms weber and mr martin, on 14 april 2014 the bureau set up an advisory committee on complaints of harassment concerning accredited parliamentary assistants, on the one hand, and members of the european parliament, on the other. the committee has two main functions: prevent any bullying behaviour by members towards accredited parliamentary assistants and assist the president in any investigation. the internal procedure for resolving problems of mobbing is initiated following a formal complaint of psychological or sexual harassment lodged by an assistant against an mep. the committee, after hearing the parliamentary assistant, decides to open an inquiry if there is sufficient evidence. the two parties are invited to provide evidence to support their respective positions. at the end of the inquiry, the committee shall forward its recommendations to the president, who shall adopt a decision. such a decision may consist of a penalty, in accordance with rule 166, by informing the chamber of the facts. i should add that an assistant is also on the committee. there is also a committee on civil servants. i should also like to add that last year the committee sent all members a document, a volume, to combat sexual and non-sexual harassment and pressure. it is a guide which has been sent to all members, with the names of the members of the committee. i shall of course inform the bureau of parliament this evening to assess all the initiatives in this area. i shall be hearing from the quaestor morin-chartier, who is responsible for leading this group, to get all the information i need. of course, anyone who has suffered such harassment must, as our rules require, turn to this committee, which will make all the necessary inquiries. since there is a committee chaired by a quaestor elected by the plenary, i do not think that, in view of the sovereignty of parliament, there should be inquiries to be entrusted to outsiders. the ad hoc committee, chaired by a quaestor elected by parliament, and including a parliamentary assistant, is to carry out the inquiries. so whatever needs to be done will be done. it is unacceptable that this sort of thing should happen, and i hope that it will be very limited within parliament. then we'll see how many people are there, but so far we haven't had such a high number of complaints. but even if it were a single case, that would be unacceptable as far as i am concerned. i have already said in the past, when i had to take a disciplinary decision against one of our colleagues, what my view is on the role of women in european society, so from this point of view i will be uncompromising in imposing very harsh sanctions on members of parliament who have violated our code and our rules. wednesday: the greens/efa group asked that the joint debate on the entry/exit system, currently scheduled for wednesday morning, be postponed to a further part-session.
i put to the vote the request of the green group, which asks that the debate on the entry/exit system, scheduled for wednesday morning, be postponed to a further part-session. the request is denied, so the agenda remains unchanged. wednesday: the gue/ngl group has asked for the agenda for wednesday's debate to be changed as follows: the council and commission statements on the response mechanisms to the forest fires in northern spain and portugal will be the first item on wednesday afternoon, before the discussion on topical issues.
i put to the vote mr ferreira's request, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, to change the agenda and move the debate on the forest fires in portugal and spain to the first item on wednesday afternoon. the request is rejected, so the agenda is not changed. the order of business is so fixed.
the agenda includes the report by mr mihai ţurcanu, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down rules for the making available on the market of ce marked fertilising products and amending regulations (ec) no 1069/2009 and (ec) no 1107/2009 (com (((2016) 0157 - c8-0123/2016 - 2016/0084 ((cod)) (a8-0270/2017).
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am here to witness the hard, long and complex work that has been done. we have welcomed this regulation very warmly, because it will bring a wide range of fertilisers under the ec mark, which were previously excluded, but we also have some concerns. we, as the environment committee, had exclusive competence with regard to contaminants and the subject on which we had the most debate was certainly that of cadmium, as the rapporteur, mr ţurcanu, has already mentioned. my concerns are very acute because even in the commission's fact sheets it is estimated that going to a limit of 40 milligrams would require great efforts and greater investment in technology, etc., etc., but the commission itself acknowledges in these documents that going even to 20 milligrams, as the commission has proposed and as the environment committee has also confirmed, would involve such and greater investment in decadmification and probably even require a general reshaping of the fertiliser market. that is why i think caution is important and that perhaps it is right to give ourselves a little time to think, considering that already at 60 milligrams we are halfway to the lowest limit we find in the world. you know, from 120 to 150 to 160 we're talking about the united states, we're talking about canada, we're talking about australia: we are not talking about countries that do not care about the environment. so i join the call of the rapporteur, mr turcanu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation we are going to adopt tomorrow will give us a regulatory framework that is finally harmonized in a sector, that of fertilisers, which - i would like to remind all of us - represents 100 000 jobs in europe, hundreds of small and mediumsized enterprises, with an annual turnover of between 20 and 25 billion euros. i would like to stress three important results that emerge from this text. the first is the visible, legible and comprehensive ce marking, which will ensure greater protection for consumers and, above all, for farmers. the second: we have ensured that the use of recycled and organic materials is promoted for the further development of the circular economy and the reduction of dependence on imports of certain raw materials from third countries. finally, there is the most sensitive aspect of the regulation, namely the definition of harmonised limit values for certain contaminating products such as cadmium and chromium. i believe that the approach which our group has put to parliament is one of reasonableness and balance. on the one hand, attention to the health of citizens and to environmental safety, and on the other hand, the need for a reasonable period of time for the industrial system to adapt to the new limits envisaged, new limits which, i would remind you all, in most european countries are clearly below the starting limit of this directive, namely the 60 milligrams which we have set as the starting point. i think some people might argue that the timing could have been quicker to arrive at a harmonised framework at european level. however, what matters - i think, ladies and gentlemen - is to set europe on a course which, through investment, research and development, will make this sector more competitive and our policies more environmentally sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the food we eat is the main source of heavy metal contamination, including cadmium, which is classified as a carcinogen. this is stated by efsa, which has also set maximum acceptable intake levels in its scientific opinions. a 2015 study by the institute for experimental zooprophylaxis in venice found that those who follow a mediterranean vegetarian or vegan diet are also more exposed to high levels of cadmium and thus to contamination. by introducing strict limits for cadmium and other heavy metals such as mercury, arsenic and lead in this new regulation, we can safeguard the health of european consumers. not to do it today would be foolish and irresponsible. we also have another great opportunity to seize, that of the circular economy, to make something that has been abstract until now, something concrete. this regulation seeks to turn waste into resources and create a market for organic fertilisers to encourage natural and clean fertilisers. and in this way we could achieve a twofold result: the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the number of people who are unemployed, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. on the other hand, we would be encouraging a real transition towards sustainable and natural agriculture which is beneficial for ecosystems, the environment and, of course, people. we are talking about a ce mark and we are talking about stringent criteria for creating a new market. those who do not respect them can stay out and continue business as usual, but we must aim for the maximum and the improvement of the health of european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european agriculture is called upon to play a leading role in the increasingly pressing global challenge of access to food. in this sense, the availability of quality fertilising products is one of the conditions for the development of more productive and at the same time more sustainable agricultural models, which in the future will have to be able to produce more, using less inputs. for these reasons, the regulation under discussion cannot be merely an opportunity to harmonize the rules on traditional fertilisers at european level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. the european parliament's ambitious position will therefore have to be able to confirm the union's role as a leader in sustainable development, while ensuring the availability of fertilising products at fair prices, without creating further distortions of competition to the detriment of our farmers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fertiliser regulation is certainly a step forward. finally, there is harmonization of standards, finally, access to the market for innovative fertilisers is facilitated, the use of organic and recycled materials is promoted, and finally, clearer labels. unfortunately, there is still no agreement on the limits for cadmium. on cadmium, some colleagues have urged us to be cautious and reasonable. i think it is not reasonable to minimize or ignore the fact that cadmium is a heavy metal that is a serious carcinogen that contaminates water, soil and food. i think it is not reasonable to ignore the fact that in many european countries the national limits are lower, in the east and in the west: 20, 22 of them. italy, which excels in agriculture, has a limit of 50. and then it's possible, we're not proposing the moon. we are determined to apply the precautionary principle. let us not be divided: the proposal we have put forward is reasonable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation is a step in the right direction, by encouraging the large-scale production of organic fertilisers from waste, in line with the circular economy model, and by facilitating their access to the single market on equal terms with traditional inorganic fertilisers. the maximum limits for impurities, such as microbial contaminants, and the new minimum nutrient content per functional product category, to ensure the quality of ce marked fertilisers, are also positive. however, more could and should be done to ensure the safety of fertilisers and to reduce the limits for heavy metals, in particular cadmium, for each functional category. i think the envi proposal is reasonable and i think the executive committee's proposal is acceptable, but the compromise that has been advanced for 16 years to reduce cadmium to 20 milligrams per kilogram of product is more a gift to the producers than a serious and responsible position to protect the environment and consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing one of the great tragedies of our time: the use and dependence of psychotropic substances that threaten the health and lives of millions of people. this theme crosses the existential drama of young people and adults, threatens their mental balance, becomes an opportunity for crime and illicit trafficking. the number of substances is growing rapidly and therefore i think it is no longer advisable to postpone the decision to strengthen the monitoring and warning system, making it even more widespread, and to accompany the monitoring systems with research into the effects and outcomes of the increasing use of mixed substances. finally, and i will come back to this again, the marketing of psychoactive substances via the internet should be strictly prohibited, because it is accessible to everyone and because it is also, perhaps, cheaper.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs on the two dossiers under discussion today, which update the european legislative framework for the fight against drugs by criminalising the illegal trade in new psychoactive and psychotropic substances. the subjecting of the illicit trafficking of these new substances to criminal law provisions is certainly a deterrent, aimed also at limiting the availability and consumption of substances which are sometimes extremely dangerous to the health of our young people. however, in addition to the measures to be taken to enforce the law, there is a need for measures to prevent and inform people of the harmful effects of the use of new psychoactive substances. it is therefore necessary to take coordinated action between the member states to harmonize national substantive legislation and, of course, as the proposal for a regulation rightly advocates, to ensure the most rapid exchange of information on new substances which could be classified as psychoactive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs on the drugs package. new psychoactive substances are a relatively new phenomenon and europe has been the first to move in this direction. however, today the phenomenon must be seen as a global one and new measures must be taken to respond quickly to the new challenges. we certainly cannot be satisfied with the silence that has been so far; the commission is also proposing to establish a european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) to monitor the implementation of the new drug control and control measures. we cannot ignore the society that is asking us to discuss openly and without taboos the derivatives of cannabis, a substance that commits our law enforcement agencies to 80% of its resources. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the important pharmacological properties of this substance have also been too often underestimated. i therefore think it is appropriate to launch an open debate in parliament in the coming months on the role of the union in the un and the need to give cannabis a status that is more in line with the times.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last five years there has been an unprecedented increase in the number, type and availability of new psychoactive substances in europe, with over 100 new drugs identified for the first time. the world health organization states that the new psychoactive substances available in europe are particularly dangerous because of their toxicity, interaction with other substances and influence on mental processes. the rapid increase in new psychoactive substances presents a new challenge for the definition of an effective policy to combat the use of such substances, in which the european union must be at the forefront, both through europol's coordination action and through the eu rapid alert system, an essential tool to enable national authorities to identify new substances and to act promptly to intercept and remove them from the market. a joint effort by the european institutions, an economic, logistical and political effort is therefore necessary to ensure that the national and community authorities are equipped with the appropriate instruments to combat the spread and development of the new narcotics, which are increasingly difficult to detect and, unfortunately, increasingly dangerous.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now the fundamental role played by whistleblowers in revealing serious breaches of the public interest has been highlighted by a series of scandals in very different areas, such as the protection of public health, the environment and tax evasion. the protection of whistleblowers is one of the most important tools for safeguarding the public interest. unfortunately, the protections offered, where they exist, are inadequate or too fragmented to ensure a coherent framework within the european union. a number of international standards on the protection of whistleblowers have been developed, on which european legislation should therefore be based. in accordance with those rules, the definition of whistleblower should be sufficiently broad to cover a maximum number of situations and thereby protect public and private sector employees, consultants and the self-employed. the case of journalist and blogger daphne caruana galizia, who has been dubbed the "wikileaks woman", also forces us to do everything we can to protect whistleblowers who work to expose wrongdoing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the panama papers, swiss leaks and lux leaks are just the latest major scandals to have exposed tax evasion, transnational fraud and corruption, which have become known thanks to the courageous initiative of those who felt it their duty to denounce criminal behaviour aimed at harming the community. i think that the european parliament should be given credit for having brought such a sensitive and topical issue to the fore, and also for having highlighted the differences between the national systems of the member states, in some of which whistleblowers are not protected or are sometimes criminalised for their actions. i thank mr rozière for his work in highlighting the need for a regulatory framework with minimum standards to harmonise the treatment of such cases and to protect whistleblowers by establishing specific legal rules, so as to recognise their fundamental role in the public interest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the protection of whistleblowers, of informants, and so we are talking about a real fight against corruption, a real fight for transparency. but beyond words, the reality of the facts tells us about a heterogeneous system of norms, which varies from country to country: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's information system is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to provide the information it needs. it is therefore necessary to guarantee the possibility, even for anonymous informants, to be able to operate, it is therefore necessary to protect them from any form of retaliation by employers and the institutions for which they work, and for this, in my view, it is essential to achieve a reversal of the burden of proof. in the case of dismissals, in the case of potentially discriminatory behaviour, it is those who have done it who have to prove their good faith and not the whistleblower, on the contrary, who has to prove that he has suffered a wrong. in addition, perhaps we should also think about funds to help with the economic consequences. this is what we have to do if we really want to talk about protecting whistleblowers, otherwise the courage of their words will only be followed by the silence of our indifference.
member of the commission. – mr president, once again i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur for this report, which is an important contribution to our debate. the commission strongly believes that protecting those who raise the alarm helps detect serious violations of the law which would otherwise be difficult to identify. whistle—blowing is an upstream component of the chain of actions necessary for an effective enforcement of the law and the safeguarding of the public interest. let me underline that we should protect responsible whistle—blowing which genuinely seeks to protect the public interest. it is essential to safeguard the rights and interests of entities affected by whistle—blower reports, such as their right of defence. the question is how best to achieve this objective, and how we can contribute at eu level. as you know, the commission is currently finalising its assessment of the scope of such eu action. our open public consultation conducted this year attracted a lot of interest. we received some 5700 replies, of which around 200 were from stakeholder organisations. the full results are available online, but let me underline that respondents were overwhelmingly in favour of protecting whistle—blowers. asked specifically in which areas the european union should support member states to better protect whistle—blowers, the top four areas they cited were: the fight against fraud and corruption, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, the protection of the environment and the protection of public health and safety. to feed our assessment, we have also commissioned an external study. we are carrying out a detailed mapping of the legal situation across the european union, including through targeted consultations with national authorities and other stakeholders. the commission will consider further actions in the first part of 2018. in this context, your report is very timely, and the solutions proposed will be taken into account in our work.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, citizens, it is clear to everyone today that poverty is a european problem, caused precisely by the policies that this european union has perpetrated for years. the last hope for putting a stop to the poverty crisis is the willingness of all countries to adopt a minimum income that will restore life and dignity to the almost 120 million european citizens who are no longer able to make ends meet and are struggling to survive. with this document europe will no longer be able to turn a blind eye to the suffering of its citizens. europe must no longer remain deaf to the requests for help that households and businesses have been making for years. the european commission should address the issue of the minimum income without delay and present a proposal for a binding directive as soon as possible. today, according to the european social observatory, various forms of income support already exist in 26 member states, and i regret to add that in my own country there is no minimum income. we want europe to act immediately with a common framework of rules which will allow the harmonization of the different existing schemes with common and valid access criteria for all, such as, for example, basing the calculation of the income to be paid on the poverty threshold, which eurostat sets at 60% of the national average income. there are no 'b' citizens, everyone must be able to benefit from minimum income schemes in the same way. it is not enough to say that the budget lines of the european social fund and the european programme for employment and social innovation should be made available to help member states implement minimum income schemes. it is a strategic approach and a vision, which allows for real social integration. it 's not just about the money . the citizens do not ask for alms, but for policies of dignity. if money is found to save the banks, i demand all the more that resources be found for the children of this europe which is too often the victim of vicious interests. our continent must regain its human face, providing health care, housing, education and dignity through expansive economic policies that benefit everyone. i would like to conclude by thanking the commissioner and his fellow rapporteurs, but also by saying that this work, this document, bears my signature, bears the signature of the five star movement, but it contains the names of all the 120 million european citizens for whom it was written. our commitment, our dedication and our work have been, are and always will be directed towards the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures on poverty in the european union are very worrying, and the austerity policies of recent years have exacerbated them: 119 million people in the european union, about 25% of the total population, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and to this must be added the high rates of unemployment, especially among young people. one of my first initiatives as a member of the european parliament was to ask the commission about the plight of millions of european citizens who are unable to meet their basic needs. the minimum income of citizenship is one possibility, although it varies with varying degrees in the various member states. europe must be able to build a common welfare system based on the centrality and the role of each european citizen. an integrated poverty reduction strategy, based on objective indicators and with a clear timetable for implementation, is needed to ensure that the europe 2020 targets are met.
in writing. the economic crisis and globalisation processes have created a growing gap between rich and poor, with a european middle class that has been sliding ever further into poverty in recent years. it is therefore absolutely essential that a strong protection network be set up at european level, and the citizenship income is a measure that can restore dignity to the many people who are in extreme difficulty today. this is a battle that the m5s has always fought in italy, but a european directive in this sense would be an important step towards social justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the european plan to combat youth unemployment, the 'youth guarantee' is intended to finance active policies of guidance, training and integration into the labour market for inactive young people. these are therefore key targets, considering that the average unemployment rate in the european union is 17.8%, with peaks of 45% in greece, 41.5% in spain and 35% in italy. the european court of auditors, in its report on the impact of european policies on youth unemployment, however, pointed out that in many countries the programme did not ensure the effective integration of young people into the world of work. as regards italy, i have already pointed out in the past that the problems persist in certain regions, with average delays in payments of around 64 days, although the most worrying fact is the overall effectiveness of the programme, i.e. the impact on youth unemployment in the individual member states. in italy, only 31% of the young people involved found employment, compared with 64% in ireland and 90% in france. clear and appropriate strategies must therefore be defined to correct... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in my country youth unemployment is almost 37%, according to the latest figures, and youth unemployment in sicily, a region we visited precisely to check how the youth guarantee funds were being spent, is a shameful 57%. you can see how impressive these figures are, and the most impressive thing, which has impressed us and has impressed the european court of auditors, is that the policy in this region has been unable to put together an efficient payment system. young people went to work very often and received their payments after months. this is a disgrace, a disgrace that can be reversed, absolutely, by throwing out certain parties. and it is absolutely necessary, however, to reverse austerity policies, because you understand that unless we also help businesses to create demand and create lasting jobs, we will never be able to break out of this vicious circle of crisis. so let's get rid of parties on the one hand and let's get rid of austerity on the other to create lasting demand and jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to denounce in this house, in this house of european citizens, yet another fraud against democracy in my country, italy. in practice, a few months before the national elections, the majority in parliament, which was elected by an unconstitutional law, is changing the rules of the game and is doing so to keep out the only real opposition force that has been there, namely the five star movement. it is doing so by using the institution of "trust", just as benito mussolini did in 1923 with the acerbo law, i.e. the trust on the electoral law. this is my appeal to you, colleagues: it's good that this is being talked about in other countries, because it's a disgrace to democracy and it's something we ask for your help on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, swordfish with excess cadmium and heavy metals, dietary supplements and foods with unauthorized ingredients and novel foods, peanuts from china and chili peppers from india contaminated with carcinogenic aflatoxins, peppers from turkey with pesticides beyond the limits: these are just some of the most dangerous products listed by coldiretti, the largest association representing agriculture in italy. the data are from a dossier drawn up on the basis of the latest report on the european rapid alert system, which records alerts for food hazards due to chemical residues, mycotoxins, heavy metals, microbiological pollutants, dioxins, additives and colours. we need more guarantees for european consumers, we cannot rely solely on the european alert system. europe needs to do much more in terms of traceability, labelling and transparency to prevent potentially harmful products from reaching the tables of millions of european consumers.
the first item on the agenda shall be the discussion on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 19 and 20 october 2017 and the presentation of the leaders' agenda 'building our future together' (2017/2745 ((rsp)). after the european parliament's proposals, which you will find in your offices in a summary, we heard the speech by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, on the commission's proposals, and today we will hear the president of the european council in this chamber, which wants to continue to be the place where the debate on the future of the european union takes place. that is why, at the last european council, i invited the heads of government to take part in a series of meetings in this parliament with the representatives of the european citizens. but at a time when things are happening in europe that offend our sensibilities, i would like to remind everyone that we cannot talk about the future of our union, the future of the eurozone, the future of our institutions, the future of our citizens, if we do not have the strength and the will to defend the values on which our union is founded. you're together, you're part of a community if you share values, we must always remember that. and i cannot today fail to condemn in the strongest terms what happened in rome, italy, where a group of hooligans used the image of anne frank to offend supporters of another sports club. using the image of anne frank as an insult to others is a very serious matter. everyone in our union has the right to practice his or her religion. the jewish communities are part of our european union; i am proud to have fellow europeans of the jewish faith and i believe that anti-semitism must remain only a horrible experience of our past, a horrible experience of the century that has ended.
mr president of the european commission, as regards portugal and spain, parliament shares your position and the commission's position. i should like to inform you that yesterday i announced in plenary that you, the president of the council and i have decided to give the princess of asturias prize money to the portuguese and spanish victims of the tragedy that struck those two countries a week ago.
the council has noted the impasse on brexit. president juncker was right when he said: we are in favour of an agreement, but the impasse is caused by the unpreparedness of the british government. however, the uk's withdrawal is not the only fracture affecting the european union. we have other fractures: from catalonia to northern italy, there are forces at work fomenting divisions within our europe. there is a sort of selfishness on the part of the rich, a kind of robin hood syndrome in reverse, which wants to take from the poorer regions to give to the richer ones, and i am not surprised that the tax issue is involved. there is nothing wrong with wanting more autonomy. i am a federalist, i am for a federal europe, so i want more autonomy, but not at the expense of solidarity. redistribution of resources from rich regions to poorer ones is not an act of charity, but the foundation of the citizenship pact. europe is then faced with another form of secession, which is quieter and more dramatic: the secession of the last, the detachment of those who can no longer cope. the forgotten of globalization are rebelling against the order that has been established for the last twenty years. and the paradox - we must be careful about this - is that riding the wave of this recent revolt are precisely those who have taken advantage of the system in recent years: it's often the billionaires, the multi-billionaires, who give voice to the anger of the last. many trump babies are also growing up in europe, as we saw in the recent elections in the czech republic. if we do not want a europe that is "trumped", divided and weakened, we must act now to heal this double fracture, territorial and social. president tusk presented his proposal for a new agenda for the european council: more meetings, more efficient and effective work... all right, but you have to focus not only on the method, but on the effectiveness of the results. our parliament has proved itself: the european parliament has approved the revision of the dublin rules on asylum seekers - a major step forward for the european parliament, taken together, a historic step forward - and it has approved the revision of the directive on posted workers, which is also a major step forward for the european parliament. so we, as a democratically elected institution, are responding to specific questions from our citizens on two fundamental issues, and we want these dossiers to be dealt with and finalised by agreement with the council. and we want to give substance to the social pillar, which president juncker has called for. after 20 years, we have a council, and we are not making a slogan out of the social pillar, because the citizens have had their pockets and ears full of slogans, and they need concrete measures. the secondment of workers is a concrete measure, but if we also respond to the unemployed young people, if we respond to the marginalized, to the homeless, to those who have been excluded by technological progress and who must be protected from the effects of globalisation, then we will fill that magic word "social pillar" with concrete content. finally, a warm recommendation to the council: i am not saying that the commission should be more concerned about these things and less concerned about the composition of the european parliament. it would be very strange if the european parliament told the council how it should be formed. we do not accept that the council should tell us what the european parliament should be like in 2019.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 and 2017, almost 300 000 migrants, more than half of those who arrived in europe, landed in italy and about 60% of them are not entitled to any form of international protection. apart from the usual statements of principle by the european council, no concrete commitment has been made on how the solidarity of the host countries should be distributed among the member states, especially because of the countries closing their doors and erecting barriers, while in parliament a dublin reform is being promoted as revolutionary, which only abolishes the principle of the country of first arrival on paper. with the introduction of criteria and filters which will leave economic migrants in the first countries of arrival, a relocation mechanism which will be neither immediate nor automatic and which will only be activated after security checks and after the preliminary examination of the asylum application, without the forecast of the unemployment rate to redistribute asylum seekers, this european disunion loses another opportunity to give full effect to the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility provided for in article 80 of the treaty.
madam president, i’m here supposed to talk about brexit, and i will do that, but before that i would like to make a short comment about the basis of our community identified by donald tusk. and yes, we are a territorial community; yes, we have a cultural identity; yes, we are a political community. i also would like to stress and reiterate that we are seen in the world as one of the most civilised jurisdictions, because of our social model: the social market economy - a market economy but not a market society. europe is a place where every child goes to school, every sick person has health care, every elderly has a pension, and labour rights are protected. this is always fundamental to recall for us. on brexit, we welcome the article 50 conclusions of the european council, which are fully in line with our parliament resolution. we recognise the progress and the new dynamic put in place by the florence speech of theresa may, but also we see that we are not yet there to open the second phase, as sufficient progress has not yet been reached. we look forward to the next weeks and months of negotiations in order to arrive there, and that requires to fully recognise the uk financial obligations, to fully safeguard the rights of citizens, and to fully agree on the common principles on the irish issue. we are at touching distance, yes, but we also need to arrive to a conclusion and we encourage our uk counterpart to be constructive at the negotiations table.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is the unit of measurement by which we evaluate the results of a european council? the strategic vision, the speed of decision-making, the resoluteness in dealing with problems, the solidarity between member states? if these were the criteria, we are far from satisfied, starting with the immigration issues where, in addition to the worn-out and now useless expressions of solidarity, progress seems imperceptible. you have the opportunity, mr president-in-office, to refute me by approving the reform of the dublin regulation at an unbiblical time, as parliament did last week. the digital sector also needs a leap forward, despite the first fruits of the strategy launched by the european commission in 2015. this will require vision, speed, resolve and solidarity, starting with the establishment of a fair tax regime for web operators. in this respect, we welcome the initiative of a number of countries, led by germany, france, italy and spain, but to which others have already joined, and we hope for a swift and even more ambitious response at union level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr tusk, we voted by a large majority in the libe committee on thursday for an ambitious reform of dublin, which parliament is bringing to the negotiations with the council in defiance of national selfishness, but with which we are also sending a strong signal to the citizens of europe. at least one of the three institutions is putting in place joint solutions based on solidarity. the biggest breakthrough is that we have finally removed the hypocritical first country of access criterion and replaced it with a permanent relocation mechanism, in which all member states must participate. we're ready to go. council, where are you? what elements did you agree on? it is a shame that the debate on dublin is being delayed until spring and that you have spent a year and a half with the commission's proposal on the table just trying to externalize our borders, while on internal solidarity you have not been able to make a single step forward. do me a favor, president tusk: i'm not going to be a part of this. he said he would remind governments that by signing the treaties they had also signed article 2. remind them that this also applies to article 80, which calls for solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. you want to be the guardian of european unity, as you say? then make parliament's proposal your own, because there is no unity without solidarity. it is not quotas that have no future, mr president, but a union based on mere façade unity.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, what our citizens expect of us is that we provide european answers where european answers are necessary, that we provide the answers that will allow them to regain control of their destinies individually and collectively, that we provide the answers for issues that are manifestly beyond the control of individual member states. that is our mission. if we are to be successful in our mission we, the three institutions represented here today, need to act collectively. if we are successful in providing answers that work for our citizens, europe will be rewarded for it. if we are not successful in providing these answers we will all share the blame. the blame-game here – saying ‘parliament did the right thing’, ‘the commission did the right thing’, or ‘the commission failed’, ‘parliament failed’ or ‘the council failed’ – is useless because our citizens do not distinguish between our institutions. they will say that europe has failed. so, in that sense, we are in this together. two of the institutions now represented here today only have limited time left before the next elections and before the next commission will come in. we need to make the best use possible of that limited time. that is why in a moment i will go to the college meeting to decide on the commission work programme for next year, and then present that programme here in parliament this afternoon. i think the work programme will contain the concrete steps that will allow us to deliver on the promises we are making to our citizens, and it will allow us to use the 18 months that we have left in our mandates to effectively show that europe can come up with answers when it is called upon to do so.
president of the european council. – mr president, i would just like to clarify a few misunderstandings. the leaders’ agenda is not an alternative version of the state of the union address. it is a plan on how to organise the work of the european council in the next two years. the leaders’ agenda is not about changing the community method. it is an attempt to speed up decision-making processes under binding rules while respecting the competences of all institutions, and that includes the competences of the european council. according to the treaty, when it comes to the composition of the european parliament, we – this house and the european council – must work out a common solution. it is not our pleasure or ambition, but our formal obligation. i am the last one to want to violate the treaty and our rules. by the way, the composition of the european parliament will not be the only topic for the extraordinary european council in february. we will also deal with the mff. i personally consider the mff to be an even more important part of our meeting in february. as for the spitzenkandidaten, the european council was not the weak link in 2014. jean—claude juncker was elected by 26 to 2 votes in the european council, whereas in parliament he got 422 out of 729 votes. so it is easy to imagine a situation in which it would be more difficult for the winning spitzenkandidat to win sufficient support in the european parliament than in the european council.
i thank the president of the european council. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the clear victory of the populists in the recent elections in the czech republic tells us that the 'window of opportunity' opened in the aftermath of brexit and announced by president juncker in his state of the union speech will not be long-lasting. i welcome the adoption of the leaders' agenda, which sets out the timetable for the work over the next two years. what i do not agree with is the way in which the issues are being dealt with. the immigration one will be with us for a long time, but further efforts are needed to establish a permanent eu presence in libya and provide adequate and targeted funding for migration-related projects in north africa. parliament is speeding up the amendment of the dublin regulation. there is not the same commitment on the part of the member states. i am also puzzled by the openness towards the united kingdom. at present, prime minister may's recognition of the debt has not yet translated into a firm and concrete commitment to honour those obligations in full and right now we cannot afford any misunderstandings.
as president, as a citizen and as a journalist, i want to express my outrage at the brutal murder of daphne caruana galizia. (applause) i would like to thank she was a brave woman, a great journalist. he interpreted the essence of this profession: he was not afraid of anyone, and he was not afraid to do his duty consistently and to the end. in her thirty-year career, she never lost her nerve, she kept shining a light on the opacity, she kept it straight, she only answered her readers, the only ones she felt she had to answer to. in this spirit, he has published more than 20,000 articles, exposing abuses of power, corruption, and misgovernment. like any true journalist, he was the sentry, the soldier on the front lines defending our values. it is only through a free and independent press that we can have and defend democracy, the rule of law, freedom of expression and all the fundamental rights on which the european construction and our civilization itself rest. our union is much more than a market, a currency or a bank. it is a reflection of these values, of our identity, with the dignity and freedom of the person at its core. to defend it every day, outside and inside the union, we must assert the independence of the press. i am proud of this parliament, which has always stood firmly on this front. daphne's murder must not go unpunished. how can we continue to defend the world's journalists with any credibility if we cannot give them protection and justice in our own home? i expect the maltese authorities to make every effort to shed light on this matter. every lead must be followed up, and i think it is necessary to involve europol in an international investigation where all police forces can contribute to the arrest and conviction of the perpetrators. (applause) this is the international engagement that i called for at the last meeting of the heads of state and government of the european union. the example daphne set for us must not be forgotten. that is why last night the bureau decided to name the european parliament's press room here in strasbourg after daphne caruana galizia. (applause) we have his family with us in the gallery. i would like to express our closeness to her husband, three children and daughter-in-law, as well as to the thousands of maltese who took to the streets on sunday to demand justice and to remember her commitment. these maltese are joined by half a billion european citizens. (parliament raised its hands in applause for the family of daphne caruana galizia) the european parliament will not stop dealing with the murder of his wife, your mother, his mother-in-law until the truth is known. we will not be silent until the perpetrators and killers of this murder are discovered. i ask you all to rise in respect of this woman and to join us in a minute's silence in memory of daphne caruana galizia. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe 17% of young people are unemployed, and this figure is unfortunately more than double that in some regions - my own, for example, sicily. youth unemployment is the greatest political and economic emergency that europe, in my view, has to face. the youth guarantee is one of the european union's most important programmes for job creation, but it often works better in theory than in practice. i voted in favour of this report because the implementation of the youth guarantee must be improved by strategic choices, aimed above all at the good use of the funds. the data show that internships, even if they are training, almost never create real jobs, because at the end of the period the companies do not hire the young people. the most effective are self-employment programmes, just to give an example, in start-ups. improving the spending of the youth guarantee therefore means that administrations must make strategic choices to provide real support for youth employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the drugs market is unfortunately changing very rapidly and thanks to e-commerce, new drugs, psychoactive substances and synthetic drugs are being created every day, drugs which are not yet banned because they are being transported, in fact, through a world which is moving faster than laws and sanctions: the world of the web. and it's in this limbo that crime does business. i voted in favour of this regulation because drug trafficking, more than any other, is international and transfrontier, and that is why the measures to combat it must be european. it is necessary to go ahead with measures to ban production, manufacture, placing on the market, import into the union and then transport and export. the rapid alert system should be improved in the event of drugs being trafficked on the web and criminal law rules should be introduced to punish manufacturers, suppliers and distributors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this is the most appropriate time to talk about drugs. drugs that are beyond the control that agencies and governments can exercise, drugs that undermine the health of our children and, most importantly, create instability in society. these are drugs that often find their way through the black market and also through the web, which becomes the easiest tool to be able to buy them, and this without age limits and without any effective control. i believe that this measure, and above all the classification of these drugs, by putting them in this proper context, is one of the measures that parliament can take most immediately, precisely in order to ensure that the right repression goes all the way, above all to safeguard the weakest elements of society, who are often the ones who fall prey to these illegal markets, markets which then become instruments not merely of death but of profit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report was based on the desire to increase the use of organic fertilisers, thereby contributing to the development of the circular economy, and to reduce the european union's dependence on fertilisers imported from third countries. we have asked for the choice of european farmers to be extended to fertilisers made from recycled organic material, but even on such an important issue europe is lagging behind. as much as 50% of the fertilisers currently on the market are excluded from the scope of the existing legislation. this house could and should have dared to do more: legislate clearly for farmers and give them the opportunity to recycle nutrients in a more sustainable way. organic fertilisers must be clearly classified, avoiding misleading the user with complex labels. i have tabled amendments in the committee on agriculture to emphasize the specific nature of these substances and their use by farmers, and to stress the difficulties in determining the exact percentage of substances harmful to health and the environment. i have called for the introduction of a green label for fertilisers which are particularly low in pollutants, pollutants which impoverish the soil and expose our agriculture to various plant diseases, as in the case of codiro, erroneously known as xylella fastidiosa. for these reasons, we did not support it and therefore had to vote against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the agea report because it is in continuity with the 2010 resolution on the minimum income. it is a step forward, but there are certainly many more steps to be taken, both by parliament and by the commission, which, instead of explaining and making explicit a fragile social pillar, could issue a directive on the minimum income. i will not stop fighting, as i have done since the beginning of this parliamentary term, for a self-determination income, as the feminist movement so authoritatively calls it, so that the right to exist is guaranteed in this continent in an unconditional and universal way. the self-determination income and the european minimum wage are the preconditions for european social citizenship and for the european project to have a future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the only thing the european union is proposing on immigration is to put its trust in extraordinary people like erdoğan on the one hand and the libyan militia gentlemen on the other, who are supposed to guarantee the security of european citizens. good show and good luck! we eurosceptics are accustomed to attacking the european union as a construct that is alien to the conscience of the peoples. we have proof of that: it happened in catalonia and, a few weeks later, in another of the areas like catalonia most productive, of honest people, who work and produce: in lombardy and veneto, millions and millions of people are going to vote, they want a referendum. it is a great demonstration, just like the one in barcelona, of the desire for freedom, direct democracy, participation and representation. there is a great crisis of representation in this europe, which you say is projected towards more democracy. but if we do not talk about it now, if your document does not even remotely examine the catalan question, the question of northern italy and the question of minorities who demand representation, what kind of new democracy would this be? you do not have the courage, you are far from feeling, and the only solution is the europe of the peoples and regions, not that of the bureaucracy, the banks and the multinationals that you care so much about.
madam president, i welcome the commission working programme on the emu and also the key choice that has been made for the community method. this has a number of implications, and i would like to focus on them, in particular on two implications. first, the esm integration into eu law is really essential. it is essential because with article 352 of the treaty we will have full ep involvement via the consent procedure; it is essential because it will ensure ep scrutiny to the new body; it is essential because this is the only way to obtain the meaningful budget line that is in your programme; and it is also essential if we want to fully safeguard commission competences on economic policy coordination and budgetary surveillance, including by avoiding to building up a parallel capacity to do article 4 reports by the esm. second, on the fiscal compact incorporation: incorporation requires reform which means also that full co-decision procedure and double legal basis are necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago president juncker, in his address to this house, outlined a scenario on which to build the foundations of our union: freedom, equality and the rule of law. today his words go in the same direction and instill in us a cautious optimism. you confirm to us that your vision of europe is the same as ours and that the months that separate us from the end of this parliamentary term will be decisive in consolidating the foundations of a europe that is more united, stronger but also more democratic, capable of having a real impact on the international scene and, above all, of facing together with its allies the main global challenges that await us in a few years' time. mr president, you can consider this house your main ally, but above all we have already shown you that we never back down, especially after we have approved dublin. i call on the commission to continue along the path of...
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is a great pleasure and opportunity to address you for the second time during this budget process, as i did on 12 september. i wish to reiterate the same main points i made at the time: that the council will continue to prioritise the highest european added value points in its 2018 budget proposal, as it has already been doing. and we intend to do that during those three weeks that, mr mureşan has already highlighted, stand ahead of us. we stand to stimulate jobs and growth, bolster security and work with migration. at the same time, as you have noticed, the council has expressed a clear determination to see sufficient margins in the 2018 budget, as this is only prudent. in its deliberations, the council has scrutinised the implementation capacity extremely carefully to ensure the realistic and efficient use of eu citizens’ funds. consequently, after the council adjustments none of the priority areas will see a drop in funding relative to the 2017 budget. i will take, and i have taken, due note of various amendments to council positions that parliament has discussed and will discuss. allow me to make a few very brief remarks in this connection. we are extremely pleased to see that the financial gap between the council position and parliament’s position is lower than in many previous years. the council is, however, extremely concerned about significant increases to certain appropriations proposed by the european parliament that go beyond the ceiling fixed in the multiannual financial framework. second, the alarmingly high rate of under-implementation of the union’s budget, as confirmed by the last amending budget of 2017, and the payments forecast for the next year, as recently published by the commission, argue for taking a very frugal approach in order to preserve the credibility of both the budget process and the participating institutions. that said, our course of action over the coming weeks has been set out in order to reach a balanced and satisfactory agreement on the 2018 budget. the council is set to keep to the schedule agreed between our institutions on budget negotiations and to reach an agreement within the deadlines laid down in the treaty.
member of the commission. mr president, mr kivine, mr mureşan and mr ashworth, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on the quality of their preparatory work. they have produced an impressively broad position of parliament. i also thank you for the amendments you propose, because your amendments would avoid cuts in the commission's draft budget, and in some areas they go beyond the budget proposed by the commission. i think we have all made two priorities in this 2018 budget, which may be the last normal budget not yet affected in any way by brexit: growth and employment - we should do everything to strengthen the tender seed of growth in most european regions and more jobs in many regions - and secondly, to successfully tackle the issue of migration and external and internal security at european level. the commission's approach to the budget is different from that of the council, parliament and the commission. in fact, if there is goodwill on the part of all parties involved, it should be possible to reach agreement on a 2018 budget in the conciliation committee in the next three weeks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial perspective. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, including the one on competitiveness and research, the one on the youth employment initiative and the one on european external aid. we can understand the higher approaches of parliament. we would like to mention here, however, that there are agreements between the council and parliament, particularly with regard to the mid-term review, which should not be abandoned in the 2018 budget either. the increases: firstly, competitiveness. the commission is proposing to increase the budget for competitiveness programmes by eur 1.4 billion under heading 1a. we strongly support this, because we can demonstrate in the budget implementation of the last years that, for example, horizon 2020 or the connecting europe facility are highly efficient investment programmes with which we can demonstrate added value at european level in the interests of the member states, our economy, our people. that is why i am very interested in this increase. you want to secure and increase the necessary funds for growth and employment programmes. this is also welcome. we should nevertheless remember and respect previous agreements. the measures to support young people: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. this is why we decided in the mid-term review to extend the employment initiative and to increase funding by a total of eur 1.2 billion between 2017 and 2020. we should consider further measures in the next few days, along the existing unemployment rate and the absorption capacity in the member states, to make a sensible use of the money. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european solidarity corps. we respect this, because the legislative process is not yet complete and therefore has to wait. but we should do everything possible to ensure that there is no interruption in the initial phase of our european solidarity corps and that young volunteers who have applied and who want to join can continue to make use of their willingness to volunteer without interruption. the european union's external assistance, section iv europe in the world, global europe: this is where we tackle the causes of flight and migration. the increase in the number of jobs is also understandable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can understand that politically. it is very important to me that we remain active on the subject of the turkey-eu agreement. you will have read that six member states - austria, denmark, finland, france, sweden and germany - have now asked us to allow the eu-turkey refugee agreement to continue. i can tell you that the three billion which have been made available to us by the european budgetary realignment and fresh funds from the member states in the form of commitments have now been largely used up. the payments follow train after train. but if we want to remain credible, if we want to co-finance human dignity for refugees from syria, iraq, afghanistan, who are currently living and living in turkey, then we need to talk about the next three billion now. this will certainly be a major focus of our discussions in the conciliation procedure in the coming days. i do not see any fundamental contradictions, but rather a willingness to reach an agreement. i should also like to mention that our letter of amendment no 1 of 16 october deals with agricultural expenditure and that we have made some adjustments to it for the sake of updating it and that it includes an increase in the amounts for young farmers. i look forward to a debate today and then to good discussions, mr minister and mr rapporteur, under your leadership in the coming weeks, with the aim of having a stable budgetary framework for next year in a few weeks' time.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking as rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee. we have succeeded in trying to allocate a separate budget line for daphne iii under the rights, equality and citizenship programme. the daphne programme allocates financial resources to the protection of children, young people and women against all forms of violence and aims to achieve a high level of protection of health and well-being. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. the majority of my colleagues in our committee also voted to continue funding the institute for gender equality so that it can use all its expertise and resources to set up a european observatory on femicide and violence against women. finally, to encourage women's participation in the economy, we agreed on the need to allocate funds to support female entrepreneurship in the cosme programme.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – mr president, i am intervening on behalf of ms hübner, chair and rapporteur of the committee on constitutional affairs, who unfortunately cannot be present. i am very pleased that in its reading on the 2018 budget, parliament is defending the spending for programmes that encourage citizens’ participation in the democratic life of the union, such as europe for citizens, the european citizens’ initiative and the line dedicated to communication of commission representations with citizens. 2018 is the year where preparations for the european elections in 2019 will be in full swing, and we should take this opportunity to inform citizens of their rights and the impact their vote carries for themselves and for europe as a whole. this was the main concern of our committee, and i am glad the committee on budgets took our suggestions into consideration.
i would like to thank mr mureşan, the rapporteur, for the work he has done and for the way he has wanted to involve the whole of parliament and all the political groups in the preparation of this budget, which we are presenting today and which we will vote on tomorrow. i thank him for his availability and for having understood and interpreted the requests that have come from the citizens and also for having presented the budget today. i say this very frankly, so that there is no misunderstanding: i think we all agree in this house, at least we members, that this is not yet the budget we want, because we cannot think that a budget of 1% of europe's gdp is satisfactory and that it provides answers to the challenges we face. and these are not trivial challenges: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. we are trying to give some answers with this budget, we are trying to give those answers which we think, from our point of view, the citizens are asking us: the additional €600 million we are putting into the youth initiative, the increases to restore the correct figures that the commission had put in horizon 2020, on the cef, all this means giving opportunities to our companies, our universities, our research institutions, to the municipalities and the regions, that is what it means. in the same way, on the subject of migration, we are trying to make a reasoning, finally, that goes beyond the logic of the crisis, because we can no longer talk about a migration crisis, but can instead give answers that are durable over time, both in terms of humanitarian aid and in terms of welcome in our countries and therefore have resources also for solidarity even if solidarity, honestly, cannot be bought and has no figure, that one must be given. you see, minister kivine, i heard your words: you are concerned, you said you were concerned about the increases proposed by parliament. i am honestly concerned about the rise in unemployment figures, to give you an example. and i believe that the conciliation we are about to open in a few weeks is a phase in which we must seek answers to those concerns and not to concerns about budgetary rules. i also see that we are all concerned about the growing popularity of populist, anti-european parties and so on. i'm trying to give you a solution, i'm trying to tell you what the answer might be: i'm going back to politics. to return to politics and to respond to the real and concrete problems of the citizens. i think, mr minister, that there are opportunities in the conciliation phase which is opening up. it's up to you. i do not want to be disrespectful, but i am a little tired - i think we all are - of hearing heads of state and government tell us that this europe is not working, and then when there is an opportunity to put something in place, to give answers and to have a europe that works, then there is no political will to give those answers. there's a deal, there's a possibility of a deal. we're getting there, we can do it. what you call a satisfactory and balanced agreement, mr minister, must be a satisfactory agreement for the citizens and a balanced one in terms of the answers to the challenges i have listed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret to point out to this house that again this year no effort has been made to try to reduce the cost of policy. parliament wants to restore most of the cuts made by the council in many items where concrete and substantial savings could be expected, especially in administrative expenditure. the parliament itself has planned to increase its costs, increasing its budget by 2,3% compared to 2017. we are talking about almost two billion, again this year, on the backs of taxpayers. the cost of policy is unfortunately increasing every year, the double seat of brussels and strasbourg continues to cost hundreds of millions a year and, although there is a majority in this parliament and among the member states, it is not being eliminated. european funding for parties and foundations has continued to increase, from less than 17 million in 2009 to a proposal of almost 52 million for 2018. this budget line, which the five star movement rightly does not use, should be completely cancelled. the gap between the privileges of politicians and the enormous sacrifices required of citizens is still too wide. just think of the privilege of the members of this parliament: the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly. in addition to administrative waste, we believe that we must cut back on useless and harmful projects, such as the turin-lyon railway line, which does not add any value to the sometimes criminal dome of public contracts and subcontracts, which, in the case of infrastructure works in italy, have been shown to work very well. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment. finally, there is a point which is fundamental for us, and that is the one concerning breeding and funding for bulls. it is important that this item should no longer be financed because it is a medieval tradition, which in no way supports the founding principles of the european union, and by continuing to allow the regularity of this funding we continue to finance a barbaric and medieval practice. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. an environmental and economic impact assessment must be carried out when spending a lot of money. the turin-lyon project is worth tens of billions of euros over the next few years. i believe that there are other priorities than this useless work, when one could, above all, spend less, fix the existing line. this type of mega-infrastructure projects usually make money for the big subcontractors who then, very often, also have organized crime, as far as italy is concerned, and companies that work, even cross-border, between france and italy. so we must better assess the infrastructure projects, including the turin-lyon link, which should not be financed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the budgetary procedure lacks courage and shows that the european union is a failed project, a project that will not have a great future. as usual, we are witnessing this negotiation, this debate, where the commission is asking for more resources - every year it is asking for an increase in the budget allocation - and the council and the member states want to cut and refuse to give more resources, and would rather have some of it back. i think this really shows that this project cannot go on. we must ask ourselves why the member states do not want to invest additional resources in the budget but want to keep them on their own territory to invest them in another way, without sending them in a complex way to brussels. there will be a reason why they prefer not to invest in an instrument which is not currently delivering the results they hope for in terms of growth, in terms of new development, in terms of job creation. the reality is that the european union budget is now burning billions of euros in failed projects, which have failed to achieve the objectives that were promised to us. i am talking about the juncker plan, i am talking about the billions spent on the youth guarantee, i am talking, for example, about the new projects on common defence or on supporting funds for africa. my question is: if we are already struggling to achieve results within our own borders, imagine what the results can be if we go to work in other countries. and of course there's a steady increase in administrative costs. what is the european union doing? he decides to ask for more money for propaganda, to tell the citizens who have discovered the deception of the union how beautiful the european union is and how many beautiful things it does. this is not the way to go, and we shall see in the coming months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament's position on the european budget for 2018 is very clear on the cultural side: we are not using erasmus+ as a treasure trove to be drawn from as needed. the restoration of the budgetary allocation diverted to the european solidarity corps is not a contradiction to the initiative, but the adoption and reaffirmation of the right order of things. the formal proposal to increase funding for the youth sector of erasmus is also more appropriate than ever, a unanimous position of the cult committee, which is part of the strategy to reach more and more young people outside the traditional training paths with erasmus funding. the commission is therefore proposing to increase the amount of erasmus+ funding in the next financial framework and make it a programme for all europeans. more generally, if we want a europe that is more in line with its ambitions, then the 2018 budget will start a path towards a significant increase in the appropriations for the next financial framework, to be achieved to a greater extent with own resources. it is no longer an elusive choice. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i think you are raising a more general problem. it is clear that if we move towards the management of own resources, the transfers from the member states will be reduced. this is a choice of field, but also a choice to strengthen the european union. i think you disagree because you clearly have a preconceived political position; unfortunately, dialogue, when there are preconceptions, is very difficult. i am not supporting anything you have said with my position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable growth and employment, especially youth employment, security and climate change must remain at the top of our agenda. the council's proposed cuts must therefore be rejected, since it has stated that it is prepared to spend in those areas where the european funds provide greater added value, unless it then proposes a series of cuts. if the european union is to be credible, it must invest in research, innovation and policies to tackle unemployment, by providing more funds to programmes such as the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020 and by allocating adequate resources to youth employment initiatives, without neglecting the agricultural and cohesion policies, which are the real backbones of the european economy. more resources should also be allocated to address both the internal and external dimensions of the migration and refugee crisis in order to follow up policies undertaken in this field. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the murder of daphne caruana galizia is an attack on european democracy. frans timmermans said it well: the murder of a journalist for her work is an attack on freedom of information and freedom of thought, which is a fundamental value of the european union. whoever ordered and carried out this attack is an enemy of europe. we need to catch the people responsible as soon as possible: the european union and the member states are putting the best investigators at the disposal of maltese investigators, as requested by the prime minister and the maltese government. but beyond the judicial truths, there is a political response that challenges us all. when i saw the bombing a week ago, i immediately thought of my country, italy, and the mafia bombs that killed judges falcone and borsellino. those bombs marked a turning point in the fight against the sicilian mafia and the italian state won its battle because it proved ruthless and united. today we need to be united, among ourselves. all those who love freedom of thought and democracy are united in this fight. and it is not true that the european parliament has been silent on these issues. the european parliament set up a committee of inquiry into the panama leaks a year ago, and in the course of its work it met daphne. last week the first conclusions of the inquiry were approved: the commission has already taken steps to combat the international mafia, to combat money laundering and to eliminate illegal flows (we are united on this point!), to blacklist tax havens and to impose sanctions on those who are complicit in such activities. these are the things that the special committee has asked for and that europe must do now. we must defend the freedom of the press better, and i share this imperative and concern. journalism, especially investigative journalism, will always be uncomfortable, it must be uncomfortable, because it is counterpower and without that counterpower democracy and the rule of law are weaker. we need powers and counter-powers, that's democracy. we must therefore create the conditions for journalists to work throughout europe and the world and the world! russian journalists everywhere should be safe, so that their sources are protected. we have just voted this morning on a resolution calling on the european commission to come forward with a proposal on whistleblowers, on the protection of whistleblowers, who are an important source for finding out who is responsible. we are moving forward on this road, and i too would like to greet and express the thoughts of my political group, and also my staff, to the families of daphne and to reiterate that it is a moral duty, rather than a political one, to ensure that this loss, so painful and so severe in its development, is not in vain.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president pittella was right when he said that the explosion of a bomb takes us back to a dark time for our country: the murders of judges, the activities of the mafia. but i regret to say that we in italy do not yet know who the perpetrators of these murders and massacres are, and perhaps they are still in parliament or in positions of power. that is something we must remember when we talk about daphne caruana galizia, who came to this parliament. when she came to us, she was already threatened, she was isolated, she was killed alive, as some have rightly said. she was left alone, she was killed in the most barbaric way, giving a signal to everyone, saying, "be careful, if you touch these exposed nerves, something like this will happen to you", because this was done to her: she came here, she said a lot of things, she also accused maltese politicians, she did it in her life, she touched open nerves, she touched sensitive things and we have to be careful now, we have to give a different answer than what has been given so far. because if it is true that president tajani today made a commitment to the families, saying that there would be an investigation and that executors and principals would be found, we must all make a commitment to make this happen, otherwise this parliament will look ridiculous, so let us remember this.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot but express, and we express this as a group, our great respect for the ceremony, for the noble and heartfelt words with which the president of this parliament introduced this day this morning. the political assessment is different, and i think we must be very strict about the situation that made this murder possible, which reminds us italians of so many things. i would also like to mention the example of another great journalist, the journalist de mauro, who was really one of the first victims of this endless slaughter of journalists, heroes of investigative journalism. the problem is very clear and simple to state. does the commission have the necessary powers to act, as we have heard, since it is not doing and has not done anything serious to empty those black holes, housed in tax havens, of the hidden, parallel finance through which the money, the billions of dollars of drug trafficking, oil, smuggling and all that this courageous journalist had denounced is being transported? you're not in the right!
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have listened carefully to the contributions from the members of this parliament. today, for the commission, is about honouring the memory of daphne, it is about sharing our grief in this parliament. but i fully recognise that the only way we can really honour her memory is by following up on the issues that underlie the assassination. this starts, of course, with a full investigation of what has happened and bringing to justice those who are responsible. as i said in my contribution, if in this investigation, and in the course of this analysis, things are brought to light that are of a more structural nature or that warrant other actions, the commission will certainly not hesitate to assume its responsibility, where we have a responsibility. let me also add that in our work programme for next year we have insisted on the need, jointly with the european parliament, to come up with a better protection of whistle-blowers. this is also an important step we need to take. my colleague věra jourová promised to the special committee of inquiry on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana) in july that we would also step up our efforts to implement the decisions we have taken on fighting money laundering. i can, for instance, give as an example that we have now – let me just check the numbers – we have opened infringement cases that concern 14 member states which have not notified laws transposing the 4th directive and two member states whose laws clearly show that these were not sufficient to transpose the directive. we will continue this work in close contact also with this parliament. we are always prepared to engage directly with the maltese authorities at a political level to make sure that they implement the rules that we agreed at european level. let me end on the following. the effect of such a public display of barbarism – which this assassination was – the intended effect, of course, is to intimidate, to make sure that no investigation is carried out any more, that nothing is pursued, that others will be self-censoring their own investigation. i think this is the biggest challenge we face: that we are not intimidated by what was done; that we as europeans collectively accept the responsibility in the eu to make sure that we are not intimidated; that institutions can function independently; that perpetrators are brought to justice; that if this is linked to organised crime or to corruption, that this is pursued. and this commission will leave no stone unturned in that area to make sure that this atrocious, barbarous assassination does not lead to the conclusion which is clearly wanted by those who perpetrated it, namely that we don’t dare ask questions or we don’t dare investigate. this will not happen. this is a promise i make on behalf of the commission, and this is how we will pursue the issue in close cooperation also with the maltese authorities and other bodies that could be implicated in the investigation.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, just as first vice-president timmermans has just done on behalf of the commission, on behalf of the council i can assure you that we will follow the developments closely, and i will pay particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate. the estonian presidency, and the council as a whole, attach great importance to the protection of journalists and the defence of media freedom. we are all shocked by the appalling circumstances of the death of ms daphne caruana galizia. words of condemnation are never sufficient. we are confident that the maltese law enforcement authorities are capable of upholding the rule of law in the face of this atrocious murder and will conduct the investigation, with international assistance if needed.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2004/37/ec on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work (com (((2016) 0248 c8-0181/2016 2016/0130 ((cod)) (a8-0064/2017).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after the last update of the legislation on carcinogens, we are finally making progress. the work of the rapporteur, mrs ulvskog, is truly remarkable. with the agreement reached at the trilogue, we can say that we have added a new element to the fight against cancer, which remains the second leading cause of death at work in europe, as commissioner thyssen rightly pointed out. in dealing with many substances affecting different production sectors, we have been obliged to make an effort to ensure the balance of the various interests at stake, starting of course with the health of the workers. it will be essential to ensure that the rules are properly implemented, involving the social partners. a good example is the nepsi agreement, an excellence in social and sectoral dialogue. the health of workers is not to be taken lightly and we will therefore continue to do our part as a european parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we too support this commission proposal because it actually improves the protection of workers at the workplace against exposure to carcinogens and mutagens. we therefore also support the proposal by the empl committee of the european parliament to include substances which are harmful to the reproduction of workers in the scope of this directive. we must remember that we are talking about substances which have a threshold effect and therefore, in fact, even minimal exposure to these substances creates a not negligible risk for those workers to develop cancer diseases in the course of their lives. unfortunately, the data is alarming, as you said before: 53% of all deaths at work are attributable to cancer, but there are 100,000 or more cases in the european union. so we are faced with a real health emergency, which must see us engaged with the utmost effort, without any uncertainty or hesitation. until now, unfortunately, the experience of the workers has preceded scientific research: this has happened in the coal industry, it has happened in the asbestos industry but also in the handling of radioactive substances. enough now, the workers can't be treated like guinea pigs. so we invest in finding innovative solutions, alternative solutions that can protect workers and their families from the curse of cancer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that one of the most important objectives for the european institutions and for this parliament is that of work: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe, and i am pleased to see that the commission is now proposing a number of measures to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. there 's no doubt about it . exposure to carcinogens is the leading cause of illness and death among unprotected workers. i would also like to stress the risk to pregnant workers and all workers if they are exposed to endocrine disrupting mutagens. the principle of the precautionary approach is therefore a sensible choice, apart from, of course, stressing the need to promote an assessment of the costs which have a heavy impact on health expenditure, but also on social expenditure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cancer is the leading cause of work-related death in the european union, at 53%, a very worrying figure in an advanced society such as ours, which should ensure the health of citizens and workers. the protection of health at work must indeed become a priority on the european agenda. i therefore welcome the revision of the directive on carcinogens and mutagens, as it is essential for better protection of workers. however, i believe that the precautionary principle should be applied more forcefully in our legislation. individual potentially carcinogenic substances not yet included in the exposure limits should also be assessed more closely: i think, for example, of endocrine disruptors. there is a need for closer cooperation between the european union and the member states, which should provide clearer and more comprehensive data to enable the union itself to promote best practice. finally, the scope of the directive should be extended to include toxic agents, which are treated too lightly in the directive on chemical agents, despite the fact that they are very dangerous to human health.
member of the commission. – mr president, once more, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for reaching a balanced compromise that will clearly make a difference for workers’ protection from now on. as always, we take note of your questions and remarks and, as i said, our work will not stop here. this legislative proposal is a first step in a series of forthcoming initiatives in this area. i am pleased that in june this year the council reached a general approach on our second proposal to amend the directive. this confirms the political commitment of both the commission and the member states to fight occupational cancer. i count on the european parliament to adopt its position on this second batch so that the interinstitutional negotiations should start as soon as possible. dear members of parliament, some of you mentioned diesel engine exhausts and that this is one of the 25 chemical agents evaluated that are of a major concern for causing occupational cancer. why have we not yet proposed an occupational exposure limit (oel)? diesel engine exhaust is a complex issue, in particular in terms of defining exposure and identifying adequate measurement methods. it contains different components depending on the type of engine used. identifying the engines that produce carcinogenic exhaust requires further analysis. the commission is continuing its efforts to find the most appropriate action, and has the intention to include diesel engine emissions (dee) in its forthcoming second phase consultation of the social partners with a view to considering to address dee in the fourth batch. work—related cancer is a real tragedy for workers and their families, and is at the same time a heavy burden for the whole of society. we now have a chance to make a real difference in people’s lives. the commission counts on your support on these legislative files that aim to further fight occupational cancer. i invite you also to continue our constructive cooperation. thank you very much, and congratulations on the results of the trialogue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 october 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mrs soraya post, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the fundamental rights aspects of roma integration in the european union: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have shown great responsibility in pursuing, even within our own divisions, a system of modernising the management of the union's external borders. that is what we are talking about, the electronic recording of data on the entry and exit of third country nationals in the schengen area. it is for that reason that personal data recorded in the input system should not be retained longer than is strictly necessary for the purposes of the data processing. we therefore call for proportionality to the objectives pursued, but we also call for the authorities, in using the system, to scrupulously respect the dignity and integrity of the persons whose data are requested. we will not accept any kind of discrimination based on sex, race, religion, color or any other kind. the system shall be used for its purpose and in no case, for any reason, to deny asylum seekers safe and effective ways of entering the territory of the union to exercise their legitimate right to international protection.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the femm committee we deal with issues such as sexual abuse and all other forms of violence against women, including in the workplace, on a daily basis. this is a sad reality, which affects every area of work, and the european parliament, alas, like any other workplace, is not immune from such deplorable behaviour. many of you have been outraged by the news reports, by this veil of omertà that has fallen on the institution of which we are a part. many others have found the courage to report small and large incidents of sexual abuse, which without this journalistic investigation would have remained silent and forgotten. it is understandable that the commission should jump on the chair in the face of such accusations, just as it is understandable that the institution should immediately clarify and clean up its act, lest it risk having its authority and honour tarnished by the infamous actions of individual persons. but let us not be hypocrites and let us not, as so often happens, do justice in the first degree and justice in the second degree. the same indignation, the same determination and immediacy in action, the same severity and zero tolerance towards such vile things must be applied within the european parliament, but equally and with the same vigour in all workplaces, both public and private. it is good to set a good example, it is good to act firmly, but let us not forget that this parliament is the mirror of what is happening outside, in the real world, where a subculture based on sexual exploitation permeates every area. how many universities, for example, have young female students who are sexually harassed by some unworthy faculty? in how many offices, including public ones, are female employees the object of special attention by their managers? and how many women are offered jobs, today more often than ever a mirage in reality still devastated by the economic crisis, in exchange for services of a professionally undefinable kind? it makes you angry to think that for every complaint that ends up in the news, there are hundreds of cases that remain silent out of fear, shame, guilt. we shall be able to say that we have done the best and have done the best for the women and also for the men who are victims of such obscene behaviour when we act against all forms of sexual abuse within the borders of the european union with the same diligence with which we are acting today to counter what is happening inside our own home.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing a subject which deeply concerns the european union and its institutions. in the wake of the weinstein case, many women have finally had the courage to come forward about harassment and abuse, even within these walls, all too often. women all over the world are afraid to speak up. 13% of women in europe said they had experienced violence at least once in their lives. so the most effective tool to date to combat sexual harassment and abuse is the istanbul convention. the latter introduces the criminalisation of violence against women, psychological violence, stalking, physical violence, sexual violence, including rape and harassment. there is no legislation in europe as a whole yet, which is why i want to stress the istanbul convention again today. the criminal laws of the member states combat violence in principle, but there are still many obstacles and therefore, as a result, there is no uniform protection of victims. what i am asking for, for parliament and for the union as a whole, is certain penalties and exemplary punishments. kofi annan says that violence against women is one of the most shameful violations of human rights, because it has no geographical, social or cultural boundaries. as long as this exists and is perpetrated worldwide we cannot have achieved high levels of development, peace, sustainability and acceptance.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, feminism has taught me, starting with myself: i'm with you. i was 19, in college. he was about 70, a fellow professor, an intellectual fellow. months later, i took the exam with another professor, and the satisfaction of that 30 and commendation with another professor, after i said no to him, i don't remember it, just like i don't remember all the time it took me to figure out what happened that day, the shame, the anger. and most of all, i'll never forget the women who helped me through that shit. i'm with you. we together. i think it is important that we as members of parliament, with the commissioner present, say 'we are together' against male violence against women. give women the strength of women, women who give themselves strength. "not one less" is now a global political movement, a global political force, which will take to the streets again on november 25 against male violence, against exploitation, against racism. why don't many women report it? because the solidarity and complicity of the machismo is still too strong, we must fight against the machismo culture, we must ratify the istanbul convention, we must do more. we together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank all the women who, through their complaints, have opened a debate which has once again highlighted all the difficulties, all the imbalances, of a debate which still sees women as victims twice over: the first is when they're abused, and the second is when they're judged, when they're still judged for how they dress, how they behave, for their sacrosanct ambitions. and so these women, ladies and gentlemen, speak for each of us, they speak for all of us, who in any situation of population, class, religion or race are subject to physical or verbal violence, subtle or explicit, but which in any case remains an intolerable limitation on our freedom of expression, our career, our life, in the end. we have a duty to go beyond this indignation, we have a duty to produce a new thought that concerns, dear comrades and colleagues, above all men: men need to stop thinking that the problem of violence against women is a women's problem. on the contrary, it is a problem which affects men in particular, and it is good to be clear about this. it is a matter for everyone, including this parliament, which must send a clear message of attention and presence and say with one voice: me too.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, sexual harassment and abuse, which still occurs, both in the family and in the workplace, and today also through the internet and new technologies (i am thinking, for example, of the so-called revenge porn), is one of the most heinous forms of violation of human rights. i'm just quoting a figure from the fra: one in ten women has experienced some form of sexual violence since the age of 15. these are abuses that often cause long-term traumatic consequences for the victims and, just as often, are not reported because they are accompanied by psychological pressures or the fear of those forms of secondary victimization that result from attitudes or behaviours of blame towards the victims. in view of this situation, the european institutions must work to combat this phenomenon more effectively. for example, the commission must continue to investigate and ensure that all member states fully implement the victims of crime directives and it is essential that all member states ratify and apply the istanbul convention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks, as a result of the scandals which have been highlighted in the media, the necessary aberration of violence against women is finally being discussed. i have said this on other occasions and i want to say it again in this house, also in the light of the latest absurd news concerning this parliament: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. in europe, almost 25% of women have experienced physical or sexual violence, but the tragedy of the tragedy is that more than one in four europeans still believe that non-consensual sex can be justified in some way. the time is ripe to tackle the issue of violence against women with determination, ensuring the implementation of existing measures and working to ensure that the principles contained in the istanbul convention are rapidly transposed into national legislation in all member countries.
in writing. this resolution condemns all forms of sexual violence and physical or psychological harassment, and encourages member states to take further measures to effectively end sexual harassment. prevention and awareness-raising are key, because we also need to act against emerging forms of violence, such as those implemented online. unfortunately, there are too many cases of harassment in this parliament too: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this sad phenomenon and to support the victims.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i only have a few seconds because i wanted to inform the house that on 17 december 2015, right here, we passed a resolution on the case of ibrahim halawa, an irish citizen who was arrested and imprisoned in egypt. yesterday, after four long years of harsh detention, ibrahim finally returned to ireland, free. unfortunately, such news is rare and for this reason it should be emphasized strongly, because it represents a great sign of hope for many people: activists, human rights defenders, journalists or lawyers unjustly imprisoned everywhere. and while we welcome the decision of the egyptian court of justice to drop all charges against ibrahim, we cannot forget the many who are still imprisoned in egypt today. it is therefore incumbent on the european parliament to continue to call with determination on the egyptian government to release all those who are imprisoned solely for exercising their right to freedom of thought, expression and association.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform the house very briefly that the hearing of the hdp chairmen will take place on 6 and 7 december and that the european institutions are being asked to monitor the progress of these processes. there is no news about president öcalan's health at the moment. this house has dealt with turkey a great deal and i think it should continue to deal with the rights of the kurdish people.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes)
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking to the commission, to this packed house: we are 26 in number, i do not know if we are being followed from home, so obviously the issue of illegal immigration is warming the hearts of my fellow members of the european parliament. i will try to repeat what we have been saying for some years as the league and as italian meps, with little success: the european union must not allow the european parliament to be the arbiter of the decisions of the council of ministers. whoever is governing europe, with the complicity of some governments - including the italian one - is serving the interests of the mafias, the ship owners, the slave owners and the multinationals of exploitation. let's talk about numbers. in the last three years at least 15 000 people have died in the mediterranean, more than 600 000 alleged refugees have landed in italy alone, who are not refugees, 30 000 children have disappeared, feeding a market in prostitution that no longer knows any rules, and three years later we are talking about what we should do. what should we do? it is not europe that is doing this, it is the national governments, including the italian one, that will do it if the league wins the elections: to protect borders; cut off contact between the ngo ships which this european institution continues to fund and the divers; we have to ensure that we have legal and positive immigration quotas for those men and women who really add value to our societies, as we do in canada, australia, switzerland and the developed countries. at the moment we are importing slaves, idlers or criminals. in tunisia, more than 4 000 offenders were released from prison in 2017 thanks to the rewards and pardons granted by the tunisian authorities. well, these are all coming to italy. italy has the record for tunisian prisoners: 67 percent of all tunisian prisoners in europe are in italy. so across the mediterranean the jails are opened and we in italy open the doors of our home. i hope that this commission will wake up, i am not so sure, and at that point we will, by facilitating the arrival of women and children who are really fleeing the war - women and children who are not seen, or are seen too little, in italy and europe - and, above all, by facilitating the arrival of legal immigration from the countries closest to our values, and i am thinking of countries with a christian culture. the rights of everyone are guaranteed here, and the rights of the roma have been dealt with even today, because if the rights of the roma are not dealt with every month in strasbourg, someone is not happy. i would remind you that islamic countries adopt an islamic declaration of human rights which stipulates that justice is to be applied only in accordance with islamic law, which stipulates that freedom of thought is to be applied only within the limits of what is provided for by islamic law, that in the matter of gender equality, which is rightly written about so much, in marriage, article 19 of the islamic declaration of human rights says that men have a certain supremacy over women. so, i'll put you in jail if i can, according to islamic law, you can say whatever you want, according to islamic law, men and women have the same rights, but men are worth a little more. i think it's time to put the rules back in place for those who want to enter europe: you have to do it legally, you have to do it positively. the rest is a matter of expulsion, rejection and defence of the frontiers. if the european commission or the european union does not want to do so because it is in the interests and logic of the multinationals, the people will do so, who will wake up and vote in germany, the netherlands, france, austria and soon also in italy.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, speaking in this very room yesterday, the president of the european council, president tusk, said that protecting our external border is the cornerstone of resolving the migration crisis. there are many aspects to this, but the fight against irregular migration and people smuggling has been at the forefront of agendas of both the european council and the council for a while now. it remains at the top of our agenda even though we have seen a dramatic reduction of almost 70% in the number of irregular migrants since spring 2016. our aim is to ensure the effective control of our external borders and stem illegal flows into the eu. we are determined to break the business model of smugglers and reduce the high number of human beings losing their lives while crossing the mediterranean sea in unseaworthy boats and flimsy dinghies. to achieve these aims, we reaffirm our commitment to strong cooperation with international partners, as well as with countries of origin, transit and destination. on both the central and the eastern mediterranean migratory routes, the eu and its member states have taken decisive action to reach these objectives. since spring 2016, we have implemented the eu—turkey statement to address the flows from turkey into greece. we have taken a number of measures to reduce the irregular migratory flows, to break the business model of smugglers and human traffickers, and to advance the effectiveness of returns. at the peak of the crisis, in october 2015, 216 000 arrivals from turkey to the eu were registered over a period of one month. subsequently, average monthly arrivals into the eu in the period from april 2016 to september 2017 were reduced to 2 465. on the central mediterranean route, we commend the significant contribution made by italy, including on a bilateral level. over the summer, a number of initiatives were taken by the presidency, the member states and the commission to complement the bilateral actions taken by italy. i refer here in particular to the commission’s action plan of 4 july and the respective presidency implementation plan. let me highlight some of the achievements so far. we have intensified efforts to train the libyan coastguard so that the government of national accord can improve the control of its territorial waters. the extension of the mandate of eunavfor med operation sophia until 31 august 2018 enables us to continue this task in a sustainable way. in the eur 46 million eu trust fund programme for border and migration management in libya, adopted in july this year, about eur 30 million are dedicated to the training, equipment and maintenance needs of the coastguard. we continue to promote the development of local communities across the migratory routes in libya. under the eu emergency trust fund for africa, projects worth eur 42 million have been contracted for this purpose. since last year, we have more than doubled our financial support for the work carried out by unhcr and iom to provide adequate reception conditions for migrants and persons falling under the international protection mandate in libya, and to coordinate assisted voluntary returns from libya and niger to countries of origin. we wish to reinforce our support to the most vulnerable groups by setting up a voluntary resettlement scheme, as presented by the commission in september in its recommendation on enhancing legal pathways for persons in need of international protection. six countries along the central mediterranean route are among priority countries for resettlement, including libya. some member states have already submitted ambitious pledges. there are many more strands that we are working on. i think it is important to bear in mind that they are nearly all medium- to long—term measures, for which patience and resilience by the eu are required. another limitation we should take into account is the unstable political and security situation in libya, preventing our full presence in the eu delegation and eu border assistance mission in tripoli and in the field. we are working very closely with our libyan interlocutors to bring about change in this country. in addition, our aim is to intensify our cooperation and, based on the european council conclusions from 19 october this year, to rapidly establish a permanent eu presence in libya. let me mention some of the actions to fight people smuggling. in the framework of the malta declaration of 3 february 2017, we now have a very efficient system for the monitoring of departure points in third countries. furthermore, the identification, detection and tracking of suspicious vessels has improved. frontex complements the eunavfor med operation sophia, to which it provides solid intelligence. europol’s european migrant smuggling centre focuses its activities on the central mediterranean route in order to target and disrupt supplies to smugglers. in an effort to further disrupt the business model of people smugglers and human traffickers, the council introduced restrictions on the export and supply to libya of inflatable boats, also known as dinghies, and outboard motors. finally, the council adopted the eu’s priorities for the fight against organised and serious international crime between 2018 and 2021. this was done in may 2017. they will include the fight against the facilitation of irregular immigration. in conclusion, despite the encouraging developments mentioned, the eu remains vigilant on all migration routes and continues a comprehensive, pragmatic and resolute approach by using all the relevant eu policies, instruments and tools.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the fight against illegal immigration and people smuggling is, and remains, one of the key features of our comprehensive migration policy. as outlined in the mid—term review of the european agenda on migration, the implementation of the action plan on smuggling adopted in may 2015 and of the measures to address illegal immigration remains a priority. we all know that while the irregular flows towards europe are decreasing overall, we have to remain vigilant. this is why we will pursue our actions to build a proper management of migratory flows to the eu to prevent irregular immigration and fight smugglers. to tackle illegal immigration along the central mediterranean, cooperation with the libyan authorities remains an important element. the training and equipment of the libyan coastguard prevents illegal immigration and helps save lives at sea. this year alone, the libyan coastguard brought back to the libyan shores more than 16 000 migrants. the eu has also engaged with the libyan authorities to allow international organisations, mainly the iom and the unhcr, to assist vulnerable migrants in libya before they embark to europe. as a result, this year the iom has assisted 8438 migrants to return safely to their countries of origin. the commission also supports the unhcr’s plan to evacuate vulnerable migrants out of libya for onward resettlement. we also continue to help sahel countries to better manage the borders and enforce their capacities in relation to the fight against migrant smuggling and trafficking of human beings. the niger project is very encouraging. more than 100 offenders have been arrested and brought to justice in the first half of 2017. more generally, in the first quarter of this year, we proposed a revision of immigration liaison officers regulation to support actions to counter migrant smuggling in third countries. this will allow exploiting the full potential of the network of european immigration liaison officers, who have been deployed in 12 priority countries to coordinate closely the work of member states on the ground. to prevent smuggling and illegal immigration, we also have to use all our leverage to improve the readmission rates of countries of origin and show more solidarity with africa to address the root causes of migration. to this effect, eur 2.85 billion has been made available by the eu trust fund for africa. the refugees who need protection will be offered alternative solutions to smuggling. by enhancing safe and legal pathways, persons in need of protection will no longer have to rely on smugglers and risk their lives to find protection in the eu. this is why the commission recommends that member states increase their resettlement efforts by at least 50 000 persons over the next two years. we are also exploring how we could enhance the legal pathways for migrants who are not in need of protection. the commission is ready to coordinate pilot projects with select third countries in 2018. moreover, to clamp down on migrant smuggling networks, member states need to increase their capacity to investigate this crime, for which timely and practical information sharing is key. national investigators must talk to each other and fully use the resources provided by the european migrant smuggling centre at europol. indeed, the european migrant smuggling centre at europol, launched in 2016, has shown substantial added value in providing operational support to member states in fighting smuggling. it has provided support and conducted proactive high—profile investigations against criminal networks, with 68 cases reported this year so far, and 93 cases in its first year of operation leading to 147 arrests in 2016, and over 167 so far. finally, we must address all the factors in our system that fuel irregular immigration, such as undeclared labour, by better enforcing the employers sanctions directive. to conclude, let me stress that we will continue to fight this ruthless business in order to save lives, to prevent irregular immigration, and to provide protection for those in need.
i would like to ask the commission and the council three questions about the battle to stop the arrival of forced migrants in europe. the first concerns the priority fight against smugglers, agreed with libya, niger and chad. we're starting to see the results. fearful of the nigerian authorities, smugglers dump migrants in the desert or lead them on roads where there is no water. the result is that the deaths in the desert increase exponentially, they don't reach the mediterranean. according to danziger, iom's head of central west africa, the number of deaths at sea has now doubled, to around 30 000 in four years. the second question concerns the libyan coast, where there is a gang war. how can we distinguish the smuggler from the militias or the coastguards that the union and italy train and pay for? according to the un high commissioner, the abuses in detention centers are appalling. the third question concerns guarantees for the assistance of the unhcr in libya. the high commissioner in tripoli said that assistance was very precarious. libya has not signed the geneva convention, nor does it have a memorandum with unhcr. the union is responsible for this africa which has been turned into our prison, for these deaths. i think we're gonna pay for the guilt we're staining ourselves with one day. i would like to say to mr salvini what you know: in the eu you have more support than you say you have.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, illegal immigration and human trafficking in the mediterranean is, above all, a gigantic business, which begins in the countries of origin of the migratory flows and continues in the european countries of destination, in those reception centres which are too often the subject of mismanagement and speculation on public funds. a phenomenon that ends up fueling sexual exploitation, corporate racketeering, shady interests and illicit activities run by criminal groups. that is why we believe it is essential to have legal and safe ways of accessing the european union, which must be involved in recognising those entitled to forms of international protection already in the countries of origin or transit. the establishment of legal pathways to the european union means having a legal alternative, means that those fleeing war and persecution would have the chance not to put their lives in the hands of unscrupulous criminals, means countering human trafficking, the crossing and deaths at sea and the pressure of migratory flows at the external borders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over the last three years europe has spent, has wasted, something like over 20 billion euros of the tax burdens of european citizens on insane policies of welcome. then you have to ask yourself: what were the effects? the answers are right in front of us: more poverty, more insecurity, more crime, more bombings. so we have to consider whether the 20 billion spent in the last three years has been a cure or has fuelled the disease of the problem. we must consider whether the 20 billion from such a rich loot was an element that fuelled the business of hospitality, which determined the negative effects of this hospitality. and i would say that to err is human, but to persevere is diabolical, so it's critical that we stop throwing public money at criminal and ongoing advocacy and change policies. i say yes to reaching out, to investing in aid at 2 euros a day in the countries of origin; i say no to throwing 40 euros a day into insane care in this country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the invasion we have seen in recent years has inflamed the debate and has divided us immensely. the added value of a compromise agreement, based on a sharing of responsibility, was and remains the only possible solution. italy as a border area has put its internal stability at risk to stem the flows. we have repeatedly called for the international community and the union to help us deal with this emergency. i am convinced that the real phenomenon to be fought is organized crime, which profits from trafficking and finances terrorism. according to figures provided by the european commission, 79% of trafficking victims are destined for prostitution and sexual exploitation, but while we must forcefully condemn traffickers and protect victims, if there is no demand there is no market. and so, in this case, i've always been a fan and i've always appreciated the nordic model and, above all, the criminalization of the client: the more rigid we are with ourselves, the less interest there will be at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has shown in recent years its political fragility in dealing with more than a migration crisis, a crisis which i would call institutional in the management of the flow of migrants. the problem of illegal immigration is not solved by policies of closure and the outsourcing of border controls to those fleeing war and poverty. the council, at the recent summit, declared that it was ready to monitor all the migration routes, but the fact that the new routes to europe could prove more dangerous than the previous ones continues to be underestimated and, above all, it continues to be overlooked that, in the meantime, tens of thousands of migrants are victims of rape, illegal detention and abuse of all kinds, paying the price of a policy that is not up to the task. it is now clear, contrary to what mr salvini imagines in his complex dream-work, that there is a need for a change of approach, one that tackles the structural challenges at the root of this process, such as underdevelopment, demographic growth, inequalities, lack of opportunities, climate change, and the need to govern this process by strengthening common legislation on asylum and immigration. only a coordinated approach, based on the principles of solidarity, fair sharing of responsibility and strong financial investment, can deliver tangible results in this decisive challenge for europe itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is now making some progress after a very long delay, and we ask the member states, the commission and the council to commit themselves very quickly to keeping their promises. but for a long time, i said, my country, italy, has been left alone, that country criticized here for a miserable and obvious escape route for the electoral campaign, here in europe, for italy. we've only been doing the search, the reception, the rescue. more than business: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have also done all the work on the countries of transit and origin, with exhausting agreements; we have proudly set the agenda in europe for migration policy, tackling the emergency and going back to the causes. the migration compact, the africa plan and the juncker plan are there because some countries asked for them; we've been working on dublin reform, other than shooting a few rounds and then leaving. here, day by day, in committees and in daily relations with colleagues, we have achieved some things. and let me say one last word, mr president, with a little generosity, as you did with mr brok. i've even heard christian values invoked to select who gets in and who doesn't. now, i'm a christian, and my religion has taught me openness and acceptance, not rejection and maybe hatred of the different.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do you really want to combat trafficking in human beings and prevent exploitation? there's only one way to do that. to open legal and secure pathways for access to the union and all member states. only then will it be possible to avoid italy and greece being the only entry points to the eu on the dangerous routes used by smugglers. it is very hypocritical to speak of irregular immigration when there is no legal way for asylum seekers or those trying to survive hunger to come, because the immigration policies of the member states are completely inadequate, including that of italy, which mr salvini knows well because his name is bossi-fini. the right wing is the queen of hypocrisy, because when we vote for solutions to equitable sharing of responsibility for the reception of refugees, which would make the phenomenon easily manageable for everyone, as in dublin, it does not take part in the negotiations and then votes against. it is a very strong voice against irregular workers, but not against those who employ them in their companies, it says 'help them in their homes' and then it votes against development aid. if you look for the reasons why people run, you'll find them much closer to home than you think. for example, did you know that african countries over the last 50 years have lost a trillion dollars in tax evasion and avoidance by corporations? we need coherent european policies on development and trade. well, there's a lot to do in our house to deal with the reasons for leaving.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate. there seems to be a broad consensus on the need to step up the fight against smugglers and irregular migration. we are on the right track, but we have to remain vigilant and implement all actions to stem irregular migratory flow towards europe. we can assure that the commission will continue its work to save lives, to put in place safe and legal pathways, to fight smuggling and to protect our external borders and return irregular migrants. to that end, we will strengthen our cooperation with key third countries. at the same time, let me stress that we also need to make progress on managing migration within europe. in this respect, member states will have to notably streamline their return procedure, in line with the return directive. we also have to work on the reform of common european asylum system. as you know, there is no single, no simple solution. we have to work on all sides.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the eu migration policy needs to be sustainable. our challenges are manifold but our goals are clear: to gradually put in place a proper asylum and migration policy with effective control of our external borders. we will pursue the work already underway, bearing in mind that, in order to be successful, all elements must be pursued jointly and all must deliver on their commitments. greece and italy, in particular, are very much on the frontline, with thousands of irregular migrants arriving every month. that requires the continued expression of solidarity from all stakeholders.
in writing. after years of emergency in italy, a significant reduction in disembarkations seems to be emerging, a sign that the new path of openness and dialogue with libya is yielding some results and is therefore a suitable policy tool to address the causes of migration at source. the european council itself, a few days ago, declared its full support for the action of my country, recognising the significant contribution made by italy in managing the migration phenomenon. however, the union must soon develop a long-term strategy, as this house has repeatedly called for, in which the development and economic growth of african states are finally placed at the centre of political action, because the sustainable management of migration can certainly no longer be based solely on emergency initiatives. the migration policy of the union and its member states must not, however, in any way entail the risk of a reduction in the fundamental rights of all those people, including many children, who seek to reach european shores to escape serious conflict, persecution or discrimination, but must, on the contrary, be directed towards countering ever more effectively trafficking in human beings and the criminal organisations that manage it.
i'm asking for a blue card. i thank the honourable member for mentioning the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. i wanted to ask him whether he did not think that the time had come to introduce sanctions against these countries, since it is precisely the most rigorous countries that very often ask the peripheral countries to comply with the rules and then are the first to break them, or else they constantly receive very mild recommendations. should we not ask the commissioner, since he is here and should answer?
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that, as is the case every time in the six-monthly procedure, there is an unacceptable report which sees a major compromise between the socialists and the people's party since the beginning of this parliamentary term against a policy of bankrupt austerity, which is being praised as meritorious by the positive data we have at this moment, when it is clear that the data are positive for a positive macroeconomic trend as a result of the expansionary monetary policies pursued by all the central banks. the exaltation of reforms in these reports is scandalous, precisely because the reforms that have been put forward are geared towards wage devaluation. this is not the way to balance those imbalances, such as the german surplus, which are swallowing up the domestic demand of the eurozone and especially of the countries of the south. we must denounce these things and we must apply the much-vaunted rules, because the surpluses of some countries, including germany and the netherlands, have reached unacceptable levels, and therefore we must face the problem head on, avoiding, as is usual in these reports, not talking about it because the popular and socialists do not like to reveal the truth about the macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to a blue-card question. i believe that there are many differences between member states, but i do not think that the reforms being pushed by the european commission, which are very often aimed at wage devaluation in peripheral countries, are a right way to solve the imbalances within the eurozone. this is the policy that is being perpetrated. we have a truly scandalous level of underemployment, especially in countries like italy where labour market reforms have been implemented. the moment there is a reversal in monetary policy, we will see the usual imbalances of the euro area emerge, so it would be appropriate to put an end to these imbalances with concrete measures towards the currency area to make it optimal, which is very difficult.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the economic policies of the euro area. i believe that the only reform worth discussing in the euro area is the dismantling of maastricht. maastricht, what came after it and what was done in preparation for this treaty and for european economic and monetary union, are now the main problem not only for the southern states but for the whole of europe. the euro and economic and monetary union, by their very nature and by their very architecture, fuel differences not only between member states but also within the various social classes of the member states. this is borne out by the votes in various countries: that's what happened in germany, where the poorest and most defeated population of these east german policies voted for parties considered extremist. i believe that the time has come to sit down and think about how to dismantle this single currency, which is not working, and to put europe back on a path of growth and development in a harmonious way and in cooperation between sovereign states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report indicates that the rules of the stability pact must be interpreted intelligently. i say this because flexibility is the rule, not a nice concession. in recent years, the european semester has shown its limits, as macro data remain uneven. if we want to return to convergence, we must put economic growth, social inclusion and convergence at the heart of the semester. the rules of the pact and the single currency cannot, of course, solve the structural problems of the euro area on their own. it is therefore crucial that clear decisions be taken at political level. there are several: in particular, given the theme, a positive aggregate budgetary orientation of the euro area; a budgetary capacity for the euro area to support investment and an unemployment mechanism, the latter financed from the union's own resources, to avoid an excessive burden on national budgets; the commission's proposal is to re-think the institutional architecture of the euro area. this is also the time to recognise that during the negative phases of the cycle we need the possibility for the european union to run a deficit and to issue zero-risk government bonds. i say this because at this moment the risk is to decide not to decide and this could risk plunging us back into the crisis from which the exit has been laboriously started.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic policy of austerity has shown all its limits. achieving significant growth levels requires linking greater investment and structural reforms to the stabilisation of national budgets, and modulating intervention measures for individual member states. but, as president draghi said a few days ago, if the structural reforms are to be socially acceptable, they must be accompanied by inclusive economic policies with redistributive effects. the euro area remains short of investment. in some countries, investment has already exceeded pre-crisis levels, but in others it is stagnating or not progressing at the same pace, particularly in southern europe, where the unemployment rate, especially among young people, is a cause for concern. further measures are therefore needed to close the investment gap accumulated since the outbreak of the crisis. strengthening and making the youth guarantee programme more efficient, but also investing more and better in training, research, young talent and innovative start-ups are the essential coordinates of an effective economic policy in the euro area.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greed of the financial system and the inability of politics to react led us to the crisis of 2008-2009, where there was a reckless use of these credit securitisation products. it seems a bit absurd to me that today there is an attempt to revive the economy by using securitisations which, despite a title that seems a little aggressive (i.e. "simple, transparent and standardised"), in fact will not be because they are using the wrong tool to try to revive the economy. what will really boost the returns of hedge funds, which are very interested in buying these securities and managing them. the european central bank is continuing to raise capital requirements to bring the banks that lend money to the real economy into crisis, and the european commission is pushing to speed up this process and to encourage their profits. well, we're not going anywhere with this system. we should start with a real banking separation, but unfortunately yesterday the european commission threw a stone on it, by eliminating it from its programme. we must change course because these instruments risk creating further systemic crises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, trade policy, while not being able to solve all the problems of our time on its own, is a powerful tool and we therefore appreciate the impetus given by president juncker on trade in his state of the union address. the european union, in the vacuum left by the united states, must take advantage of the momentum and establish itself as the main global player in trade. we therefore welcome the request to open negotiations with australia and new zealand because we believe that it is possible to establish with them common, virtually global rules that promote a model of sustainable development. we believe, however, that certain considerations must always be borne in mind and that it is necessary to insist: firstly, that the commission's renewed commitment to transparency be followed by the same discipline on the part of the council; secondly, that the effects of agreements on our internal market should always be taken into account, so that action can be taken in the event of imbalances, especially during the transitional adjustment phase. thirdly, the chapter on sustainable development should be an effective and binding instrument for action. fourthly, that throughout the negotiations parliament should be involved in the process, kept constantly informed and actively involved in order to make democratic participation ever more effective in the full exercise of its functions and to give the necessary reassurance to the citizens, but also to inform them of the potential opportunities that will open up; fifthly, to ensure maximum reciprocity not only in terms of market access but also in terms of public procurement, product quality and safety in the treatment reserved for national authorities. finally, we hope that the negotiations and the agreement will provide the framework for a dialogue that will enhance mutual potential and prevent distortions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, australia and new zealand are distant countries, but they are and can be important trading partners for europe and italy, and above all, in some cases, they are beneficial partners. we italians export twice as much to new zealand as we import (400 million against 200 million) and to australia even seven times as much as we import (3.5 billion against less than 500 million). the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union. if that is the case, a trade agreement may be an important option to support. but we have set a condition, which we cannot compromise: to protect agriculture, livestock and the dairy sector. these countries are among the world's leading producers of milk and meat: new zealand, for example, has an average of 419 head per herd, compared with 36 in europe, and exports 88% of its production abroad. without protection in these areas, therefore, we cannot have any kind of agreement. but tomorrow we shall not be voting on a treaty with these countries, but only on the guidelines for negotiating it effectively. in these months we have been negotiating hard here in the european parliament, we have fought hard to ensure that the final treaty contains protection for geographical indications, safeguard clauses, tariff quotas and special protective measures, as demanded by the trade associations. we wanted to set limits to protect the sensitive sectors of agriculture and milk, we called for fairness, transparency and guarantees for the rights and interests of citizens. i hope that the council will do the right thing, that it will listen to us and that when it gives the mandate for negotiations it will provide for a mixed competence of the member states and the european union, without thereby circumventing national democratic processes. for us, the rights of citizens and the rights of consumers are not negotiable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am concerned, as are millions of european citizens, about the potential risks of the new trade agreements with australia and new zealand, firstly because agriculture should not be used as a bargaining chip to gain greater market access for non-agricultural products and services. the precautionary principle, which underpins eu food safety regulation, and the 'field to table' approach, which sets stricter eu standards, must be guaranteed under both agreements. we call attention to the sensitive nature of certain sectors of european agriculture, such as beef and veal, sheepmeat and goatmeat, sugar, cereals and milk products, many of which have recently been through serious crises, necessitating the urgent introduction of exceptional support schemes. the union should refrain from making any commitments whatsoever in respect of these agricultural products, for which i believe that there is a need for appropriate and effective bilateral safeguard measures, transitional periods and appropriate quotas.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the honourable members who put forward these questions. i am taking the floor on behalf of my colleague, commissioner bulc, who unfortunately has had to return to brussels. there are three important questions being asked in relation to ticket distribution in the airline sector and the charges that can be incurred by the travelling public. these questions address concerns about the consumer’s access to unbiased travel information and the possibility to freely compare and use different distribution channels. the commission is aware that the lufthansa group has added a so—called ‘distribution cost charge’ on tickets purchased through computerised reservation systems, while allowing travel agencies to book tickets for several cooperating airlines directly on the airline group’s own platform without any surcharge being added. we also know that other airlines have announced that they intend to do the same. the commission has received four complaints against the introduction of these distribution cost charges. the complainants consider the airline’s own platform to be a crs (central reservation system) and claim that, as such, it should comply with regulation no 80/2009. this is a complex case and the commission investigations are still ongoing on the basis of the regulation. in the aviation strategy adopted in december 2015 at the initiative of commissioner bulc, the commission considered that the eu rules governing airline ticket distribution might no longer entirely reflect market reality and that several evolutions should be taken into account when considering whether the legislation remains appropriate: first, the engagement of airline ownership in the crs; second, increased access to the internet; third, the development of alternative distribution channels; fourth, the regulation of crs in other geographical markets. the commission is carrying out a comprehensive evaluation of a regulation on common rules for the operation of air services in the eu. the regulation includes provisions on price transparency. we have also launched an evaluation of the regulation establishing a code of conduct for crs systems. the results of those two evaluations are expected next year. they will not only assess the performance and effects of its provision, but also pay specific attention to the technological changes and challenges in the market. these evaluations will allow the commission to determine whether eu action is needed to continue to guarantee that eu consumers have adequate access to travel services and unbiased travel information. thank you once again for your questions, and i look forward to your follow—up remarks.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. distribution and marketing are increasingly digital and the amount of information available makes it difficult for the user to compare prices and offers. we know that some airlines charge a surcharge of eur 16 if the ticket is not purchased directly from their website or booking centre, and this causes discrimination and indirect increases in fares. the commission is considering a revision of regulation (ec) no 80/2009, which protects users against abuse in the distribution of air tickets. there is therefore a golden opportunity to strengthen existing rules to ensure that consumers can make informed choices based on reliable data. and finally, rules on transparency are vital for informed consumer choice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that you will have an ally in this parliament. parliament has already worked with great enthusiasm in the last legislature to implement this european civil protection mechanism and the natural disasters that many member states have faced, and continue to face, tell us that a stronger response is needed. we are fully aware that what we have is not enough. as you said, national capacities alone are not enough and this is shown by the 16 times the mechanism has had to intervene this summer just for fires. we must improve our ability to react, we must make prevention and preparedness our priority. the citizens of europe are on our side, they are with us, they are asking us this, they want to see more europe here, much more europe. i too think that it would be a good thing, perhaps, to have a genuine european civil protection mechanism, but we also know that the primary responsibility for responding to these disasters lies with the member states, so much so that in the last legislature subsidiarity had to be our guiding principle in order to put this mechanism into practice. so i think that if that is to be our objective, and it can be, we must also be very pragmatic and so i think we should start with what you said, because we absolutely have to improve quickly. so we can improve what is already in place, we can improve cooperation between and with the member states, we can simplify procedures, we must increase cofinancing and financing instruments but above all, i repeat, we must act quickly. good work!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, petitions are an indispensable tool for informing the european institutions of serious shortcomings in the application of union law. it is therefore essential to listen to the voice of the citizens and to take concrete action to try to find solutions. only in this way can we really help to solve the problems caused by the misapplication of union law and avoid situations where social justice, fundamental rights and environmental protection are denied. i would like to give some examples, particularly in relation to the serious shortcomings in the application and implementation of environmental and air quality legislation. i am thinking, for example, of my country, italy, which has been subject to infringement proceedings for years now concerning exceeding the limits on air pollutants, which cause the sad record of 86,000 premature deaths due to air pollution in italy every year. it is obviously an unacceptable problem, which must be dealt with at member state level, but for which the european commission also has great responsibilities. i think of the dieselgate scandal, i think of what happened in 2015, when the european commission, however, was careful not to exercise its powers of control fully, promptly and effectively to prevent diesel cars that do not comply with type approval from entering the market. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still in the process of being drawn up. i would also like to mention the delays in other infringement procedures, in other areas of union law. i am thinking, for example, of the abuse of fixed-term contracts in the public sector, which condemns thousands and millions of citizens to precariousness, and finally the failure to relocate migrants, a scandal for this europe. i would like to conclude by mentioning the many petitions on animal welfare. it is unacceptable that the union's strategy should remain unchanged and not be put into practice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what mr chrysogonos and his colleagues have done is a very good job, and it allows us to deal fully with the problem we are discussing. now it's very important to legislate well, all the time. it is equally important to ensure that laws are applied in a timely and correct manner: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a timely manner, because the gap between the time when the rules are adopted and when they are actually implemented is, in my view, too long, particularly in certain areas. then we saw that for other subjects, in fact, the application is erratic or even non-existent. it is certainly positive that the number of infringements detected or delays verified has decreased over the past few years. it is not reassuring, however, that what remains is mainly related to the legislative conditions concerning work and the rights of working people. this requires a great deal of determination on the part of the commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same is not acceptable with regard to one of the most sensitive issues that has emerged in recent months, that of taxation. taxation has become an instrument of competition between the countries of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is therefore very important that this be emphasized, that the appropriate measures be implemented. finally, i also believe that it is very useful to ensure that the national parliaments approach the issues we have discussed this morning with the same conviction and determination.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen and spokesperson for the five star movement in the european parliament, i am particularly proud to be able to present this ambitious but realistic report on the implementation of the environmental liability directive. there is a very close and very strong link between the fruit of this work and the reasons why i, along with millions of other italian citizens, are politically committed to changing the things that we believe are wrong, both in italy and in europe. one of these reasons, symbolized by one of the five stars of the movement, is precisely the protection and respect of the environment in all its forms, as a unique and fundamental asset for life and also for future generations. i am therefore very pleased that this commitment has been shared by my colleagues in the other political groups, whom i thank for helping to make the proposal we are making to the european commission even more ambitious and advanced. the first consideration to be made in the area of environmental liability is that the implementation of the directive, which has been uneven and superficial, has not achieved the desired results. more efforts are needed to make possible a standardisation of environmental liability rules in the european union and, to this end, a clear interpretation of the concept of significant environmental damage threshold and the introduction of standard administrative procedures for reporting threats of environmental damage are needed. we are particularly concerned that the directive should be updated as soon as possible, extending the concept of environmental damage and its scope of application, in particular with regard to the criteria for determining adverse effects on protected species and habitats, the risks of damage to water and soil, but also to human health and air. this concept should be updated in order to make it sufficiently effective and consistent and to keep pace with the rapidly evolving pollutants produced by industrial activities. we believe that the costs of repairing environmental damage borne by operators can be reduced by using compulsory financial instruments such as insurance or similar guarantees, which we call for. it is also appropriate to establish a european fund for the protection of the environment against industrial damage, governed by the directive, to deal with the risks of insolvency and only in cases where the financial guarantee markets fail. this fund would also be useful in cases of environmental disasters caused by industrial factors when it is not possible to identify the operator responsible for the damage. on the other hand, action is needed on the prevention side, with information, awareness and accountability actions based on the 'polluter pays' principle. the committee also calls for the introduction of a system of civil liability for damage to human health and the environment. the same is true of the proposal to set up a register for operators carrying out dangerous activities and a financial monitoring system to ensure that operators are solvent. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. we also believe that citizens should play a non-secondary role in the system of environmental responsibility. therefore, they should be provided with adequate means of complaint, both to call for action by the competent authorities and by introducing mechanisms for collective redress for breaches of union environmental law. we also call for the adoption of a system of compulsory secondary liability which extends liability to those who buy a company which causes damage. all this, as well as the proposal to set up independent authorities with management powers, we believe can help to protect the environment and the health of citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. the directive we are talking about was an important step forward for our europe, for the institutions, but it was made with the limitations that have been repeatedly mentioned in the debate. the transposition was slow, often incoherent, and distorted in relation to the content and objectives of the directive, and the delays in transposition subsequently made it possible to verify its implementation, which was also penalized by a very substantial and entirely counterproductive delay. it is therefore very important to review that directive in the light of the limitations that have been highlighted. the revision is therefore our task, it must be done quickly and it must, i believe, start from one element, which is what many of my colleagues have mentioned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i think that this should be supplemented, because it is important, by the introduction of a system of civil liability for damage to both people and the environment as a whole. to do this effectively, it is also essential to have regular environmental inspections carried out by the european union with its institutions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. the timeliness of compensation sometimes goes a long way towards the quality and certainty of life of the people involved, as we have seen in recent years. finally, we need an information campaign, maximum transparency in the application of the directive and maximum information in knowing what can happen to european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need for the implementation of the environmental liability directive has been felt for some time. i come from a wonderful land, for centuries called the "land of work", which today is sadly known as the "land of fires", a land poisoned by the burial of toxic waste from companies all over europe, and especially from northern italy, which for decades have been using the illegal disposal services offered by organized crime to eliminate, at low cost, the waste of their production activities. first of all, the definition of environmental damage needs to be reformulated to extend its scope to include fauna, flora, air and landscape and to extend the objective responsibilities to other dangerous activities not currently envisaged. rules should be introduced to facilitate operators and insurance companies in order to increase the spread of an insurance scheme for environmental damage. finally, the provision of a more adequate financial control system and the establishment of a national and european register for operators carrying out dangerous activities could also improve the framework for guarantees for environmental damage.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the speakers, i thank mr jávor for his excellent cooperation and i thank all the shadow rapporteurs who, with their proposals and their cooperation, have enriched the final text which we are going to vote on today. i hope that we will find in this plenary the same consensus that we have already found in the vote in the legal affairs committee, but from today's debate it seems to me that we are converging on the main points, namely that this directive, in our view, absolutely needs to be improved in the implementation in the individual member states because, to date, the two objectives it was intended to achieve, namely the prevention and the repair of damage, have unfortunately not been met in the vast majority of member states. to do this, each individual country in the european union must equip itself with new instruments, such as those proposed in this report. i refer in particular to a compulsory register, so that we can ensure constant monitoring. this is the only way to prevent environmental damage. when we talk about environmental damage, and when we talk about the protection of the health of the citizens who are indirectly harmed when environmental damage is done, it is important to prevent, because subsequent compensation, even in economic terms, will unfortunately never be able to fully restore the health damaged or to restore the environmental situation that has already been violated. and why is a european fund also important? because within the european union it is clear that there are situations of waste transport companies belonging to one member state and operating in another. that is why it is important that the fund be european, and not just national, because in this case collective protection can be created throughout the union. unfortunately, that is no longer the case. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i hope that the european commission will take this report into account and that there will be a real improvement in the environment and in the health of the citizens.
i have the honor to announce that the conference of presidents of political groups has just decided to award the 2017 sakharov prize for freedom of thought to the democratic opposition in venezuela, to the national assembly represented by its president julio borges and to all political prisoners, as well as those listed by the venezuelan criminal forum and represented by leopoldo lópez, antonio ledezma, daniel ceballos, yon goicoechea, lorent saleh, alfredo ramos and andrea gonzález. (applause) i have the honour to announce this result on the day when, thanks also to the pressure of the european parliament, three human rights activists were released in turkey. since its inception in 1988, this prize has been awarded to those who have made an outstanding contribution to the fight for human rights. it's not political, but it's one of the most symbolic moments... (laughter in the chamber) i ask you to respect the wishes of the majority in this house, there is nothing to laugh at when we talk about millions of people and children dying of hunger! we may disagree with the majority, but in a democracy we must respect the will of the majority in this parliament. there is nothing to laugh about when it comes to defending human rights! (applause) the sakharov prize is one of the most symbolic moments in the functioning of our parliament: to be always at the forefront of defending and promoting freedom, democracy and other human rights, within and beyond our borders. today we have the duty to denounce, once again after five resolutions voted by the european parliament in recent years, the serious situation in venezuela. in this latin american country, where many european citizens live and many venezuelan citizens are of european origin, many are deprived of their fundamental rights, creating a spiral of institutional, economic and social crisis. the living conditions of the venezuelan people have deteriorated severely. we are facing a real humanitarian emergency. there is no medicine, no medical care, no food, no clean water, no electricity. hundreds of thousands of people are being forced to flee the country. we cannot but raise our voices in defence of freedom, democracy and human rights. that is why we have decided to award the sakharov prize for freedom of thought to the democratic opposition, and to reiterate our full support for the national assembly of venezuela, the only democratically elected parliament in the world. (applause) i would like to thank we also want to call for a peaceful transition to democracy and for the creation of a humanitarian corridor that will alleviate the suffering of the people. today we are not just rewarding the democratic opposition: we want to express our willingness to be close and to pay tribute to all the venezuelan people, to those who have been unjustly imprisoned just for expressing their opinion and to those who, on a daily basis, struggle to survive under a totalitarian regime, to the families who mourn the loss of their loved ones during months of uninterrupted and peaceful protest for freedom. today we stand with a people's struggle for their freedom. but all the battles for rights are equally important. the oppressed, the unjust, the deprived of liberty and rights, everywhere in the world, will always be able to count on this parliament. the conference of presidents has therefore decided to invite the other two candidates for the prize, aura lolita chávez ixcaquic and dawit isaak, who will unfortunately be represented by a member of his family, as he is still detained in eritrea, to the award ceremony in strasbourg on 3 december.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the next item is the election of a vice-president of the european parliament to replace mr lunacek. i would remind you that, under rule 20 of the rules of procedure, the new vice-president takes over from the outgoing vice-president in the order of precedence. i received the nomination of ms. heidi hautala. the candidate has informed me that she accepts the nomination and, as the number of nominations does not exceed the number of seats to be allocated, the candidate is elected by acclamation unless a number of members or one or more political groups is at least equal to... i think the house's will is very clear, and i congratulate mrs hautala on her election by acclamation.
when the nominations come in, we'll vote. i hope they get here as soon as possible.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we wanted to start a debate on the subject of compulsory vaccination because recently in italy a measure was introduced for the compulsory administration of six new vaccines, which are added to the four already compulsory vaccines, for a total of ten compulsory vaccinations at present. the data available on the global vaccine action plan portal shows that this was done despite not facing a real epidemic emergency that could have justified such a coercive measure. the italian ministry of health justified this measure on the basis of measles incidence data from the first months of the year in italy; these figures were indeed worrying, also taking into account the fact that measles in italy still remains endemic. however, many parents are concerned about this drastic decision by the italian ministry of health because they did not understand why, if there was an emergency for measles, no specific measure was taken to combat measles alone. they did not understand why the obligation was extended to ten mandatory vaccinations and, unfortunately, what aggravated the fears of the parents was the fact that such a sensitive issue, which concerns the health of our children, was brought to the centre of the political debate and treated as if it were two opposing fan clubs, with obvious instrumentalisations that we find very dangerous. that is why we wanted to discuss it here in the european parliament, outside the national context and outside the time of increased media attention, so that we could discuss it calmly in the interests of those concerned parents. the majority of citizens, and we with them, recognize the importance that vaccines have had in reducing, and in some cases eliminating (think of smallpox), the incidence of serious infectious diseases. however, those same citizens, and we with them, want above all that medicines, especially when administered to healthy people and especially children, be effective and safe. citizens want to know what the real risks are for their children when they agree to vaccinate them and the role of the institutions should be to provide this information in a clear and transparent way. we therefore believe that policy should be concerned with making all regulatory bodies, such as the european medicines agency and the national regulatory agencies, independent and free from the pressure of the (profit-seeking) pharmaceutical industry, and that they should be able to express their opinions on a purely scientific basis. we know that this is not always true and it does not help that relationship of trust with the institutions that is the basis for achieving the goals of national vaccination plans. because, for those vaccines whose efficacy and safety have been tested, the question then arises as to what strategy to adopt to achieve greater vaccination coverage and, if we look around, we see that most member states, including those with the greatest economic and social development, have adopted an approach based on persuasion and accompanying families to vaccination, and not an approach based on compulsion. we therefore ask the commission: is it possible to say from the information you have that a coercive approach based on mandatory vaccination is more effective than an approach based on active recommendation and informed guidance of families to vaccination? question number two: can the fact that the obligation to vaccinate a total of 10 children aged 0 to 3 years is unprecedented be considered a valid reason for invoking the precautionary principle? and to finish: in the context of the priority of industrial strengthening contained in president juncker's letter of intent, juncker himself indicated a joint action plan on national vaccination policies. we wonder how vaccination policies can be a means of strengthening the internal market and industry, because we believe that health should be completely outside the logic of the market.
member of the commission. – madam president, vaccination is one of the most effective public health measures. vaccination saves lives. vaccination protects our societies, reduces illness and helps achieve long life expectancy rates. vaccination not only leads to better public health outcomes, but it is also beneficial from a socio—economic point of view. before vaccines existed, many children would die young or be crippled for life. our generation has no memory of this. thanks to vaccination, such diseases have almost – i stress almost – been eradicated. as president juncker mentioned in the state of the union speech, today in the eu children are still dying from diseases such as measles that can easily be prevented with vaccines. this is unacceptable. so i want to thank members for raising this major interpellation on a subject of great importance to all of us. vaccination programmes have become increasingly fragile in the face of the low uptake of vaccines, vaccine hesitancy and vaccine shortages. many people in europe live and work in different member states throughout their lives and have trouble in comparing vaccination calendars and vaccinating their children on time. each country in europe has its own vaccination schedule. they are the result of long traditions and therefore vary widely across the union. some countries opt for mandatory vaccination and it is their legal right to do so. honourable members, i would like to address each of your questions. the first question is whether the obligation to carry out the 10 vaccinations for young children should be considered a reason to invoke the precautionary principle. first, 12 member states currently have at least one mandatory vaccination in their national vaccination programmes and some have many more. italy is one of seven member states that prescribe between 10 and 14 mandatory vaccinations in their vaccination programmes. as such, the new italian law does not constitute a so—called precedent in europe. the precautionary principle can be invoked when there is a suspected danger to human health and scientific knowledge does not permit an evaluation of the situation and of the risk. in the case of vaccination, we have scientific evidence—based knowledge on the benefits of vaccination. in this context, when considering vaccination programmes, it would not be appropriate only to take into account the small risk of potential adverse reactions to vaccines while ignoring the solid evidence—based benefits of vaccination. it would be misleading, in fact, at a time when people in europe are dying from measles – a disease that should have been eliminated long ago because the european union had obligations to eradicate measles by 2014, but we are not there. we need to strengthen our approach to vaccination. we need to encourage everyone to be vaccinated and protect the most vulnerable in society, leaving no one behind. moving to your second question: can the commission gather evidence on the effectiveness gap between mandatory and non—mandatory vaccination policies with regard to immunisation rates? the commission can play a key role in facilitating the collection, analysis and dissemination of evidence—based research on the best ways to increase vaccine coverage. to this end, we will work closely with the european centre for disease prevention and control and the member states. some studies show that, in the case of healthcare professionals, mandatory vaccination has indeed increased vaccination uptake. our studies point to mandatory vaccinations not being decisive in determining childhood immunisation rates. as such, more data is needed to understand if, and how, changes in vaccination policies have influenced immunisation trends. further research would help us to better appreciate the relationship between voluntary and mandatory vaccination programmes and vaccine coverage. i do not want to enter into a discussion on the benefits of voluntary versus mandatory programmes. they are all working towards the same goal of improving health. to do so, we need to analyse the implementation of the national programmes. do we have appropriate surveillance in place? is data available and used to inform future vaccination policies? how are targets met and what are the attitudes of health workers? that is very important. these are some of the issues we need to look at. finally, your third question: how can the eu coordinate action to improve the effectiveness of vaccination policies and increase immunisation rates? as you will know from president juncker’s letter of intent to the parliament, the commission intends to present an initiative to support member states in strengthening cooperation on vaccination. our aim is to help counter vaccine hesitancy and increase vaccination coverage, address shortages and prepare for emergencies, ensuring cooperation between member states, involving stakeholders and ensuring a comprehensive research agenda on vaccination. we will work closely with a broad range of stakeholders from the health workforce, industry, academia, ngos and patients’ organisations. in addition, next year i intend to launch a new joint action with member states. this action builds on the results of the discussions with stakeholders that i held earlier this year. i hope it will pave the way towards a shared vision to improve vaccination coverage in the eu. this action, which will be co—financed by the health programme, will focus on the convergence of national policies on vaccination schedules and the evaluation of the effectiveness of vaccination policies. the aim is to increase intersectoral cooperation, promote cross—border interoperability and increase the consistency of communication on vaccination. together we are working, first, to increase trust and confidence in vaccines, which is very important, through vaccination programmes and health systems, and to enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of vaccination programmes and improve electronic vaccine registries. these efforts must be underpinned by effective communication and enhanced public engagement. we need to foster an understanding of the importance of vaccination as a key tool for preventing diseases. this issue is one that affects us all, irrespective of borders or nationality. it is one we must address collectively and strategically. i count on members to support these efforts and help increase vaccination coverage in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of vaccines. do we or do we not agree that conveying messages that are outdated, patently false and lacking scientific validity is a way to create confusion and alarm that lowers immunization rates? do we not all agree that it is our political and moral duty to ensure that the most vulnerable, children, are not penalized by irrational behaviour in the first place? it is good, it is really good, that the debate, rather than insisting on the alleged harmfulness of vaccines, focuses in a positive way on the best mechanisms for spreading the only immunization tool at our disposal against disease and epidemic risks. the introduction of the obligation in the italian case is proof that too much has been done to play on human fears and uncertainties, by fomenting alarmism and spreading pseudo-scientific theories. today's call is a clear sign of a very positive change of pace, which allows us to finally take the debate beyond national borders and involve the whole of europe. this is the way to go: we have to open up to discussion at all levels of science. only in this way can we avoid new accusations in the future, such as those recently made by the new york times, which drew a dangerous parallel in italy for those who actively campaigned on the anti-vaccine platform, repeating the false links between vaccination and autism. or from president juncker, who in his state of the union address said that it was unthinkable that children in the eu were still dying of preventable diseases: in romania and italy, they should have access to vaccinations without any further delay. we support national vaccination measures. let's get to the facts, let's look at the data. in italy in 2017, for example, in the case of measles as soon as coverage fell below the critical threshold of 95% the number of cases multiplied (4 689, are the data of october 15), with 4 deaths. the possibility of risk factors for the weakest groups growing exponentially or of the epidemic spreading to the rest of europe is a real risk. what was the solution to this challenge? the principle was precisely to adopt the precautionary principle, which was also invoked. it has put the authorities on the right track to get immunization rates up quickly. in the real world, things are not so different. for example, in the united states, canada and japan, schools are closed to those who are not vaccinated. australia takes away family benefits from those who do not vaccinate their children. germany, which had no vaccination requirements, has decided to fine parents who bring unimmunised children to school with €2,500 after 400 cases of measles and the death of a 37-year-old woman. we cannot rely solely on the rationality of the human being who, especially in moments of crisis and weakness, most often the result of pain, of a fate considered unjust, clings to all hopes, or worse remains prey to illusions. that 's why i say: we all become a little more human, we all rediscover the respect for years of study and experience, we all together reject the assumptions and theories that have no foundation. let's face the facts in italy. each year, 29 billion dollars is spent on medicines, of which 318 million dollars is spent on vaccines. as an example, we spend 1 billion on antibiotics, 300 million on gastric bypass. do we really think that the speculation of the pharmaceutical companies is to be concentrated or can be concentrated on the smallest part of the total expenditure? instead, we should be looking at how much families and individuals spend annually - let's think about this - in the underbelly of alternative examinations and consultations and how much speculation there may be behind all this, especially the pain of so many families and so many parents. commissioner, we are moving forward. i think we must move forward on a european path, perhaps with the single centre for vaccine purchases, as announced, but also by harmonizing the systems of a centralised database to give more transparency to our information, as an integral part of that plan which you have described to give more confidence to the citizens, to provide answers to their needs and to give them hope.
i'm asking for a blue card. i would like to ask the honourable member whether she is aware that vaccination is a field of health and not of health. health is about people, about maintaining the health status of people who are already healthy. we are not talking about sick people, so this is not a matter for the member states but also for the european parliament and the european institutions.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 26 october 2017.
the libe committee has decided to open interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 69c (1). the reports which constitute the mandates for these negotiations are available on the plenary website and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. under rule 69c (2), a number of members or one or more political groups equal to at least the average threshold may request in writing, by midnight tomorrow, tuesday 14 november, that a decision on the opening of negotiations be put to the vote. if a request for a vote in the house on the decision to open negotiations is not submitted within the above deadline, the libe committee may open negotiations.
as regards the problem of protecting the languages used by minorities in ukraine, having received not only the request here in this house but also letters of protest from many members, i shall write a letter to poroshenko today to ask for clarification and to ask that linguistic minorities, especially those who speak european languages, be respected. i shall also inform him of my meeting next week at the eastern summit and raise the matter with him shortly. so i will tell him what i will write in the letter already between tonight and tomorrow morning a letter will be sent to poroshenko , taking over the requests that have come from the parliamentarians who rightly protect linguistic minorities. as regards iran, i have already sent two letters of solidarity and condolences to the heads of state of the two countries affected by the earthquake. as for turkey, unfortunately there were also demonstrations the other day to protect and defend the rights of political prisoners. we know the situation in this country, including the greek minority, especially the one in famagusta, which is in difficulty, and we will ask the turkish ambassador for clarification on what can be done. i ask you to provide my cabinet with all the necessary information and then we will ask the turkish ambassador not to prevent the sending of foodstuffs to the greek populations living in the north of the island.
the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on wednesday 8 november 2017. the following amendments were tabled: monday the enf group asked that the council and commission statements on the earthquake in iran and iraq be added as the first item on the agenda for monday afternoon, that is today. i give the floor to mr franz obermayr to present the request on behalf of his group.
the enf group has asked that the council and commission statements on the black monday protests in south africa be added as the first item on the agenda for monday afternoon. i give the floor to mr atkinson to make the request on behalf of his group.
for tuesday, i'll tell you this: the efdd group has asked that the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in catalonia be added as the second item on the agenda for tuesday morning. as a result, the report by mrs sehnalová on cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection legislation will be moved to tuesday afternoon and voted on wednesday. i give the floor to mr carver to put forward his group's request.
the greens/efa group asked for the council and commission statements on the social pillar to be added as the second item on the afternoon's agenda. the debate should end with a resolution. i give the floor to mr lamberts to make the request on behalf of his group.
mr. lamberts, you confirm your (inaudible) of course, then...
the efdd group has asked that a statement by the commission on the denial of access to the human rights tribunal for employees of international organisations be added as the fourth item in the afternoon after the andrikiene and fleckenstein report. the debate will be closed by a resolution. i give the floor to mr batten to present the request on behalf of his group.
the agenda remains unchanged. (the order of business is as follows)
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposes to amend the current legislation on territorial types and gives them legal recognition, including a definition of cities, for the purposes of european statistics. i welcome this proposal because it would allow data to be aggregated by type, and thus gdp in rural and urban areas could be compared and employment measured according to the degree of urbanisation. this information is important when planning future policies and providing strategic responses. i believe that the whole discussion on allocation criteria should have a central place in the negotiations on the future cohesion policy, which i hope we will start in may-june 2018. in defining the post-2020 framework, the commission shall consider the development of new criteria to identify territories facing demographic challenges. we believe, as the committee on regional development itself has suggested in several reports, that gdp and population density are not sufficient indicators. other indicators within the three broad dimensions of social progress, basic human needs, well-being and opportunity, would allow a better understanding of economic and social challenges across europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments, and i would like, once again, to underline the fact that this legislation will bring significant benefits in addressing the labour shortage in inland waterways transport by facilitating labour mobility. i am happy that we all agree on that. it will also ensure that the qualifications of all workers on board inland navigation vessels are recognised throughout the union. this is clear progress in comparison with the situation today and it shows that the eu can deliver for people and jobs. before i conclude, let me comment on a few of the members’ remarks. first, on exemptions, the commission agreed to well-designed exceptions, in particular for the transposition of specific provisions that have no application in some member states which have no inland waterways. it makes sense to have these kinds of exception. secondly, regarding assessments, i would stress that modernising our rules also means moving away from specific mandatory training to ensuring the relevant competences through common assessment standards. so this is addressed as well. i would also like to comment on remarks by a speaker who asked for further support for the sector. allow me here to draw attention to some of the things that are already happening, and already in the pipeline, which affect the inland waterways sector in a broader sense, beyond considerations of labour mobility. these measures on the table were introduced in the second mobility package, in which we introduced combined transport with inland waterways playing a significant role as one of the decarbonised sectors. i would also like to draw attention to the additional financing of alternative fuels infrastructure, which inland waterways should take advantage of. all of a sudden, inland waterways are part of a systemic solution as we consider how to address the challenges in transport. in closing, i would like once again to thank parliament for its constructive cooperation on this issue, and i look forward to a positive vote tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 november 2017.
the commission shall submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the implementation of this regulation.
on behalf of the efdd group. the commissioner has already said that the use of the most advanced technologies is essential, on the one hand as a driving aid to reduce human error as much as possible, and on the other hand to know in real time whether the person who is driving a vehicle is in the right condition to do so, that is, whether or not he has a valid driving licence or has taken substances that may affect his ability to drive. the tools already exist, some only in the experimental phase, but they need to be encouraged and implemented. but we know that safety also depends on the condition of roads and infrastructure in general. the funds allocated to the care, maintenance and implementation of these are often badly spent or badly managed by the member states, and in italy, especially in the south, we are unfortunately well aware of the sad effects of poor maintenance. their correct use should therefore be monitored more effectively and transparently. we must remember that most accidents happen on secondary roads, which are often overlooked for this very reason.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year in europe tens of thousands of people die in road accidents, and the main causes are still speeding, distraction and drunk driving. the introduction of new technologies in vehicles is essential to increase road safety and the commission must take the lead in setting regulatory standards to ensure that new safety features, such as emergency stop signals or digital tyre pressure monitoring, are present in all standard cars at no additional cost to consumers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. europe must raise the average quality of its infrastructure, especially in peripheral areas and small urban centres, turning road safety from a steering wheel for the economy into a guarantee of safety for all european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the situation of christians in the world has worsened in many parts of the world. discrimination and violence occur in pakistan, north korea, india, turkey, sudan, and in some cases violence becomes an attempt to destroy the presence of an entire community. pope francis' words ring out in this chamber: we see many of our christian brothers and sisters in the eastern churches experiencing dramatic persecution and an increasingly disturbing diaspora. this raises many questions and many why. no one can turn a blind eye, least of all europe. we cannot turn a blind eye to such tragedies as if they were inevitable. we cannot stop at complaints alone, but must find effective and lasting solutions to help the christian community in the world to overcome this difficult time. we must take responsibility and break the veil of resignation in the face of persecution which affects us all, as europeans before we are citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can say today that we are certainly sensitive to all forms of discrimination against all forms of religion, but there is no doubt that what is happening in the world today, particularly in africa, asia and the middle east, against christians is a real form of persecution, which is often more underestimated than others. i think we all know what the data is and we also know that many christians, religious or secular, have suffered from real forms of crime against humanity. i think there are three particular situations. on the one hand, there is the problem of islamic extremism, which in some countries, such as iraq and syria, where isis has had a genocidal intent, has aimed at the complete elimination of any christian presence. in aleppo, christians are now 75 percent less than in 2011. there are other places, too, like egypt, bloodied by bombings, nigeria, bloodied by boko haram violence, pakistan, where asia bibi's case is just the tip of the iceberg, and also, unfortunately, we have big issues in turkey as well. then there is another face of hostility against christians and that is religious nationalism. so i also think, sometimes, of india, where attacks on christian churches are on the rise. i believe that europe must support the associations, humanitarian organizations and international bodies more clearly and more visibly, so that even in the return that we are seeing today, after the crisis of isis, to their countries in the middle east, christians can do so in safety.
in writing. the persecution of christians today is a tragedy whose proportions are unfortunately increasing and which the media - sometimes out of unforgivable distraction, but much more out of senseless prejudice - often do not give the visibility it deserves. this europe which claims to be pluralistic and sensitive to the issue of human rights, is unable to stem a phenomenon which we see spreading in africa (as in nigeria devastated by boko haram), in asia and in the countries of the middle east, where christianity had an indisputable historical presence. the main culprit in the persecution is islamic extremism, not only that brought by isis fanatics, but also that spread by courts that rigidly apply sharia law and hand down sentences for offences such as "apostasy" and "blasphemy". such extremism is growing in once secular countries like turkey and in the very capitals of europe there is growing intolerance of non-christian communities, as the news often reports. the ferocity of such acts of violence against communities of millennial faith in christ is unprecedented in the modern era, apart from the vandal holocaust. the eu is too concerned with its own economic interests to denounce this terrifying reality.
in writing. finally, a debate on the persecution of christians in this parliament, it seems that everything is often done to avoid discussing this very serious situation. the numbers are staggering. we are talking about 215 million people who are persecuted, most of them forced to flee their countries of origin. this is not a phenomenon confined to a particular area, but one which is taking on global proportions: persecution ranges from north korea to the african continent, to the middle east. the commissioner has summarised well the efforts of the external action service and the commission to combat the situation, but i believe that more determination is needed. it is important to keep our attention focused and not to let the drama of persecution subside. i hope that our debate will serve to do this and to remind us once again that freedom of religion is a fundamental right and we must not be afraid to remember it in every possible way.
in writing. "no one can close their eyes": pope francis' warning about the persecution of christians in the eastern churches is timely now more than ever. christians around the world are suffering as never before: the report "persecuted and forgotten", recently presented by the association "aid to the church in suffering", took a picture of the violence in the three-year period 2015-2017 by examining 13 countries: the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the provisional disclosure of the information. at the same time, the open doors association reported that 200 million believers are persecuted in 50 countries: the courageous faith of eastern christians costs them physical violence, as in india, 410 cases in 2017; forced labor, as in north korea and china for north korean christian refugees, sent back to their country, where they are then sentenced to die in labor camps; confiscated as in turkey. in some cases, violence even becomes an attempt to destroy the presence of an entire community. we can 't close our eyes . the european union must be able to take action to combat the spread of extremism, which is forcing millions of people to renounce their faith and to be denied their fundamental rights.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the true lungs of the mediterranean, the posidonia herbaceous plants convert carbon dioxide into oxygen and are therefore vital for the survival of all species. but today, about 34% of the grasslands are threatened by wastewater discharges, nitrogen discharges, invasive species such as caulerpa taxifolia, extraction of sea sands and ship anchorages. in view of these threats, should new marine protected areas be created that would exclude fishermen, who are the ones most often blamed for the destruction of posidonia? i believe that this is a simplistic and ineffective solution because trawling cannot, in principle, harm the posidonia grassland. why would you do that? because trawling is prohibited within three miles of the coast in france and above a depth of fifty metres in italy and spain. the grasslands are less than three miles from the coast and less than fifty metres deep, which means that they are not suitable for trawling. so rather than seeking to impose new constraints on fishermen, i would advocate investing in wastewater treatment. i think that is the most effective solution. for example, in the calanques de cortiou in marseille and cape sissi in toulon, the grasslands have been rebuilt as soon as wastewater treatment has been improved. of course, this solution must be applied throughout the mediterranean. i would like to remind you that the union for the mediterranean, from its creation in 2008, has identified the cleanup of the sea as one of its main objectives. this cleaning up therefore necessarily involves reducing the discharge of land-based pollutants into the sea. that is why, commissioner, it would be interesting to know what progress has been made in this area by the union for the mediterranean, whose projects are financed by the eib and the ebrd.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the posidonia oceanica is part of our heritage of biodiversity. it is not an algae, it is a superior plant and it is endemic to the mediterranean sea, where unfortunately its presence is decreasing. due to its particular sensitivity to environmental conditions, it has been considered a true bioindicator. posidonia, for example, combines some features of land plants with those of algae. it is precisely because of this peculiarity that it has had considerable commercial importance in the past. suffice it to say that, as it is not flammable, its leaves were used as insulation, for example on roofs, or to supplement certain animal feed, or to pack fragile objects, and it was even called the glassmaker's algae. so it has a great tradition in our mediterranean culture as well. its uses were not limited to commercial purposes, and the leaves were also used to treat irritation and inflammation. posidonia today is essential not only to protect coastlines from erosion, but also to preserve the health of the seas by helping to convert carbon dioxide into oxygen. the effects of climate change on marine and coastal habitats will inevitably have negative consequences also for human activities linked to these environments, such as fishing, and it is certainly human activities that we must act on. the commissioner has already given me some answers, i am thinking for example of coastal erosion, but also of large-scale construction. i remember when i was in the liguria region, i had to fight hard to prevent the construction of a small harbor that would have wiped out from liguria the only grassland of posidonia that still flourishes. so for these reasons we have to work and i wanted to ask the commissioner some questions, but let us say that in his introduction he has already answered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to talk about saving our sea, saving the posidonian prairie, when all we need to do is prevent devastating energy infrastructure like tap. that tap which in recent days has militarized san foca, in puglia, in the south of italy. tap, which considers itself the owner of an entire territory, and which buys it for 55 million euros, is devastating an entire landscape, an economy and tourism and has uprooted a hundred olive trees. but we can go back to the posidonian prairie, how important it is for the preservation of ecosystems and for small-scale fishing, and how it is being devastated by trawling. we can talk about how great and important the life funds are for getting posidonia back. but the real culprits for the disasters in our territories, the real culprits for the devastation of our seas are you who are not able to say no to the oil and gas lobbies, you who are not able to initiate a real transition to renewable energy. to the citizens of melendugno, to the young people of the no tap movement, who were forced to leave the san basilio prison after eight months of struggle, i say do not stop, and with them we will not stop to stop the devastation of those who do so for mere profit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, coastal marine habitats are essential for the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen, for the productivity of marine resources, for the protection of the coast and for other fundamental ecological functions that these habitats perform for humans and other species. however, these habitats are under severe anthropogenic pressures, either directly caused by humans or as a consequence of global climate change. posidonia oceanica, an aquatic plant endemic to the mediterranean sea, is one of the most resilient and productive species in the biosphere, is part of an important ecosystem for the conservation of biodiversity and plays a fundamental role in coastal defence, as it acts as a shock absorber to wave action and hinders the erosion of the coasts by the sea. nevertheless, its population has declined dramatically over the past two decades due to dredging and trawling, coastal development, eutrophication and other forms of pollution, climate change, and mechanical damage caused by boat anchoring. this species is characterized by very slow growth and, if destroyed, requires a long time to replenish itself. it is therefore necessary to ensure its rebuilding by financing european conservation programmes and by raising awareness in the other mediterranean countries so that they follow the example of italy, spain and france, where legislation already exists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs pérez' report is a good reflection paper on cohesion policy and the fight against depopulation in europe. europe's non-urbanised areas are home to 113 million people, 12 million farms and 172 million hectares of agricultural land and contribute to the economy, culture and ecosystems. we have made concrete proposals, including the promotion of small and medium-sized farms and rural and mountain farms which, using traditional production techniques and methods, exploit natural resources in an integrated and sustainable way, produce products with specific quality characteristics and can help to reverse the trend towards depopulation. our assessment is therefore positive. the challenges faced by territories subject to demographic change are identified: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. the role of the european social fund in tackling social exclusion and poverty is central. the budgetary allocation should therefore not be reduced and part of the resources should be allocated to a minimum income fund, as decided by a large majority in the european parliament in the report signed by the five star movement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as in all post-industrial societies, the european population is characterized by a high life expectancy and a low fertility rate. there is also an increase in population in most urban areas and a decline in most rural and remote areas. these imbalances represent major challenges both for areas affected by depopulation, and southern italy is one of them, and for those affected by population inflows. cohesion policy has the right instruments to help tackle demographic change, but the esi funds need to give the problem a priority dimension and there needs to be greater coordination of european union instruments. a change of approach is needed if the european union is to integrate demographic aspects into all its policies in order to enable development, particularly in cohesion, employment, agriculture, the environment, research, employment, education, social policy and transport.
in writing. the commission's action plan to create a single market for retail financial services is presented as a benefit for all citizens. the report also calls for the introduction of a single currency, which would be a common currency, and for the introduction of a single currency to be used by all the member states. there is no provision for effective and sufficient protection for citizens - consumers and small investors alike - who, instead of benefiting from the initiative, risk being put at risk.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, we have witnessed a series of revelations in respect of tax evasion and avoidance over the last years: offshore leaks, luxleaks, swissleaks, the panama papers, and now the paradise papers. the council attaches great importance to such investigative journalism. not only have these revelations been instrumental in providing bases for informed policy-making, but they have also helped in creating political awareness. it might be the case that many of the practices described in the paradise papers are formally legal; however, we cannot exclude that certain schemes exist with the sole objective of reducing the taxes that would otherwise be due. this is unfair for those citizens and enterprises who are paying their fair share of taxes. against this background, member states are working very hard to change the legislation so that unwanted practices leading to loss of tax revenue would become illegal. here, we have to work in the context of 28 different systems of national law which, strictly speaking, fall into the area of national competence, but progress is being made. the council and the commission have worked hand in hand. the commission was quick to present new proposals to tackle the problems identified and the council swiftly found necessary compromises and has adopted tax legislation. the list of eu legislation that the council has adopted against tax evasion and tax avoidance over the last four years, under the unanimity rule, is impressive, especially compared to the previous decades. clearly, our response is picking up speed. just to name a few: the revision of the savings taxation directive and of the parent subsidiary directive, the adoption of four successive revisions of the directive on administrative cooperation in tax matters, the adoption of a new anti-tax avoidance directive and of amendments concerning hybrid mismatches, the adoption of a new directive on dispute resolution mechanisms and, lastly, the conclusion of eu agreements on automatic exchange of information with five ‘third countries’ to the european union. in some of the cases, for instance with regard to hybrid mismatches, the measures are just about to be implemented by member states. their impact on the tax avoidance practices highlighted in the paradise papers will therefore only be visible in a few years’ time. we have also adopted conclusions at the ecofin meeting in november 2016 setting out the process for establishing an eu list of non-cooperative third country jurisdictions for tax purposes. this important work is led by the council’s code of conduct group for business taxation and has been particularly intense over the past months, including in terms of dialogues with a number of countries. at this stage the code of conduct group is seeking commitments from jurisdictions to address the issues that were determined by our experts in the areas of tax transparency, fair taxation and the implementation of anti-base erosion and profit shifting standards. this work of promoting good tax governance standards is also carried out in coordination with the oecd and g20 agenda. the code of conduct group also continues to perform other important non-legislative tasks such as peer review of our member states’ potentially harmful tax regimes, development of new guidance to enable fairer tax competition between member states, dialogue with our immediate neighbours (recently switzerland and liechtenstein), and an update of the tax good governance clause to be included in eu agreements with third countries. all in all, these legislative and non-legislative initiatives just mentioned have been politically important steps for the eu. among the results achieved so far, we have seen bank secrecy de facto coming to an end, a shift of our policy focus from removing double taxation to tackling double non-taxation, development of new eu policy instruments to combat tax avoidance, and steps taken towards harmonisation of our national practices affecting the functioning of our single market. however, we cannot be complacent. more work will be needed, since tax planning methods are evolving constantly. we are currently examining several proposals, inter alia the revision of the mandatory disclosure rules directive, which would require tax advisers to disclose aggressive tax planning schemes to their tax administration. in addition, work is ongoing on several vat legislative proposals, where we hope to adopt the vat e-commerce package at the next ecofin meeting on 5 december. the presidency has also initiated a debate on the taxation of the digital economy, which should provide input into oecd discussions. we are also happy that the commission has announced that it will put forward a legislative proposal on this matter next spring. on this front, we will need the cooperation of our global partners so that international tax rules could be revised and adjusted to the reality of digitalisation. we are, in this respect, closely monitoring international developments. the council is taking the paradise papers revelations very seriously and is moving fast to deliver progress. a fairer tax system is what our citizens expect from us.
member of the commission. madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, like all of you, i am deeply outraged by the recent revelations of the paradise papers, which follow other scandals of the same nature. every day, new news in the newspapers of all our countries sheds a little more light on what we can call a perfectly oiled global circuit of aggressive tax planning. a very aggressive tax planning system. i'm shocked, but i'm not surprised. we have long known that multinationals, wealthy taxpayers, consultancies and banks are working hand in hand to avoid taxation of huge swathes of income, and to do this they spare neither money nor imagination. we are not dealing with isolated incidents, but with practices that are systemic, global and organized. these aggressive tax optimisation schemes are all the more shocking as many of them - this remains to be verified - are apparently legal. we must therefore respond to a defect in the law by means of a new regulatory framework. if it is legal, as some claim, then the law must be changed and that is what i want to do with the help of this parliament. that is why, from the beginning of my mandate in the european commission, i have emphasised transparency, because i am convinced that transparency is our first weapon. it will put an end to the culture of secrecy and the feeling of impunity of those who practice and benefit from tax evasion. these are a bit like vampires, in a way: they fear nothing but light. we're the ones who have to make that light. today, there are three major proposals to be finalised to ensure greater transparency in our tax systems. as regards the first, i proposed to you last june new rules on transparency for tax intermediaries, that is to say lawyers, bankers and consultants who sell these tax optimisation schemes. the reason for this is purely commercial. if my proposal is accepted, they will have to systematically declare these arrangements to the tax authorities of the buyer's country. if these schemes are illegal, then the tax authorities can prosecute. if they are legal, the tax authorities will be able to identify the fault and correct it. i hope, and i say this with firmness, that the council will adopt the proposal on tax intermediaries within the next six months. it is an easy proposal, which is simple, and it is therefore primarily a matter of political will. there's no time to lose. there is really no reason to delay this adoption. in parallel, as you know, my colleague, vera jourová, has proposed more transparency on beneficial ownership in the context of the anti-money laundering directive. this information must be made public to combat the opaque structures that the paradise papers have revealed. today i have to admit that the negotiations are struggling to find a satisfactory answer and outcome. i deeply regret this and encourage the co-legislators to do everything possible to ensure that these new rules can be implemented as soon as possible. the citizens would not understand our inaction after the new warning shot of the paradise papers. the second proposal i am basically in favour of is to target companies through the publication of mandatory public information, country by country. what would this publication change? it would give every citizen a power of control and pressure that they do not have today. if this is achieved, we will have a publication accessible to all, citizens, the media, ngos, and you parliamentarians yourselves, of accounting and tax data which today are made available - this is already a progress - to tax administrations, but only to them. because it is through the pressure of the press, it is through the pressure of public opinion that we can change the rules. these paradise papers, like all these scandals, are both good news and bad news. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to say again to those who are hesitant in the council: i do not believe that transparency and competitiveness should be pitted against each other. on the contrary, i believe that transparency is a factor in the competitiveness of companies and that it is always in a company's interest to behave as a good citizen, as a good taxpayer ex ante rather than being denounced ex post in revelations or leaks. let us not be afraid of this publication of information country by country, i insist on this notion of publication. that's what i've been saying since the first day i was here. finally, this is my third proposal, we must have a european blacklist of tax havens that the member states have wanted to establish under their own responsibility, the minister said. i undertook to complete this list quickly after the panama papers scandal and the commission quickly made its proposal. i urge the member states to adopt it this time, not in six months, but at the next ecofin council of finance ministers on 5 december. on december 5th, we must have a blacklist of tax havens. the work undertaken so far in this area has already led to some interesting developments. 92 third countries were 'screened' and the vast majority cooperated with the eu experts. several of them have already committed themselves to reforming their tax legislation to bring it into line with european standards, but i am sure that we still have enough to make a credible list. the other countries that are problematic still have the opportunity to make commitments at the highest political level, in writing, by the end of this week, no later. member states have indicated that these commitments will be taken into account when the blacklist is adopted in early december, but i call on the member states and the code of conduct group to remain firm and united on the european union's demands and to only accept very concrete commitments. these commitments will have to be sufficiently precise in substance, particularly for third countries which currently do not apply any tax on profits. in my view, not taxing profits is a serious breach of the rules. the absence of taxation should not be used by these countries to artificially attract profits made elsewhere and thus encourage the establishment of letterbox companies. what i want is a list that is credible, ambitious, with deterrent sanctions. there is no mystery. we need to hit the wallets of fraudsters and tax havens to get the lines moving. it's a crucial battle to be won in the next few weeks. the last discussion in the ecofin council gave me a certain optimism, although i still heard some ministers saying that they could, i hope, erase some of the nuances by 5 december. yes, sanctions are necessary and yes, not having a tax on profits is clearly a problem. i say this to some of my colleagues who spoke at the time. a word about another notion. in addition to transparency, we also need convergence of tax rules. it is the absence of common rules in europe that allows companies to practice this aggressive tax planning. this system thrives and persists thanks to the weaknesses of the current national legislation and the differences between these laws. that is why, once again, i call on the member states to adopt the european corporate tax base as soon as possible. the cacis would further limit the artificial transfer of profits between countries, which is one of the major problems we are facing. once again, the ball is in the capitalist's court to move forward with this major project. it is imperative to accelerate the discussions and to establish a timetable for concluding this common and consolidated european corporate tax base in 2018. it is essential that this text should now be the subject of agreement. ladies and gentlemen, remarkable progress has been made in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion during this mandate. i do not want and cannot allow it to be said that the european union has sinned by inaction. no, we have made progress together which has not been made before and we must not beat ourselves up, beat ourselves up. we are not responsible for what is wrong, but we are responsible for trying to make things better. bank secrecy has been abolished throughout europe, not just the european union, since this year. taxation of profits where they are generated limits the transfer of profits to countries with favourable tax treatment. it exists because of us. with the adoption of the measures currently on the table, which i have mentioned, our anti-avoidance shield would be considerably strengthened. if these measures had been put in place in the last three years, if transparency had been the rule, if the light had been on, then i think we could have avoided the last scandal. the member states must assume their responsibilities by implementing as quickly as possible the measures already adopted. some of the cases raised by the paradise papers are the result of legal provisions that will have to be repealed as part of the implementation of the anti-tax evasion directives.why wait until the last moment and allow practices to continue that should no longer be allowed? work must be speeded up by adopting the list of tax havens on 5 december, adopting rules on tax intermediaries within six months, and adopting the european corporate tax base within a year. you see, i'm setting an agenda for our work together for the coming year. i know i can count on the european parliament because we have been allies since the beginning of this long battle with different sensibilities and positions to push the member states along the path which they do not always take spontaneously, but which they always end up following thanks to you and a little thanks to us. i want to thank you warmly here, because none of the progress we have made together over the last three years would have been possible without the support of the european representation. now we must take another decisive step, and we will do it together. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our economy is being eaten up by a cancer: tax fraud and embezzlement. it is shameful that while states were being forced to make austerity policies, multinational corporations and private citizens were embezzling billions of euros from the public purse by not paying taxes. we have denounced this shame as socialists and democrats and we must acknowledge the juncker commission and in particular commissioner moscovici for putting forward important and courageous proposals. i think of country by country reporting: we want information on the financial activities of multinationals to be presented country by country in their balance sheets. it is right that citizens know where multinationals make their profits because it is in that country that they have to pay their taxes. we keep saying it over and over again: the tax is payable in the country where the profits are made. parliament has approved its position on this. what is the council doing? what are the member states doing? very little, almost nothing. we also want a clear and credible definition of a tax haven. the current list includes trinidad and tobago, it's ridiculous! make a credible list and expect sanctions. the member states are also slowing down on this. besides, the smart ones pay. the competent authorities must suspend or revoke the banking licenses of financial institutions and financial advisers who help to organise fraud. behind all these scandals are the same celebrities, the same consultants, the same banks. we challenge the council on these commitments. as is often the case, parliament is ready, but the council must lend a hand to give a credible answer to the citizens. if we do not do this, we will be destroying the margin of confidence we still have in our citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again an incredible tax scandal, where it turns out that, in a totally legal way, more than 100 multinationals, 120 politicians, managers and celebrities have not paid their taxes, while we find ourselves in situations, in our countries of the european union, where ordinary citizens and businesses are continually crushed by an incredible tax burden. this is a sense of injustice that citizens feel, and what they sense is that politics is unable to react precisely because it is collusive, precisely because the most influential people in the world are involved. i wonder, as much as i respect commissioner moscovici and the work he is doing, where the hell is president juncker, the man who led the grand duchy of luxembourg for 20 years and who made tax evasion a way of enriching his country. where the hell is he? because he represents the european commission today and he should be able to speak out on these issues. i was in luxembourg: they have a lot of nice companies with a lot of intercoms, a lot of mailboxes and very few people working in them. what does that mean? that it is a system within the european union, in a founding country, which very often gives us southern countries a moral about the reforms to be implemented, which does not implement the most important reform it should do, which is to eliminate this disgusting system of tax avoidance, because it is about the interests of billions and everyone is involved, i repeat, politicians, large companies, managers and famous people. we are bringing back justice from the founding countries of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the scandals of tax evasion and illegal activities are exploding at a steady pace, and in italy it has even emerged that they involve elements linked to the mafia. and you would have us believe that this european commission, chaired by mr junker, would want to fight against the tax havens of which, at least for luxembourg, mr juncker is, i would say, a clear protector. you are not credible because your proposals, dear mr moscovici, are lame. you have nothing decisive to propose in the fight against tax havens. for example, it does not propose to ban the activities of those companies in the european union, which have become world famous because of these scandals, and whose sole purpose is to advise tax evaders on where to deposit their current accounts in tax havens. this is a simple measure, it does not require a science to take it. if you do not want to protect tax evasion and the activities of tax havens, start with measures such as imposing bilateral agreements requiring member states to respond to tax and judicial authorities who ask for information. this is not the case in many countries of the european union, and you know this very well, mr moscovici.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the paradise papers once again demonstrate the true nature of the european union. this is the home of dumping, wage dumping through the single currency, fiscal dumping through these policies of some member states which also express high-level representatives within the european union. it's the home of all against all, of mors-your-own-life and beggar-thy-neighbor policies. the solution cannot be the european union, because the european union is the problem. there is no courage to tackle these issues, member states continue to live and gain weight at the expense of others and there is no solidarity. i would like to see if the european union will be able to include in a list of non-cooperative countries countries like juncker's luxembourg, like dijsselbloem's netherlands, like ireland and like other countries, like the united states, which are de facto tax havens. it takes more courage. the eu cannot be the solution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an estimated 21 000 billion dollars in tax havens, 80% of which is in the hands of the richest 0.1% of the world. but as the wall of omertà around the offshore is falling, the paradise papers confirm what we've been saying for a long time: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance. it is not enough to achieve transparency at european level. as parliament already called for in 2015, a genuine intergovernmental body at the un is needed to rewrite global tax rules, involving the developing countries that pay the highest price. we need transparent public registers of the ultimate beneficiaries of companies and trusts, automatic exchange of information, a blacklist with harsh sanctions for those who deal with havens, but based on objective and non-political criteria. the role of intermediaries must be regulated and tax transparency must be included in trade agreements, starting with the brexit negotiations. and it is essential to approve as soon as possible the public reporting obligation for multinational companies on a state-by-state basis, so that they can tell us how much profit they make and how much tax they pay in all the states inside and outside the eu, as this house has already asked for and voted for.
in writing. it is no longer news that new documents have been leaked proving, for the umpteenth time, how easy it is for a wealthy global elite to hide their immense fortunes from the tax authorities. the ordinary citizens, increasingly squeezed by the grip of tax pressure, feel that those who govern them do not have the political will to adequately counter systems and places that allow the escape of wealth, the absence of controls and tax evasion. how could it be otherwise when even powerful statesmen, prime ministers and ministers make use of or take advantage of tax havens? it is clear that certain policies and governments share responsibility for allowing multinational companies and a circle of the super-rich to steal resources from the public purse, forcing ordinary citizens, small businesses and the less well-off to suffer, in addition to austerity policies, the negative consequences of a reduced ability of the state to finance public services and to intervene with social or investment policies.
member of the commission. – mr president, the revision of the consumer protection cooperation regulation, which you will vote on today, is a key deliverable of the commission’s consumer strategy. i would like to thank the rapporteur on this file, ms olga sehnalová, and all the shadow rapporteurs who have spared no effort to get a good deal for eu consumers. europe has the best consumer legislation in the world. however, it needs more effective enforcement, as was shown in the recently performed fitness check of eu consumer and marketing laws. this has confirmed the outline of our consumer strategy, which means focusing on public and private enforcement of consumer protection rules and laws. in the coming months the commission will continue to ensure that consumer law is fully complied with and that no consumer is left without the chance for better individual redress, especially in mass harm situations. this will also be one of the main objectives of the measures that we are going to propose as our new deal for consumers in the spring of next year. the consumer protection cooperation (cpc) review has responded to the trend of the opening and digitalisation of the consumer markets, which has also increased possibilities for illegal and unfair practices. unfortunately public enforcement systems in most member states date back to the pre—digital era, and in all member states the reach of public authorities is limited by national jurisdictional rules. it was therefore high time that we modernised the public enforcement of consumer laws in the eu. we have proposed to reform the way public authorities work together and, with the commission, to tackle illegal practices harming consumers’ interests and fair competition, as well as trust in the european single market. i would like to thank parliament for its support throughout the negotiations, which were swift, focused and very purposeful. once the new regulation is implemented, our citizens will be able to benefit from better working institutions securing fairer markets. public authorities throughout europe will have modern enforcement tools to tackle online offences, such as the power to find out who is behind an illegal commercial online practice, trace back financial flows, block online content or issue appropriate online warnings. a real breakthrough is that consumer protection authorities will get more leverage in their joint negotiations with multinational players. equipped with the power to accept traders’ commitments on remedies to consumers, as foreseen in the respective national laws, the authorities will be in a position to correct traders’ practices swiftly in all the member states concerned with large—scale breaches of consumer rights. this will also avoid many lengthy civil court actions in situations where harm has been caused to many consumers across borders. last but not least, the commission will have a key market surveillance role. it will be in a position to request member states investigate in a coordinated manner practices that do not look right when such practices concern a large part of the union. the regulation on consumer protection cooperation review that you will approve today is a key part of the mosaic of the consumer strategy of this commission. thank you in advance for your support.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european consumer is protected in his rights when he decides to buy, even online, in another country of the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders. the revision of this regulation has two main objectives: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance programmes, in particular the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance programmes. the latter will have their executive powers strengthened and increased, such as the power to impose sanctions and to oblige the person responsible for inflation to compensate the consumers harmed. these are necessary tools to prevent significant abuses which are not detected or adequately addressed today, also and above all because of their cross-border dimension. an ad hoc mechanism will also be set up to counter abusive practices which occur in more than two thirds of the countries and which therefore risk threatening the common interest of european citizens. the adoption of this regulation will give consumers and the authorities more effective means of combating widespread fraud against european citizens, as has unfortunately happened in the past, starting with the volkswagen case. finally, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs olga sehnalová, for the excellent result achieved at the trilogue, where she successfully defended most of the requests made by the european parliament.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the online world there are no borders and it is more difficult to combat transnational fraud, partly because the action of national authorities is limited by the different procedures between countries. the result is that fraud affecting consumers in several countries is not dealt with in a coordinated and coherent way, to the detriment of all citizens, as in the volkswagen scandal which involved eight million vehicles in europe. it is therefore necessary that the european national authorities should have minimum powers in common, so as to guarantee a basic level of consumer protection, below which it is not possible to go. this regulation on cooperation between national consumer protection authorities is a step in this direction. it enables authorities, for example, to access sensitive information across borders, such as financial flows. consumer associations are involved and can report suspected fraud directly to the states and the commission. but we are asking for more ambition in terms of compensation for citizens. we have therefore tabled amendments to ensure that national authorities have the power to order companies that commit fraud to compensate the citizens who have been harmed, including by returning profits. this is a duty owed to consumers. i therefore ask the house to support these amendments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the primary objective of the regulation on consumer protection cooperation is to ensure legal certainty in the single market. however, the current rate of non-compliance with the union acquis on consumer protection shows that the situation is not optimal. the coordinated checks of e-commerce websites show a non-compliance rate with the basic standards of between 32% and 69% in the markets checked. the approach of the new regulation will be to develop modern, efficient and effective mechanisms to reduce situations where cross-border infringements are not sufficiently addressed and to ensure that consumer protection authorities reach similar conclusions on identical abusive practices. a harmonised framework for coordinating enforcement activities by authorities will allow for effective cross-border cooperation between public authorities to prevent non-compliant operators from exploiting deficiencies, territorial limitations and other constraints affecting the ability to enforce the rules of each member state.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, in my concluding remarks i would like to explain the two basic pillars of our consumer policy. consumer policy in the eu is based on the protection of the weaker side of the commercial relationship. as we can see, we are facing a totally new situation because the position of the consumer in the online world is very different from the position in his or her shop in his or her street. this asymmetry of power is something we have to address. the second pillar is that we need to have our consumers in the eu legally well-equipped, with the possibility of defending their rights themselves. that is why we are focusing, on the one hand, on better public enforcement: we are doing this through the cpc regulation review and i am sure we are doing the proper thing for eu consumers. on the other hand, there are dishonest traders who cause much harm to consumers. the second thing, which we plan for spring next year, is to improve the situation in private enforcement for consumers. you know that we are considering some possibility of european union collective redress. of course, as justice commissioner, i also have in mind to come with measures which will not increase the workload for the european courts, so i welcome alternative ways to settle disputes and this is where the cpc review can help. ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your support and i hope for your positive vote later today. commission statement(in writing) the european commission declares the following. article 21 requires competent authorities to take the necessary enforcement measures to cease widespread infringements. the article sets out (in a non-exhaustive manner) in what situations enforcement measures are particularly appropriate. amongst these situations, article 21 lists: in paragraph (1) (d) commitments which are insufficient to ensure the cessation of the infringement or, where appropriate, to remedy consumers harmed by the infringement; and in paragraph (1) (e) the failure by the trader to implement those commitments. article 21 (1) (d) and (e) must be read in consistency with the objectives of the regulation, which are to set up an effective and efficient enforcement cooperation among competent public enforcement authorities to detect, investigate and order the cessation of intra-union infringements and widespread infringement, and with the main provisions on remedial measures contained in the regulation, in particular article 9 (4) (c). in coordinated actions, where a competent authority has sought to obtain commitments from the trader to offer adequate remedies to the consumers concerned by an infringement, it may be particularly appropriate to take enforcement measures when those commitments are insufficient to remedy consumers harmed by the infringement or when those commitments are not implemented."
in writing. commissioner, the revision of the regulation under discussion today was now necessary to overcome the new challenges posed by the advent of the digital age and the exponential growth of electronic commerce. in 2014, two thirds of individual complaints concerned cross-border online purchases, with an estimated damage to consumers of around eur 770 million per year. the eu, in order to fully exploit the growth potential of the digital single market, must firmly counter illegal and unfair practices that directly harm consumers and their trust in e-commerce. consumer protection must therefore be pursued by strengthening the powers of the competent national authorities to ensure that economic operators are committed to compensating consumers in the event of unlawful practices, on fair terms for all and through efficient and transparent procedures, with the european commission playing a coordinating role in the event of infringements that threaten the collective interest of consumers. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and on her efforts to get more consumer associations involved, so that they can report cases of suspected infringement to the competent authorities.
the european union has a long history of human rights violations, and the european union has a long history of human rights violations. improving road safety in the european union is a key element, if not to eliminate these numbers altogether, then certainly to reduce the statistics considerably. safety technologies to be included in the next revision of the legislation, such as driver assistance, automatic emergency braking and intelligent speed control assistance are priorities and must become standard features as soon as possible, but really across europe. but that is not all. we must demand that, where non-compliance is found, european consumers should be able to count on rapid, appropriate and coordinated corrective measures. only then can we contribute to a process that will prevent a massacre on the streets.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my neighbours would have a lot to say about what is happening in malta. but, in a minute, i would first like to express my appreciation for parliament's decision to send the delegation of libe and pana members to the island. however, i find it extremely contradictory that the decision to exclude from the subject of the mission any reference to the case of the brutal murder of dafne caruana galizia, the journalist who had come to this parliament to shed light on the panama papers. on that occasion, he denounced what he had discovered about the system of tax havens and the business that revolves around us, both european and non-european. his investigations had reached a crucial point when they were abruptly interrupted by those who had and still have an interest in keeping these serious financial crimes and more hidden. so i ask myself: how dare we speak of the rule of law today if we do not consider it a top priority to shed light on an attack of such importance? as rapporteur for the directive on combating money laundering by criminal law, i hope that we can make real progress both in combating money laundering at european level and in using this delegation to go to malta to shed light on the problems that have emerged.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in malta and what happened to the journalist dafne caruana galizia is terrible, because she was an honest person, who was investigating very complex issues, in which there are huge conflicts of interest between politics, organised crime and finance, in short very large powers which in some way also influence our activities. she had a message on her blog before she was murdered that these institutions should go out of their way to try to marry her cause. unfortunately, he's no longer with us. i would not like this signal to be overlooked, as happens every time in these cases, since we have had cases of murders like this in italy. we must react, we must make sure that the healthy part of the institutions starts to make really healthy rules and that they stop covering up everything that happens later in reality. for example, i am sorry that commission president juncker is not here today for the second debate in this parliament on this subject, as he did not appear today on the paradise papers scandal. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the killing of daphne must be a turning point. it is not enough that everyone has expressed their outrage through the media, but also to the family. that's not enough. we must seek the truth and the truth must come out, and the first person to be responsible for this search must be the maltese government. the european parliament, which i remember is the largest democratically elected institution in the world, has the task of finding the truth together with malta, and above all our colleagues are also calling for us not to leave this reality and this state of the european union alone. the fight for daphne and her family must become the fight of all europeans, with respect for tolerance. the european parliament must be able to take part in the debate on the future of europe. you see, it is malta that must prove that it is a state governed by the rule of law, and i have great doubts, also as an italian, when a state allows its citizenship, its values, its dignity and its origin to be sold for a few euros. this is also something that has to be assessed within the rule of law and, you see, i would also like to receive a clear and precise answer - but i think not only me, but also all european citizens - because daphne has received threats, she has denounced, but nobody has done anything. why is that? why didn't anyone move? because this death could have been avoided and there was no reaction from the maltese government and from the authorities and the police. i really thank the european parliament and i hope that the commission will tell the truth and encourage malta to find the truth.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, daphne was considered by many to be a pioneer of investigative journalism. daphne was listed among the people who would shape and shake europe in 2017. daphne believed in freedom of expression and carried out with passion and professionalism a profession she loved more than anything else. daphne was brutally murdered because, with the force of her words, she was defending the fundamental values of freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law, and she stood up to those who seek to violate this rule of law. there's no one person responsible for his death. there is a corrupt system that works against the great value of democracy and that has ramifications inside and outside the european union. we count on the maltese government and the assistance it receives from the leading european and international investigative agencies to shed light on this barbaric murder, to bring justice to dafne and her work as an investigative journalist and her extraordinary contribution to the establishment of the rule of law, not only in malta but throughout europe.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the world has never been so interconnected and yet never been so unequal. that is why the wto must work and ensure fair trade for all, based on clear rules. the wto undeniably needs a renewal that puts citizens at the centre, but this cannot happen without the essential contribution of the united states, which instead is systematically working to weaken it or to subordinate it to its own interests. rights and trade are on the same track, and if the wto starts doing the dirty work for the americans and questioning the dangers of using cadmium, glyphosate and hormones in food, then we will stand by and watch big countries like the us or china destroy our laws. i expect the buenos aires conference to make a real effort to revive the wto in this sense, or else we shall have to say goodbye to this institution.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that we have a great responsibility towards the citizens who are asking us for concrete and targeted answers to solve the dramatic problems that beset them. in the light of the commitments made by the european union through the 2020 strategy, which refers to raising the employment rate in europe by 75%, we must ask ourselves a question. the important question is whether trade policy plays a central role in ensuring that growth, prosperity, employment and the maintenance of the welfare state are all interlinked with it. i strongly believe that you do. in fact, millions of jobs depend on the european trade agenda, seeking new markets abroad and, above all, defining effective instruments to protect our european industry. the question we are discussing today is not just whether china is a market economy or not, but rather whether our european system can and must - in my view, in a binding way - achieve the condition of giving rules which are equal for all and of giving rules which make everyone start from the same starting point, that is, fair and fair competition. we know that european industry employs 34 million workers in our member states, including hundreds of small and mediumsized enterprises, that between 2000 and 2014 the share of european production fell from 18 to 15%, that between 2008 and 2014 3.5 million jobs were lost, that in the steel sector alone there is overcapacity which becomes logically dangerous compared to the international market. i say this to make clear and emphasize the strategic importance of this measure, which has aroused great interest in european industry but also legitimate concern, and which has always aroused the motivation and interest here in the european parliament. i am therefore convinced that the result we are reaching is an important, fundamental, central result, with great work. it is thanks to the cooperation of all the political groups and the shadow colleagues in the commission and the council that it has been possible to reach an agreed text today, and a text which, in my opinion, is the best result we could achieve. i'll try to give you a quick indication of the key steps. firstly, the possibility of continuing to use an alternative method of calculating dumping to the standard method, the strengthening of the definition of significant destruction and the introduction of criteria which are finally becoming complete and strong, especially in parliament's contribution to the valid commission proposal, and which also go in the direction of finally giving an opening to social, environmental and also the transfer of the burden of proof, where the commission's statement was precisely that there will be no further burdens on our industry with respect to the procedure, transparency and the commission's reports.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new anti-dumping legislation we are discussing today has a major impact on the future of european industry and on the lives of thousands of workers. the work of parliament has led to the first time that the failure to apply internationally recognised social and environmental standards is taken into account in the assessment of unfair competition practices. it is a timid first step, since these assessments are included in recitals and not in paragraphs of the new text, but it is nevertheless a significant step. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. we believe that the european union must give serious thought to its industrial policy, or rather to the absence of an industrial and development policy of its own. the insistence on the neoliberal economic and social model, which has left everything to the market and which has prevented member states from economic planning, public intervention in the economy and planning elements, has weakened our industry and exposed us increasingly to competition from third countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we often find ourselves voting on matters whose impact on the lives of ordinary people seems very limited or perceptible only to those who are in the know. but the vote we are about to take tomorrow is of a very different nature: the result will have a direct and lasting impact on all european citizens and the vast majority of our businesses. it is an important vote, i would even say a decisive vote. to make such a wrong choice is a serious matter and will have serious consequences. we have tried from the outset to remind everyone of the sensitivity of this subject. we have shown that the choice of ways and timing to adapt european legislation to china's demand was devoid of strategic vision, driven by partisan interests and destined to be ineffective. the new proposed methodology is showing its serious limitations even before it is approved. the chinese government has already announced that it will oppose the reform in the wto, and the latest communist party congress has clearly indicated that china intends to increase state control over its domestic economy and have a say over foreign companies operating in china. china is emerging as an economic powerhouse that has come nowhere near the market economy as understood by the west. whole industry groups have said that in five to seven years at most they will no longer be able to stem the aggressive competition of chinese industries. this new methodology does not strengthen economic legality and exposes european industry, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, to uncertainty. we must have the courage to say that europe will be weaker when our strength is no longer in the certainty of the rules but in the ambiguity and discretion of the commission. i will vote against, in line with the resolution voted by this parliament in may 2016, the key points of which have, in my view, been ignored by the commission and the council.
madam president, good evening, good wishes and good work. ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this subject forces me to make a clarification at the outset. first of all, i would counter the observation that all this work is aimed at protecting someone from someone else. the game plan here is to defend those who accept the market rules against those who don't. so it's not protection, but it's a serious job protecting those who work well. in this context, the commission's initial proposal was legitimately intended to avoid the risks associated with litigation within the wto by china, but the commission's reaction generated a product that ended up putting companies on the continent in difficulty. the work done by mr cicu, for which i thank him, has had the good fortune to put parliament at the centre of the battle, so that measures are clear again, not of protection but of gratitude towards the european enterprise.
madam president, i wish you well. mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on the subject of the situation in the former yugoslavia. we have fought a hard battle, and thanks to this the european union can now have anti-dumping instruments to counter the unfair practices that are increasingly taking place on the world market and creating imbalances within the european market, as is shown by the 100 measures in force, 85 of which are against chinese products. the new regulation has the merit of including the reference to international environmental and labour standards to identify any significant distortions of prices and market costs, and ensures continuity with the current protection system, without additional burden for european industry. i am sorry that the council is not here, but we hope that the council will show the same ambition on another important issue, namely the reform of trade defence instruments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached in the trilogue is moving in the right direction. in order to determine dumping, especially in the case of severe distortions of competition, it is essential to refer to costs and prices of production in third countries. the circumstances in which significant distortions can be inferred, which may affect free market forces, are defined and a new methodology for calculating anti-dumping duties is established, which takes account of both so-called micro distortions of prices and costs and macro distortions linked to, for example, subsidies and investments. in assessing unfair trading practices, due consideration shall be given to compliance with environmental criteria and, with reference to the standards of the international labour organisation, to compliance with labour law. finally, european industry and trade unions will be able to report distortions to the commission without any additional burden on them. this is a very good result for the european union, for european industry and for european citizens. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr cicu, on his report.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all the members; it has been a very useful debate, and it has shown a very broad support for this new piece of legislation – a legislation that will protect our industry from unfair practices, from unfair trade, especially when it comes from market distortion. it does so in a country-neutral way. with this, we go away from our old system of dividing countries into non-market and market economies. the new methodology will look at all countries to see if there are distortions. this is not – and i would like to repeat that – this is not about giving market economy status to china. it never has been. the historical writing here should be revised a little bit: it has never been about this; it has been about respecting our commitments in the wto. china is not a market economy – if it were, it would be much easier. this is not about china – it is about any country. the anti-dumping methodology is to capture market distortion; it is linked to intervention in third countries or in sectors of the country. it will ensure a smooth transition to the new methodology for the measures already in place, the grandfather with a clear time frame, and we strengthen our anti-dumping instrument to increase our ability to capture the full magnitude of subsidisation by making it possible to address subsidies identified in the course of the investigation. also, as you have mentioned, it is taking into account social and environmental standards in a trade defence context for the first time. the draft reports for a country or for a sector where we find distortions will be made public – there are no secret reports. this is a trade defence instrument that is efficient, and where we comply with international obligations. trade is good; it leads to a lot of advantages – growth, investment, jobs. but trade has to be fair, and we have to have a fair, level playing field, and with this we will assure that we can contribute to this. the trade defence instrument is also an important piece of legislation. i know that there are two more trilogue plans in the coming weeks; i am sure that we will make good progress if we cannot finish this. we are closer to each other than has been insinuated here, and i am sure that – together with the council, the commission and parliament – we will do our utmost to get an agreement here before christmas. i would again like to thank the rapporteur mr cicu, his team and all the shadow rapporteurs, and all the teams in the trilogue for making this such a good piece of legislation, and i hope for a very strong endorsement tomorrow at the vote.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that after ten months of intensive work, which i believe has been fruitful and effective, we should remember that this is a very important step forward, but now we must look at the application of this new methodology after tomorrow's vote. so i would like to convey two thoughts to the commission and the commissioner. the first is that parliament's role will be to monitor the application of a methodology which is in line with the work we have done, which i think is extraordinary, in an effective, highly effective way. the other aspect, madam commissioner, is that your statements, which are extremely important, concern the fact that our companies and our industry should not have any additional burden in applying this methodology. so no bureaucracy, but above all, as you said, fairness and a chance to prove that there must be a guarantee, a protection, a defence of fair competition. of course, the application of this methodology cannot be less effective than the present one. so i think that if we continue to work towards these goals, we will certainly bring home an extraordinary result in terms of our project, our 2020 programme. i would also like to thank, and especially president lange, i would like to thank the members of the inta committee for the extraordinary work they have done, and indeed everyone for the contribution they have made in this capacity and to achieve an extraordinary and important result which is truly strong. so i think tomorrow's move will be the most decisive and effective.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr ponga, for an excellent and very useful report. we are very glad to see that the arguments and priority areas set out in your report concur with the thinking outlined in the joint communication for a renewed impetus of the africa-eu partnership from may 2017 and the june council conclusions. the key priorities under the heading ‘resilience’, referring to improved political security as well as environmental, economic and social resilience, are duly reflected in our work with african partners. the resolution underlines the critical role of african youth in light of a significant population growth. more than half of global population growth between now and 2050 is expected to occur in africa. according to projections, sub-saharan africa needs to create around 18 million new jobs each year up to 2035 in order to absorb new labour market entrants, compared to the three million formal jobs created today. it should be a priority for both africa and europe to turn demographic developments into a dividend. we require inclusive development and sustainable growth for large-scale job creation. the leitmotiv of the fifth au-eu summit taking place on 29—30 november this year in abidjan, côte d’ivoire, will be investing in youth. more broadly, this will provide a critical opportunity for the eu and africa to build a stronger political partnership and increase our cooperation in the international arena, guided by: the un’s 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals; the african union’s agenda 2063; the global strategy for the european union’s foreign and security policy; as well as the new european consensus on development. the finalisation of your report just a few weeks before this event is very timely, and it is appreciated to see key teams and priority areas reinforced by its content. the summit should strive to bring africa and europe closer together through the strengthening of economic cooperation and the promotion of sustainable development, with both continents living side by side in peace, security, democracy, prosperity, solidarity and human dignity. the summit should confirm and strengthen our mutual engagement and joint action for the period 2018 to 2020 in the framework of the joint africa-eu strategy. as you know well, the africa-eu strategic partnership is based on shared values. it promotes common interests and shared strategic objectives, which are at the centre of the political and policy dialogue between the african union and the european union, as well as between the african union member states and the eu. this also involves a fruitful dialogue and cooperation between the european parliament and the pan-african parliament, which we strongly encourage. i am glad to note that the meeting between the european parliament and the pan-african parliament will take place on 27 and 28 november in abidjan. this partnership must also go beyond political institutions and involve all stakeholders: non-state actors such as civil society organisations, youth organisations, the private sector, as well as economic and social actors. the summit agenda will be built around five key themes: peace and security; governance; investment and job creation; knowledge and skills; and mobility and migration. the overarching theme of youth will be prominently reflected throughout the summit’s agenda. we are exploring the possibility of strengthening the involvement of different stakeholders, in particular of youth, beyond the customary presentation of the recommendations in the opening session. the european union aims for concrete outcomes that make a difference, setting a collective agenda with ownership and contributions from all in the priority areas, with strong commitments from both sides coupled with concrete joint initiatives. for example, digital technologies and services are major drivers to boost development and a major source of growth and quality jobs for youth in various sectors, while also empowering women and girls. sustainable energy and agriculture, the blue economy, building climate resilience, and research and innovation are equally important, and the list goes on. significant work has been undertaken in preparation of the summit with the clear objective to go beyond declarations of intent and to establish concrete proposals for implementation. in the run-up to the summit, two successful summit side events have already taken place: the civil society forum in tunis in july and the youth summit in abidjan on 9 and 11 october. a number of other events will follow and i would like to mention the eu-africa business forum on 27 november. this sixth eu-africa business forum will be entitled ‘investing in job creation for youth’, with a specific focus on youth and women’s entrepreneurship. it will also deal with innovative financing and provide a platform to promote the eu’s new external investment plan, agri-business, renewable energy and digitalisation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial moment in relations between europe and africa. on 28 and 29 november this fifth summit will finally be an african union-european union summit, in name and in fact, and will be fundamental to redefining a much-needed future collaboration between our two blocs. the european union and its member states are the main partner for africa, a continent whose population is set to double by 2050. for this very reason, the main aspect on which we must focus is support for african youth, a theme which is at the heart of this conference, but which must be in action and not just in words. if we really want to build resilient societies and fight the root causes of radicalization, that's where we need to act, and it's by creating jobs, creating participation, giving hope to those who don't have it today that we can change the face of a continent that is the main mirror of our geopolitical ambition. it is up to us to see how this mirror will look at us in the years to come. if we are brave or if we are consistent with our values, then it will not be the image that we have seen so far.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, relations between europe and africa are not only an interinstitutional matter but also an economic and cultural one. in calling for a new partnership strategy, we refer to the sacred right of african citizens to live in territories that guarantee well-being and dignity for all, economic development, food security, good governance, security tout court, migration and mobility, the environment. these issues in the resolution are also fundamental elements of a political vision at the service of the people. we must therefore ensure that our position respects the emancipatory impulse of the african people, who have long expressed the need to live under a real rule of law. the resolution's focus on young people can only be effective if it does not rely on economic policy greed. we must therefore remove the spectre of domination and superiority and act in a more equal way, that is, win-win, so that europe and africa will forever become mutually satisfactory partners.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that africa is an important partner for europe, and it is becoming more and more evident every day. migration, raw materials, terrorism, population growth, peace and security, environment and development are just some of the areas where cooperation between the two continents can bear important fruit and it is crucial to keep this in mind in view of the eu-africa summit in abidjan. but if we are going to deal effectively with these issues and if we are going to really solve the big common problems, then we have to have the courage to call things by their right names and to tackle the problems at their roots. we must make it clear that development is not achieved by feeding the multinationals, that it is not by turning a blind eye to human rights violations that migration is combated and that peace is not achieved by weapons. i hope that the next summit of heads of state will be able to deal with the serious problems on the table with a different approach, with a long-term perspective and with a straight back to the inevitable pressures of the big power groups pursuing particular interests, often in conflict with the common good in africa.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, africa is an important and strategic partner for the eu. yet for some time now, relations with african countries have been heavily influenced by policies of outsourcing our frontiers and responsibilities. but we will pay dearly for the security obsession of european governments who are making agreements, such as the migration compact, which want to make development aid conditional on border controls. these policies do not eradicate poverty, but increase it, and they certainly do not create opportunities for young africans. in this way we risk pushing our african partners towards other partners, concentrating aid on countries on the routes that affect europe, forgetting others, and we risk dramatically impacting african economies for which intra-regional mobility is essential. so what are european governments doing? they're focusing on supporting the libyan coast guard, which the other day was obstructing search and rescue operations, causing the death of five people including a child. what are they doing? they're sending people back to libya, to prisons where people are being tortured, people trying to escape. the un high commissioner for human rights also spoke today of an affront to human conscience. i ask you to think about this and change these policies that are harmful.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank the members for their comments. the commission appreciates today’s rich debate showing the parliament’s strong commitment and expertise regarding the improved africa-eu relations. there is a general consensus on the work that remains to be done and on the key areas to be addressed. i must assure the house that the commission is committed to fostering sustainable development and inclusive growth in africa, in line with the priorities identified in the report. in this respect, the upcoming au—eu summit on 29—30 november 2017 is a key milestone for strengthening our partnership with the african partners. it is good to know that the key priorities covered by the report include economic development and job creation, natural resources, good governance, security, migration, the environment, education and youth – largely in line with the commission’s priorities as well. as commissioner for the environment, i was also pleased to note the emphasis of the report – as well as the comments during this debate – on sustainable development, including the sustainable use of natural resources such as minerals, timber and wildlife, sustainable agriculture and industry, and the development of the blue economy and maritime industry. i was also pleased to see reference to the action plan against wildlife trafficking. the commission is committed to working closely with parliament and the eu member states to ensure that we jointly advance our positive partnership with africa. as i said earlier, the upcoming au—eu summit will be a testimony to our collective engagement, and a great opportunity to promote sustainable development for the benefit of all. i would like to thank mr ponga once again for his excellent work, and all the members of this house for their contribution.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank mr demesmaeker and the house for this opportunity to discuss with you the commission action plan for nature, people and the economy. as you know, the plan is the result of a comprehensive and participatory evaluation process and a fitness check on the habitats and birds directives. the findings of the fitness check were fully endorsed by the college of commissioners during an orientation debate in december last year. the conclusion was clear: there is no essential problem with the legal framework of the habitats and birds directives. it remains fundamentally sound, but there are problems with the application of the framework, and that is why we do not get the results that we want. there are funding shortages and we need more knowledge and more commitment. these are the key issues and that is why we prepared a strategic plan to address those gaps. let me turn to the specific questions you have tabled for today’s debate. your first question is about the links between the action plan and the 2020 biodiversity strategy. the action plan includes 15 concrete actions. these reflect the findings of the fitness check on the habitats and birds directives and address the main shortcomings revealed by this evidence-based evaluation. the aim of the plan is rapidly to improve the practical implementation of the directives, to accelerate progress towards the eu 2020 goal of halting and reversing the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services, and to improve consistency between the habitats and birds directives and broader socio-economic objectives. implementation of the action plan is essential in order to make progress on target 1 of the eu biodiversity strategy, to – and i quote – ‘fully implement the birds and habitats directives’. it will also contribute to achieving other targets in this strategy, namely targets 2, 3 and 4, on restoration, agriculture, forestry and fisheries. most of the actions are being launched in 2017 so that the commission can report on their delivery before the end of its current term of office in 2019. we are aware that further efforts are needed to reach the 2020 biodiversity targets. the upcoming initiative to address the decline of pollinators is just one example of the commission’s response to the calls made by parliament to achieve the 2020 targets. since you also asked about the commission’s intentions from 2020 onwards, i can tell you that the nature directives provide a solid and long-term legal foundation for eu biodiversity policy. the commission plans to evaluate the eu biodiversity strategy and to report on its finding by 2020. the outcome of this evaluation will feed into thinking on the follow-up to the current eu biodiversity strategy, along with a global biodiversity framework for post-2020. let me now address question two, which concerns specific initiatives on the trans-european network for green infrastructure (ten-g), and also pollinators, access to justice and the illegal killing of birds. on ten-g, i referred to action 12 of the action plan which consists of providing guidance to support the deployment of eu-level green infrastructure, including through improving connectivity of natura 2000 areas by mid-2018. a strategy framework to facilitate a more integrated approach to green infrastructure will be proposed under the current multiannual financial framework (mff), providing some lessons for future inspiration. in addition, action 1(b) of the action plan will motivate decision-makers to invest in green infrastructure through the provision of deeper guidance and appreciation of the value of ecosystem services. on pollinators, the commission intends to launch a dedicated initiative to complement the action plan. on access to justice, as a previous legislative proposal did not prove successful in council, the commission adopted in april 2017 an interpretative notice, presenting and explaining the substantial body of case law of the court of justice on the subject, including on the nature directives. the commission also undertakes many measures to eliminate illegal bird trapping, killing and trade, in cooperation with international conventions, and enforces the provision of the birds directive prohibiting trapping, killing and trade. financial support is provided through the eu life programme funding. the commission assists member states in fulfilling their obligations under the birds directive, for example through the ongoing life european social enterprise training (euroset) project, which is developing action plans and management plans for 16 threatened bird species. the third question is about mainstreaming natura 2000 and wider biodiversity measures with other policies, especially with the common agricultural policy (cap). as regards the current funding framework, natura 2000 and wider biodiversity measures can be co-financed under several eu policies. as decisions on the allocation of eu funds under shared management rest primarily with the member states, they are not obliged to take up the opportunities for financing natura 2000 from the eu budget. actions 9 to 12 of the action plan aim to facilitate full and effective use of the financial resources allocated for biodiversity protection and natura 2000 sites in the period 2014-2020 under the various programmes and, where feasible, to promote increased allocations and uptake. in the context of action 9 under the action plan, the impact of the cap on biodiversity will be addressed in a specific evaluation scheduled for the second half of 2018. in accordance with the commission guidelines, such an evaluation includes an assessment of consistency between the various policy areas concerned. let me now turn to a specific issue which is also the subject of the third question: large carnivores. the return of large carnivores, especially the wolf, to areas where they have been absent for a long time represents a significant challenge, especially at local level. the action plan envisages a series of measures to help address these challenges. for example, the commission will update and actively promote, in all eu languages, its guidance document on species protection rules, which will include clarifications on flexibility within the existing legal framework. the commission will also bring together experts from different member states at bio-geographical level to address common challenges. this may also cover large carnivores whose populations are often transboundary. action 13 of the action plan specifically proposes providing further support through the involvement of local and regional authorities, in order to inspire dialogue and help find solutions at a local level. the commission will encourage the full and effective use of the financial resources under the european agricultural rural development fund (eardf) to support coexistence through rural development measures and, in this context, support can be provided to farmers for preventive measures aimed at mitigating the risk of damage by large carnivores to livestock farming. lastly, in question four, you ask about the next mff. here, i will be very brief as the commission is now preparing its proposals for the post-2020 mff. the indicators and the results from the ongoing financing period and the measures taken under the action plan will inform the debate and the reflections on the next mff. it is too early to give indications of how natura 2000 and wider biodiversity measures will be taken into account. i thank the members for their attention and i look forward to any further thoughts they may have on this broad, but important, topic.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the natura 2000 guidelines are now almost exactly 25 years old. and if you look back over these 25 years, you can say: on the one hand, a lot has been achieved, but on the other hand, there are perhaps few guidelines in our legal texts that provide for such friction on the ground. this is because natura 2000 guidelines are very often top-down, meaning that member states feel that they are being forced to do something, and on the other hand there are still major gaps in the management of natura 2000 sites. that is why my group, commissioner, supports the action plan presented, because we believe it is a step in the right direction and because we believe that the natura 2000 guidelines must be implemented in a subsidiary and cooperative manner. subsidiary with those who are affected on the ground with the administrations in the member states and the regions , cooperative above all with those who are really affected, and these are usually the land owners. but let me return briefly to a question which you, commissioner, have just raised, namely the question of large carnivores, particularly the wolf. where the wolf returns today, it usually creates problems, and that's because it's not returning to a natural landscape, but to a cultural landscape - a cultural landscape where there are farmers, where there is breeding of small animals, where there is tourism, where there are people, and where then it usually leads to massive problems. i am afraid, commissioner, that we are not necessarily done with a multilingual information sheet and that we cannot necessarily satisfy the farmers by saying: 'ok, we will pay for this from the agricultural fund.' this means that the farmers can pay for themselves. that is not the purpose of compensation for damage that is undoubtedly occurring. i think we have to recognize that the wolf is no longer an endangered animal today, that there are certainly populations that are in good conservation status, and that perhaps it is our job to think about taboos, to think about the question: how can we manage wolves even where good conservation status has been achieved, and do wolves really need to return to europe in a widespread way? i think that's our job. only then will we be able to give a reasonable answer to those affected on the ground.
member of the commission. – mr president, i should like to thank honourable members for their reflections and i will try to answer some of the points that were raised. mr dorfmann talked about the natura 2000 sites and said that a lot has been achieved. a lot has been achieved in identifying the natura 2000 sites, but i am not satisfied that a lot has been achieved in terms of managing them. in fact, only about 50% of the identified sites are being managed – and that is on land. when it comes to marine protected areas (mpas), in the seas, we have only reached 6% of the area that we are targeting, whereas on land we have reached 20% which has been identified, but only 10% which is being managed. on the large carnivores issue, many mentioned large carnivores and that they could be problematic, but there are solutions and some member states have found a number of solutions to a number of their problems. in our environmental implementation review (eir) we will be presenting a peer—to—peer. if member states are lacking solutions whilst others have the solutions, we will hopefully be able to bring the best practices from one member state to another. the important thing is not to move away from the problem but to find a solution. to ms kadenbach, yes, the issue of whether the legislation is in place, and whether we have the necessary funding to manage the sites, was one of the problems identified in the refit fitness check. one way of dealing with this, first of all, is that for funding which is being allocated to other sectors, especially agriculture under the cap, we have to make certain that output is compatible with the nature directives as well. she mentioned pollinators and, as i said, we will be presenting a dedicated initiative on this. i agree with ms catherine bearder that we are almost testing our biodiversity to its limits and that the news is not good, but i have to say that improvements – hopefully – will be made. that is the idea of this action plan, because if we were to continue with a ‘business as usual’ approach, things would have continued to deteriorate even further. obviously there are many reasons; most of the reasons we can handle, some of the reasons will be a little bit more problematic but we still have to handle them. i am referring for example to agriculture. i am not talking about all agriculture, because agriculture has some good practices and it has some bad practices. we are not after taking away a single euro from the cap, what we are after is making certain that every single euro which is spent in the cap is spent sustainably and in protecting and strengthening nature as well. ms boylan expressed her interests and her concerns about ireland, and again she mentioned the natura 2000 sites. as i have already said, these have been a success story, but a lot more could be achieved. we are always talking about the natura 2000 sites, which cover only 20% of our land, but we have to keep in mind that we still have to manage and protect our biodiversity in the other 80% which is outside the natura 2000 areas. mr jávor asked whether this action plan is enough. i say, no, it is not enough. why? because it is an action plan and unless it is implemented, then the whole purpose of coming up with this action plan would be totally meaningless. he also mentioned the three sectors: transport, energy and agriculture, and their financing. as i said before, we have to make certain that every single euro spent in the multiannual financial framework (mff) is spent with greening and sustainability in mind. ms schreijer-pierik mentioned the unnecessary conflict between farmers, ngos, authorities and i do agree with at least one word: ‘unnecessary’. why? because there have been some good examples of local solutions with the participation of all the stakeholders, including farmers. when we talk about the farmers and biodiversity, we have to look at the farmers as part of the solution and not always as part of the problem. i have spoken with a number of agriculture ministers, with a number of agricultural organisations, and i have to say they do understand the problem and most of them are very willing to be part of the solution and not of the problem. it is also in their interest, because when we come up with directives, with legislation to protect water, air, and soil, it is in the interest not just of nature but it is in the interest of farmers themselves. with regard to what ms melior said, that we have the directives and we have to implement: yes we have the directives, some of the directives we have had for 38 years and one of my reactions when we said, ‘ah, we have to implement them’ was: but should it take us 38 years to realise that we have to start implementing directives which we came up with 30 years ago? ms melior mentioned brandenburg, i was there, i was present, i talked to the fishermen and this week i had a team from my services there and the report that i have back is that they have agreed on a list of actions, on a programme that they will take together and hopefully if this sort of programme works, we will be able to introduce this to other regions as well. mr eck said that by 2020 that we will not achieve our targets, even with the action plan. my reaction to that is: imagine how we could achieve them then without the action plan, how we could achieve them with the ‘business as usual’ approach. i agree that we will not reach it unless we are prepared to act. mr dantin spoke about ‘nature, people and economy’ in the title. i agree with him, that is the sustainability concept. we are not talking environment, we are not talking only nature but we are talking about sustainability. sustainability does not start and end with nature, it does not start and end with people, it does not even start and end with the economy. the idea of sustainability is that one of these sectors does not move forward at the expense of the others. the issue of wolves came out several times. i have spoken about wolves in several of our member states. the last time i spoke about wolves was about two weeks ago in sweden, where they have a different problem because the problem in sweden is, from an environmental perspective, their genetic status, not a question of numbers. it is time that we took the issue of wolves – not wolves in spain, or wolves in italy, or wolves in sweden – but the whole issue of wolves across europe so that we can come up with some good ideas how to manage this species. when we talk about problematic species – we are dealing with about 1 500 species – we are always mentioning the same five. we should not disregard the whole action plan and the whole directives which are dealing with 1 500 species simply because we have a problem with two, three or four of these species. on what mr lins said, there is no better solution than a local solution, very often it happens positively that solutions are found locally between all the stakeholders, where we have farmers, ngos, fishermen, authorities and whatever. when these solutions are solved at a local level, we never hear anything about them in practice. unfortunately, when local solutions are not found, then the authorities and everyone throws those problems back to brussels. mr gieseke spoke about the wolves again and mr stanislav polčák spoke about the gaps between the directives and their implementation. a very good, important point that was mentioned was the need for the local and regional level. when we talk about implementation, very often we discuss implementation with central government but the implementation is taking place on the ground at local and regional level. i believe that that is where the focus should be. i agree with mr tolić that we have not only to implement but to speed up implementation because there is a lot of urgency. unfortunately, i talk about this urgency because i fear that things are happening quicker than we were expecting, and i always give the example of the great barrier reef which i mentioned this week in bonn. when scientists started talking about the great barrier reef and the problems it will have with climate change, this was 20 years ago and they predicted that by 2050 the great barrier reef and other reefs will have problems. today, 30 years before 2050, we have a big percentage of our reefs which are already gone. i fear that things are moving fast even than our scientists are telling us. it is not just a question of acting but acting with urgency as well. we often discuss, as mr kuhn said, even on a bilateral basis, the issues of cormorants which could be not always problematic, but they can be problematic in some areas for some economic activities. as is the case with brandenburg, we are trying to solve and we are trying to be part of the solution as well. with regard to mr marias, i will look whether the specific issue has been handled or not and i will get back to you.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, common values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights are the cornerstone of the european union. each member state must therefore respect, protect and promote them. after the debates in january and september 2016, this is the third time that the council has been asked to intervene in this house on the situation in poland. the continued debate on these issues shows again that the protection and promotion of the rule of law and human rights are a constant challenge. this challenge requires unwavering attention and efforts across different policy areas. the presidency – and, indeed, all of us – agree that the protection of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in our union cannot be taken for granted. we also agree that there is never a time to be complacent about the state of fundamental rights protection in europe. our core values are put to the test every day as we are facing multiple interrelated crises, be they in the area of migration or internal security. ensuring the rule of law is an absolute priority and has to be our joint commitment, of the member states and eu institutions together. equally, fundamental rights need to be upheld and defended as our best guarantee for sustaining stable, open and free societies. only one month ago, on 12 october, the justice and home affairs council had an exchange of views with the director of the fundamental rights agency, michael o’flaherty, on the priorities in the protection of fundamental rights. after this debate, the council adopted conclusions on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights in 2016. these conclusions reaffirmed that democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights lay down the foundation of the european union and our societies. a few days later, on 17 october, the council held its annual rule of law dialogue. this year, the specific focus was on media pluralism and the rule of law in the digital age. let me assure you that the rule of law, including the independence of the judiciary and the balance of powers, are at the heart of our concerns, and the eu is not alone. our strongest partner is the council of europe, which is fully engaged in the promotion, protection and development of human rights and the rule of law. according to our information, the polish authorities are in contact with both the venice commission and the european commission, following the opinions and recommendations issued. the council has already been informed twice about the situation in poland by first vice—president timmermans, and i am looking forward to the update he will now present to us on the latest developments. from the council side, it is worth mentioning that on 11 july this year, the ecofin council adopted country—specific recommendations in the context of the 2017 european semester, of which one specific recommendation concerning poland addressed the issue of the rule of law. the issues raised go to the heart of our commitment to the union. we therefore trust that all sides will act responsibly and constructively to reach a swift solution that leaves no doubt about our core values.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i want to start by thanking this parliament for its strong engagement on this issue, and especially the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i had the honour to update on the issue on 6 november. it is not my intention to repeat everything i said then, it would take too much time, but let me start by saying that an issue pertaining to the rule of law never affects only the country concerned: it affects the whole construction of the european union. that is the basis upon which i believe this parliament’s engagement is so important. i want to recall that on 26 july the commission adopted a third rule of law recommendation addressed to the polish authorities. this was necessary after four laws adopted by the sejm would have had a very significant negative impact on the independence of the polish judiciary and would have increased the systemic threat to the rule of law. two of the four laws were sent back to parliament by the president of the republic. the recommendation also recalled the situation of a systemic threat to the rule of law, resulting from the changes to the constitutional tribunal, which have led to a serious undermining of its independence and legitimacy as the result of its complete recomposition, contrary to the normal constitutional process for the appointment of judges. moreover, the polish executive persists in its refusal to publish a number of the tribunal’s rulings. unfortunately, the polish reply regarding the third recommendation did not announce any concrete measures to address the issues raised by the commission. we have now sent four letters to the polish authorities since july, inviting them to meet. sadly, these invitations were not accepted. i have not had the opportunity to talk to polish ministers about the issue. so our exchanges have essentially been in writing. that said, my invitation still stands, and i hope i can have a dialogue with the ministers of justice or foreign affairs as soon as possible. in parallel to the rule of law recommendation, the commission has also initiated infringement proceedings in relation to the polish law on the common courts organisation, which discriminates against individuals on the basis of gender. this is contrary to article 157 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to the 2006 directive on gender equality in employment. in our reasoned opinion, the commission also raised the issue that giving the minister of justice discretionary power to prolong the term of office of judges who have reached retirement age, as well as discretionary power to dismiss and appoint court presidents, would undermine the independence of polish courts. to be very clear: the minister of justice in poland is also chief prosecutor and the chief prosecutor now has full discretionary powers to appoint and dismiss presidents of courts. just let this sink in for a moment. the commission understands that, on the basis of this law, a considerable number of court presidents have already been dismissed. the commission is currently finalising its assessment of the polish authorities’ reply, with a view to deciding on the next step. president duda also presented two new draft laws on the supreme court and on the national council for the judiciary. the commission is now analysing these new draft laws very carefully and will follow closely the related developments. at this preliminary stage of our assessment, the commission already notes that certain issues in connection with the new draft laws could raise serious concerns. the commission will continue to assess these issues thoroughly and objectively, including in the light of the venice commission opinions which will be forthcoming in december. the commission is not alone in its assessment of the gravity of the situation. other critical opinions have been issued on the draft laws, not only in poland by the supreme court, the council for the judiciary and the ombudsman, but also at european and international level. i would refer to the recent opinions of the european network of councils for the judiciary and the consultative council of european judges. i would refer, too, to the preliminary observations by the united nations special rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers, who also takes the view that the independence of the judiciary is under serious threat in poland today, and has expressed serious concerns about the two draft laws on the supreme court and the national council for the judiciary. every member state carrying out judicial reforms must respect the rule of law as one of the fundamental values to which all member states signed up when joining the eu. it is up to the member states to organise their justice systems, including whether to establish a council for the judiciary, or not. however, where such a council has been established to safeguard judicial independence, as in the polish constitution, the independence of that council must be guaranteed, in line with european standards. so let me recall for the record what it is that the commission expects from the polish authorities to avoid further escalation. first, the polish authorities should restore the independence and legitimacy of the constitutional tribunal as guarantor of the polish constitution. second, the polish authorities should bring the law on the common courts organisation into line with union law by abolishing gender discrimination and by abolishing the minister of justice’s influence on judges through the retirement regime and the dismissal or appointment of court presidents. third, the polish authorities should bring the law on the national school of judiciary into line with european standards on the independence of the judiciary by eliminating external influence on assistant judges, notably, again, by the minister of justice. and finally, the polish authorities should bring the two new draft laws on the supreme court and on the national council for the judiciary, proposed by president duda, fully into line with eu law and with european standards on the independence of the judiciary and the status of councils for the judiciary. the legislative process on these two draft laws, which is about to commence, will provide a key test for the polish authorities, to show to the outside world whether or not there is willingness to respect the rule of law and take full account of the commission’s concerns and the forthcoming opinions of the venice commission. the commission is looking for real, constructive dialogue in order to redress the situation in poland with regard to the rule of law. this parliament’s support for our efforts is essential if we want to succeed.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council. i am well aware that your government will try to pass this debate off as yet another attempt to harass poland. it's not true. we love your people and we love your nation. we have done everything possible, as vice-president frans timmermans rightly pointed out, to keep the dialogue with the polish authorities open, and we continue to do so today, as timmermans said, ready for dialogue. but dialogue is a two-way street, and if you're deaf on one side, it's hard to have a dialogue. we are always open to comparison, as long as the principle on which our living together is based is not called into question. the first principle: freedom, democracy and the rule of law. the european union is not a restaurant, where you go in and serve à la carte, but a living democracy, a community of values to which all its members are bound. i would have liked to have discussed this morning how to defend the rights of polish citizens in the face of the consequences of brexit, how to prevent so many young poles from having to leave their country to go abroad, and instead we are all hostages of the polish government, which does not come to brussels to deal with the problems of its citizens and which continues to provoke us with a closed-minded attitude. i ask the polish authorities: you say you represent the majority of poland - you got the votes, yes of course - but your fellow citizens never gave you any mandate to attack the independence of the constitutional court, to reduce the autonomy of the judiciary, so why do you do this? the truth is that your attempts to undermine the independence of the judiciary are a weapon of mass distraction from the difficulties you have in government. you lied to your constituents and you don't want to confront the real issues. but behind your plans there is something else, something deeper. there is contempt for liberal democracy, hostility to human rights and constitutional rules, the cult of the law of the strongest, and seeing the streets of warsaw on saturday guarded by the squads of the extreme right reminded me of the darkest pages of european history. to all poles, to those who oppose this government today, but also to those who voted for it, to all poles, i say that we will not leave you alone. the socialist and democratic group and its polish delegation stand by the polish people. we are not against poland, we are against deviating from the linear path of the rule of law. we want this path to be corrected. we want poland to live fully as a central member of the european union. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. it is ridiculous to compare the situation in malta with that in poland and to compare the situation of the maltese prime minister, who has always shown his willingness to engage in a concrete dialogue with the european institutions, to be present in the european parliament and to correct the shortcomings and problems in malta, with the situation in poland. so let's not compare! this is another weapon to distract from real problems. to equate malta with poland is a false historical statement.
i would like to address my polish colleagues, and in particular the representatives of the ruling party. i would like them to understand that we are not punishing a member country, that we are respecting the multiple sovereignties that the union will increasingly have to be made up of. the reason why we are going to adopt a third resolution on poland is to recall together the reasons which unite us, the legal bases which all the member states have subscribed to. i mean rule of law in the deepest sense of the word. i would ask you to read recital e to the resolution. the rule of law is distinct from the rule by law. rule by law means government by law, where law is the act used by those who exercise power on the basis of a parliamentary majority. the rule of law is a notion that includes a substantive concept of law, such as a set of fundamental rights, the independence of the judiciary, the separation of powers, free expression, the rights of refugees and women. whoever wins the election obeys this set of rights, not grants them. once elected to this parliament, we all have the task of representing all the citizens of the union, without distinction of nationality or constituency, and at the same time the primary duty to ensure that the foundations of citizenship, fundamental rights and freedoms, are fully guaranteed. in asking for article 7 (1) to be activated, we are asking only for this commitment to be honoured and for us to take responsibility for continuing the open dialogue with the government of a member state. on the other hand, it is the only instrument that the treaty has given us as a parliament.
vice-president of the commission. first of all, allow me to say a few words in my own language, and i mean directly to mr annemans. i don't see any problem with him attacking me personally. i'm used to it. it doesn't affect me. but i cannot ignore the fact that he attacks the movement from which i come and accuses social democracy of collaborating with totalitarian regimes. social democrats were the first victims of the bolsheviks. social democrats were the first victims of the fascists. social democrats were the first victims of the nazis. they have always stood up to totalitarian regimes. i'm not gonna let that go. certainly not from the mouth of someone who might be able to dive into the history of his own movement before he dares to question the history of other political movements. mr president, we are talking today about the rule of law in poland. if you want to play football you abide by the rules of the game and you accept the fact that there is a referee who makes sure that those playing the game abide by the rules. if you join the european union, you do this as a sovereign decision. you sign and ratify a treaty. once you have signed and ratified a treaty, the rules of that treaty apply to you. then if you simply say "i am a sovereign nation, i don't care about the rules", it's like saying "i want to play football but i will determine for myself which rules i will apply and which rules i will not apply". then you cannot play football! the european union cannot function if member states start saying "we pick and choose which rules we have adhered to, are applicable to us, yes or no". i think this should be the starting point of our debate. in particular, in article 2 of the treaty, all member states have said very clearly that they will respect the rule of law. one of the fundamental elements of the rule of law is that you accept and maintain a separation of powers. an independent judiciary is essential in the rule of law. you can't pick and choose and use the argument that you have the majority to simply ignore the law. you can use that majority to change the law. you can use a majority to change the constitution if you have one, but you cannot simply say "i ignore it because i have a majority". you cannot use democracy against the rule of law and this is the argument that is often used in this debate. just imagine, i would say to those of the european conservatives and reformists group (ecr) who still remained in the room, just imagine the shoe were on the other foot, and in this parliament a majority would say, "hey, we have the majority, we don't care about the rules of procedure of parliament, we have the majority, we dictate what happens!" in what position would you then be? the rights you now claim for yourself as a majority might not be granted to you once you are no longer a majority. this is a fundamental problem for europe because, as some of you have said, once you have destroyed the independence of the judiciary, even if you lose an election, the new powers that be will have no other option but to try and reverse it and then it becomes a perpetual machine of not respecting the rule of law. this will never stay limited to one member state. if it happens in one member state it affects the union as a whole, and this should never be disregarded. had mr legutko still been here i would have said to him: you took seven minutes to say nothing, not a word, about the points i made about the independence of the judiciary. and i would also have said to him, after his vile attack on mr lewandowski, i would suggest to mr lewandowski to wear this as a badge of honor. - why? - why? because in the last two years, i have learned that if you have no arguments, if you have nothing to say, if you don't know how to react, you start with personal attacks. this is also my experience in the last two years. so every personal attack on me is proof that they have no arguments, that they don't know what to say and that they don't have a point at all. finally, you know the old joke about the "ghost rider" driving the wrong way on the motorway. somebody is sitting in his car listening to the radio, and on the radio the announcer says "be careful, on the a2 there's a ghost rider driving the other way" and the person sitting in the car says "one? i see hundreds! this is how i would react to mr. legutko. it is not the european commission only. it is not the european parliament only. it is organizations of european judges, it is the venice commission, it is the united nations. are all these people wrong? are all these people wrong? is the only one who is right the pis government in this? they will say yes! but if you want a real dialogue, at least have the courtesy to go into the points that are made. and a final remark about what guy verhofstadt and others said about last sunday. there's a very thin line between proud patriotism and terrible nationalism. it's a very thin line. i admire proud patriotism but i also believe that all those who believe in proud patriotism have a responsibility not to let that slide into terrible nationalism, because if we fall into the trap of nationalism we bring back to life the most terrible parts of european history, and some of this was seen on the streets of warsaw last sunday. i do applaud the fact that president duda clearly said that he distances himself from the expressions of extremism, or anti-semitism, and other expressions. (applause from the left)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me assure you once again that the estonian presidency, and the council as a whole, attach great importance to upholding the rule of law and fundamental values within the eu. this debate of today has once again reminded us that the eu is better at solving problems between its members than within the members. that is what the eu was created for. it is also worth recalling that the effectiveness of the eu rests on the delicate balance between respecting the sovereignty of its nation states and pooling the sovereignty to make those states stronger together. nevertheless, it is clear that all members have to comply with fundamental freedoms, democratic standards and the rule of law. i am not in a position to state more at this stage. i speak as the presidency of the council and therefore in the name of all its members. the council will, however, continue to follow this issue very closely. now a more personal remark: i have heard some comparisons between moscow and brussels during this debate. having lived myself – having had to live myself – in the soviet union, i find these comparisons utterly inappropriate. (applause)those who make these comparisons do not know either brussels or moscow, or do not want to know, or do not want to remember. (applause)
i have received two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 november 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the winter plan for asylum seekers.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last five years 700 000 alleged refugees have arrived in italy. more than half a million, or 80%, are illegal immigrants who are not fleeing any war. these false refugees take advantage of the european asylum system and the incompetent italian government, with the complicity of brussels, has been offering these immigrants free food, accommodation and services for years. all this has cost the italians 14 billion euros: a senseless folly, a shocking injustice. the italians are rightly angry at europe and at the letta, renzi and gentiloni governments, which have opened the doors of our country to the invasion of illegal immigrants. the situation is unsustainable and the reform of the dublin regulation is going in the wrong direction. clear and firm rules are needed, as in the united states and australia: stop legal immigration, forcible returns of all illegal immigrants, immediate closure of borders, life imprisonment for human traffickers. only the few who truly flee the war are welcome. everyone else is an illegal immigrant and should be deported immediately, no questions asked.
although words, let us say, a little heavy, perhaps it would be better not to use them in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my last speech gives me the opportunity to say that we must eliminate the talk of the winter emergency, the autumn emergency, the extreme heat in the summer, but make a structural change, especially with two issues. the various systems must be homologated throughout the territory of the member states and the quality of the standards must also be improved. many colleagues have spoken about reception, about qualifications, that is, about the possibilities we have to distinguish whether there are refugees, whether there are climate refugees, whether there are economic refugees. we are doing it, the commission is doing it and parliament is doing it, because we are revolutionizing, for example, dublin, and this must be known. so the appeal is not to undermine the work we are doing, which is being done by parliament, which is being done by the commission, and above all to tell the council to do it quickly and really not to undermine this revolution and the change we are making, to overcome the emergency, because the humanitarian crisis is not an emergency but a fact with which we have to live, and to increase bilateral agreements as well.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 12 000 people are stranded on the greek islands in completely inhuman conditions, which we witnessed in person last may, in overcrowded and inadequate camps where we are told of frequent abuses and cases of violence. the situation, with the arrival of cold weather, is bound to be even more catastrophic. last winter, in the moria camp on lesbos, six people died from the harsh temperatures, sleeping in snow-covered tents and not getting enough food. these deaths weigh heavily on the consciences of those who wanted the cynical agreement with turkey. the european union must ensure that there are decent reception conditions, and that is why european governments cannot leave greece alone; they must immediately expand and speed up relocations and family reunifications, and above all stop sending people back to greece under the hypocritical dublin rule of the first country of accession. it is time for the council to start seriously discussing the reform of the dublin regulation, perhaps taking as an example the strong and ambitious position expressed by the libe committee of this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year winter comes - and i think that is an indisputable fact - just as every year summer comes. now, we can't meet at the beginning of every season to discuss how to deal with the climate emergency of refugees. it is true, commissioner, that the technical and financial assistance provided by the commission to greece and italy has been important in many aspects of social security, but let us once and for all move beyond the emergency, otherwise we shall find ourselves debating the summer plan in a few months' time. let us discuss why, to date, more than 15 000 people are living in extreme conditions, because they have not been relocated. we ask the presidency how it intends to conduct the negotiations on the dublin regulation. we have no more contingency plans, we are working on ambitious legislative reforms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for your sensitivity and your commitment. however, once again we are talking about the potential tragedy that could affect tens of thousands of people with the arrival of the winter frost. the extreme seriousness of the situation and the current critical nature of asylum policies make it imperative to intervene by taking concrete and effective measures to ensure immediate access to shelter for all asylum seekers, and i am thinking in particular of women and children, the most vulnerable. the unsatisfactory figures for relocation and family reunification, which are still available today, demonstrate the need to provide support, not just economic support, to the member states of first arrival, and i am thinking for example of greece. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me take the opportunity to repeat that our commitment is to help all affected countries to be ready to respond in situations like this. with winter already on our doorstep, curbing efforts is not an option. funding at eu level is not an issue, and i know that we can count on your support for this. through our various funding instruments, we are already responding, and we will continue to do so for any additional needs. we cannot keep having these discussions over and over again. we need a structurally ingrained response system. this is why we need to speed up the reform of our common european asylum system, which includes better and more adequate reception conditions across the european union. the current system is not sustainable in the long run. we cannot continue to leave the responsibility for the vast majority of applicants, whether in law or practice, to only a few member states. we need to be ready for the future and to design a system that is effective but fair to all. this includes the dublin iv regulation, which ms in ‘t veld mentioned, and i could not agree more with her remarks. it is important that the european parliament sends a strong message on the need to revise the dublin regulation, and it is time for the council to advance it. many of you mentioned relocation. ninety per cent of the relocation requests submitted by italy and greece become effective relocations. this is a success. thanks to the cooperation of member states, eu agencies and international partners, we have relocated more than 30 000 people, reaching an average of 2 200 relocations a month. this is a success. through the implementation of the scheme, we have managed to build trust among member states, and i can tell you that this was not one of the easiest tasks i’ve had. for the future, our first priority is to relocate all those eligible under the two council decisions. the potential for solidarity with italy and greece has not been exhausted, and the european union should continue relocating. we continue to provide financial support to those member states sustaining their relocation efforts beyond the current schemes. i hope we will not have to repeat this discussion again in the future. we are all working to achieve the same goal: decent living conditions for all migrants immediately and better, sustainable migration management in the long term. now allow me to say some words in greek. κύριε πρόεδρε, όπως είπα και προηγουμένως, όλοι εργαζόμαστε και πρέπει να συνεργαζόμαστε για τον ίδιο σκοπό· για να ξεφύγουμε από την αντιμετώπιση μιας διαρκούς κρίσης και να αντιμετωπίσουμε το μεταναστευτικό με μεγαλύτερη επιτυχία σε ολόκληρη τη χώρα, ιδίως δε στα νησιά του αιγαίου, αλλά και σε ολόκληρη την ευρώπη, γιατί αυτό το φαινόμενο δεν θα σταματήσει -μην έχετε καμία αμφιβολία. επομένως, πρέπει να το αντιμετωπίσουμε με σύνεση, στρατηγική, συνεργασία και συντονισμό. πρώτα απ’ όλα, πρέπει να συνεχίσουμε να διεξάγουμε τον πόλεμο κατά των κυκλωμάτων των διακινητών, καταστρέφοντας το επιχειρηματικό τους μοντέλο και τιμωρώντας αυστηρά τους εγκληματίες αυτούς. όσο για τη δήλωση ευρωπαϊκής ένωσης-τουρκίας, θα ήθελα να σημειώσω ότι έχει συμβάλει ουσιαστικά και αποτελεσματικά σε αυτό. η δε πλήρης και συνεχιζόμενη εφαρμογή της θα συμβάλει ακόμα περισσότερο, όπως ακριβώς έχει συμφωνηθεί. πρέπει όλοι να συμβάλουμε ώστε οι ελληνικές αρχές να μπορέσουν να εντατικοποιήσουν την εφαρμογή της δήλωσης, επιταχύνοντας όλες τις προβλεπόμενες διαδικασίες. βέβαια, και συμφωνώ με αυτό που ελέχθη πρωτύτερα, οφείλουμε να στείλουμε ένα ξεκάθαρο μήνυμα ότι κανείς δεν πρέπει να διακινδυνεύει τη ζωή του στη θάλασσα για να φτάνει παράτυπα στην ευρώπη, διότι πολύ απλά θα επιστρέφεται στη χώρα του. αυτό, κυρίες και κύριοι συνάδελφοι, δεν σημαίνει ότι κλείνουμε τα μάτια στην ανθρώπινη τραγωδία που συντελείται στην ευρύτερη περιοχή της κεντρικής και της ανατολικής μεσογείου. αντίθετα, ενθαρρύνουμε, στηρίζουμε πολιτικά, αναλαμβάνουμε πρωτοβουλίες και χρηματοδοτούμε την επανεγκατάσταση των προσφύγων. ήδη, αξίζει να σημειώσετε ότι, από τις 50.000 καινούργιες θέσεις που ανακοινώσαμε, τα κράτη μέλη δήλωσαν ότι είναι έτοιμα να καλύψουν σχεδόν 35.000 από αυτές, και αναμένουμε ακόμα περισσότερες δεσμεύσεις. στο άμεσο μέλλον οφείλουμε να συνεργαστούμε, ώστε κανείς από τους ανθρώπους που προσωρινά φιλοξενούμε να μη βρεθεί ξανά απροστάτευτος σε καιρικές συνθήκες σαν κι αυτές που ζήσαμε πέρυσι. θα ήθελα να σημειώσω και κάτι άλλο· δεν υπάρχει ούτε περιθώριο αλλά ούτε είναι και ώρα για αλληλοκατηγορίες. είναι αλήθεια ότι η γεωγραφική θέση της ελλάδας την εξέθεσε σε μεγάλες προσφυγικές και μεταναστευτικές πιέσεις. αυτή είναι η πραγματικότητα και, όπως έχω πει κατ’ επανάληψη, στο ξεκίνημα αυτής της άνευ προηγουμένου κρίσης τόσο η ελλάδα όσο και ολόκληρη η ευρώπη βρέθηκαν απροετοίμαστες, θα έλεγα δε ότι βρέθηκαν και απροστάτευτες. η ευρώπη, όμως, δεν άφησε μόνη της την ελλάδα, όπως δεν άφησε μόνη της ούτε την ιταλία, από την πρώτη κιόλας στιγμή. η βοήθεια ήταν, είναι και θα συνεχίσει να είναι και στο μέλλον, ουσιαστική και συνεχής, σε μέσα, δυνατότητες και χρήματα. οι πιέσεις όμως δεν έχουν σταματήσει και δεν ξέρουμε και πότε θα σταματήσουν. οι δε απρόβλεπτες καιρικές μεταβολές και ο βαρύς χειμώνας που ενέσκηψε πέρυσι, ανέδειξαν μία δραματική πτυχή αυτού του θέματος. συνθήκες απαράδεκτες για την πολιτισμένη ευρώπη και εικόνες ντροπής που δεν πρέπει να επαναληφθούν. γι’ αυτό, σε συνεργασία με τις ελληνικές αρχές, λαμβάνονται πλέον όλα τα απαραίτητα μέτρα που προανέφερα, για να ολοκληρωθούν χωρίς περαιτέρω καθυστερήσεις οι προετοιμασίες. οφείλουμε να συνεχίσουμε την προετοιμασία για τον χειμώνα και προλαβαίνουμε να το κάνουμε. πρέπει δε να εντείνουμε τη συνεργασία σε όλα τα επίπεδα. ειδική, ωστόσο, αναφορά πρέπει να γίνει για την τοπική κοινωνία και τους πολίτες των νησιών που, με τη στάση τους, έστειλαν ένα μήνυμα ανθρωπιάς, ευαισθησίας και πολιτισμού σε ολόκληρο τον κόσμο. κυρίες και κύριοι, η ευρώπη της ευημερίας, του πολιτισμού και του ανθρωπισμού δεν είναι δυνατό να μην είναι σε θέση να προσφέρει προστασία σε 10.000 ανθρώπους. την ευθύνη γι’ αυτό τη μοιραζόμαστε όλοι: ευρωπαϊκοί θεσμοί, κράτη μέλη, κοινωνία των πολιτών. συλλογική λοιπόν η ευθύνη, συλλογική και η δουλειά που πρέπει να κάνουμε για να ανταποκριθούμε σε αυτό το ανθρωπιστικό μας καθήκον.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, the presidency, like all of us, is aware of the difficult situation that the refugees and migrants are currently facing and may face in some regions of europe. we are committed to do everything possible to improve the situation and to help frontline countries, both in the short and in the long term. as you heard from commissioner avramopoulos, the commission is indeed working with the member states concerned, and with other international actors, to be prepared in case the winter conditions worsen. there were references, some quite emotional, to the reform of the common european asylum system. first, i warn against reducing this issue – the whole reform – to just one piece of legislation, the dublin regulation, and within the regulation to just this one issue of relocation, when making these statements here. this reform consists of seven pieces of legislation, of which three are already in the trilogues with parliament. the work is ongoing, the presidency is well aware of the urgency and of the importance of this reform, in particular the dublin regulation. as for relocation from greece and helping greece, work has been done and the work is ongoing. the commissioner referred to some particularities there, such as the eligibility issue and the issue of returns, and these need to be taken into account as well. but again, in broader terms of helping greece at this moment, i want to refer once again to the thorough report by the commission on the ongoing work.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending the formal sitting) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. these days i am receiving emails from many groups and solidarity associations, asking for urgent action, to prevent more refugees from dying from the cold, as winter is coming again. last winter, six people died in moria seeking refuge and protection in europe. and yet the conditions in the camps of chios, samos, kos and lesbos are still beyond the limits of endurance. in recent days, the un high commissioner for refugees has also called on the greek government to quickly adapt the camps for refugees on the islands in preparation for winter, but the greek authorities do not seem to have any plan for dealing with the new emergency. in the face of this situation, europe has so far been a spectator without taking action, and winter has come again. i'm probably being rhetorical, but what's unpredictable about this situation? the only unpredictable thing, after tens of thousands of deaths, is that europe and its member states are waiting for tragedies to happen to grieve and i don't know what, to show a little common sense and love for their neighbours.
president kiska, it is a pleasure to have you here in the european parliament today. the european parliament is the heart of our democracy. your speech is important for us, to have your ideas, your proposals. we are in the middle of the debate on the future of the european union. to have the leaders in this parliament is important because we want to have very good debates, very good meetings with european leaders. i want to thank you once again for your visit here, and i now give you the floor. (applause)
president kiska, thank you very much for your speech. the debate on the future of the european union is open. thank you for your contribution.
mr batten, please.
(responding to an interruption from the floor) we have mr corbett first and then you. ok? silence, please. (applause)
let's move on to the vote. we don't need to debate what happened. i see what the problem is. mr collins, is there another problem?
i understand that very well, mr collins. we are not debating this issue. mr verhofstadt has my full confidence and the confidence of the vast majority of this parliament. we may or may not agree with what he says, but he has the confidence of the vast majority of parliament. ladies and gentlemen, let me be very clear. i have always respected all the opinions expressed in this house, but i cannot tolerate this house turning into a circus. so i will not tolerate any parties or aggressive behavior, is that clear?
i also join in greeting the representatives of the chinese national people's congress on the occasion of the 40th eu-china interparliamentary meeting.
i have received a request from the alde group to appoint a committee. that appointment will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. if no comments are submitted by the time the minutes are adopted, the appointment shall be deemed to be approved.
mr president, you must tell me what is on the agenda or i cannot give you the floor. what is the agenda? if we are to have another debate on poland, since we have already had one, there is no point in continuing. if there is an agenda, you tell me what it is and you intervene. otherwise we're wasting time and i don't think it's right to do this.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to stress the importance of this vote, which is of strategic importance for parliament and its trade policy. with this dossier we are going to create a new methodology which, through its application, will protect our european identity and will, above all, ensure that we do not lose thousands of jobs. i would like to thank all the colleagues and shadow rapporteurs who have worked with me on this, from all the political groups, and i would like to thank in particular mr tajani, president of parliament, who has followed the dossier impartially on behalf of parliament. thank you, everybody.
madam president, i supported these amendments to the european parliament's rules of procedure. i believe that there should be clear rules to combat dumping. i am a strong advocate of the widest possible free trade between countries. on the other hand, dumping practices cannot be respected or tolerated. it is good that this regulation has been passed today, because we are also responding to certain problems of the existing legislation and the conflict of the existing legislation with the current rules of the world trade organization. the important message from today is that the european parliament does not want to allow artificially subsidised goods to be imported into europe under any circumstances, and that some of the components of our european industry are thus threatened. as regards the czech republic, it should be noted that the steel industry in the czech republic in particular was threatened by dumped goods.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think it is an exaggeration to call daphne caruana galizia a martyr for freedom. as a tenacious and courageous journalist, she had been repeatedly threatened for her investigative work in malta on the panama papers and continued her work to defend freedom of expression enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, as well as the independence of the judiciary itself. now, after his assassination by a car bomb, we know that the maltese people themselves have taken to the streets to demand truth and justice. this is what we must continue to do after the media pluralism observatory has declared malta to be at high risk and a delegation from the european parliament has considered that the control and judicial bodies are being politicized. this report, which i support, expresses serious concern about the rule of law in malta and that is why, as a citizen, as a journalist and as a member of the european parliament, i call for an international investigation and for truth and justice to be done in this murder.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the centenary of the birth of a model of state which europe has left confined to the last century, a model which, from ideology, becomes imposition and oppression. yes, i'm talking about the totalitarianism. out of that october revolution came a dictatorship that had taken over a part of the world for much of the 20th century. the people in that dictatorship, like so many others born in those years, have always been part of the totalitarian rhetoric. the dictatorship of the people, the pride of the people, the honor of the people. yet, the people and oligarchs and dictatorships have never had anything in common, except the exploitation of the former for the benefit of the latter. history, mr president, is a warning to us all, in a time, our own, in which too often the people are again waved as a flag that can justify any abuse. no matter who uses it for their own benefit, the risk is always the same: the european union is not a party to the conflict.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, alexandra kollontaj was the first female minister in the world. she was a revolutionary, she brought the right to abortion and the right to divorce, the right of women to self-determination, into the constitution of '18. in "largo all'eros alato" kollontaj speaks of love as a feeling that is deeply social in its essence. well, the revolution, a hundred years ago, was an act of love, which i claim as a feminist and as a communist, against your shameful equating of communism and nazism under the label of totalitarianism. you are comparing a racial design of extermination to an idea of equality and freedom that is not buried under the tragedies and the collapse of real socialism. in 1917, not only did the bolshevik group storm the winter palace, but workers and peasants stormed into history. perhaps you would prefer to talk to the tsars, as today you prefer to talk to the king rather than the catalan people. yes, that day was a historical momentum towards a future humanity. a ghost is haunting europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two taboo subjects are rarely discussed, especially the first: the mysterious origins and shadowy financing of the bolshevik revolution. it is not a question of the european parliament, but of the european parliament. and then the other, rightly raised, creating an enormous amount of controversy, by the great ernest nolte here in the european parliament: the comparison and the consequentiality between soviet communism and national socialism in the light of genocides in the 20th century, namely the communist massacres and the gulag archipelago as the historical antecedent of auschwitz. these are serious matters, and we should think about them. you say we populists shouldn't talk, many say so. but when the soviet union existed, who but our own patriotic and nationalist movements spoke of these things, revealed, proclaimed who the real authors were responsible for the katy forces, which even at nuremberg were wrongly attributed not to the real soviet authors. and then honor putin, who refuses to celebrate the october revolution... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred years after the october revolution, the reasons for it are still all there: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union. as a european socialist i have embraced a political ideology which believes that it can combine civil and political freedoms with greater equality against the model of real socialism, but as an italian i know how much the history of the italian communist party in italy has been a history of struggle and progress, and i want to recall that it was precisely that italian communist party which elected altiero spinelli here as an independent. today the soviet union is no more and the western european welfare state model is no longer standing, as opposed to the soviet model. it is therefore essential today, as we shall try to do on thursday in gothenburg at the social pillar summit, to demonstrate our capacity as europeans to hold together the aspirations for substantial equality, which are always alive in people, with the desire to defend freedom from totalitarianism of any political colour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to greet commissioner bulc and commissioner šefčovič. we're finally starting to work on the mobility package. the time is right, road transport is, as has been said, the most widely used mode of transport in europe and action is needed to prevent situations leading to distortion of competition, but also to address environmental and road safety issues. we are well aware that road transport is plagued by serious problems, such as undeclared work and social dumping, and it is our task to provide the right solutions. in europe, the cost of labour varies from country to country. many companies take advantage of this to enter national markets at the expense of workers, their safety and with very serious repercussions on the national labour market. in italy, to take an example i know, under the present conditions many transport companies have to close because they cannot compete in labour costs, with many companies in other countries taking advantage of regulatory loopholes to offer the same work at cheaper costs. abuses and distortions must be corrected. i would also ask everyone to pay close attention to the definition of cabotage, because that is where the future of many small and medium-sized transport companies is at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commissioners. as has been said on many occasions, we are very much in favour of the ageing of the traditional transport system, which is still based on technology that is over a century old. however, no matter how much we try in terms of research and technological applications, we will not be able to make co2 emissions acceptable by using a combustion engine and going beyond euro 6. we have to be realistic. so we have to decarbonize the industry, we have to move away from fossil fuels, but we have to do it in a smart and thoughtful way, because the decisions we make today will have an impact on the industry for decades to come, with important social and economic consequences. we cannot afford to make radical changes, as has happened, for example, in the case of biofuels, and we must prevent unscrupulous companies from tampering with their products in order to make them falsely conform to existing directives, as in the case of volkswagen, which we unfortunately know. the transition to alternative propulsion systems for vehicles cannot be one-way, but must take account of all new technologies and develop them in an equivalent way. this means that it is good to push for electricity, but let's not forget about hydrogen and other types that are already widely tested, because until the source of electricity generation is totally sustainable, we cannot talk about true decarbonization. until the environmental cost of producing an electric vehicle over its entire life cycle is actually lower than that of a conventional vehicle, we cannot be satisfied and talk about a real energy transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, the european commission's new proposals to strengthen european leadership in the field of clean and sustainable vehicles are of vital importance to all citizens of the union. these proposals set new targets for the average co2 emissions of new cars and vans in europe. the proposals are ambitious but at the same time realistic and accelerate the transition to zero-emission vehicles. they will stimulate innovation in new technologies and business models, as well as the efficient use of all modes of transport of goods and people. i agree with the commission that there must be a clear change of pace and mindset in europe and that the 40% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030 must also be achieved mainly through transport. new types of non-fossil fuels and the use of cleanly produced electricity can make a difference. the future is not just to reduce car emissions but also to encourage the use of less polluting means of transport, to develop intermodality in transport and to push for digitalisation to become a tool that allows us to travel seamlessly with a single ticket. what is obvious is that the proposals put forward must also be supported by targeted financial instruments. let us not forget that this will not only improve mobility but also the health of all european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the entry into force of the paris agreement, the international community has committed itself to achieving a reduction in carbon emissions and to moving towards a world energy transition. this transition goes far beyond transport, agriculture, construction, waste management and emissions, as it should be seen as an additional element in our commitment to modernise the economy and to make it a so-called green economy. the proposals contained in this second 'mobility' package have three main objectives: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to achieve its objectives. this is a key point, because we have to pay close attention to the chinese development on this issue, which already in 2020 wants to be ready and first on the market from a renewable energy point of view and also from an all-electric mobility point of view. but we must also be able to reconcile the needs of the citizens. not all national infrastructures are ready to have truly green mobility, electric mobility and also with the use of renewable energies. that is why i am convinced that the 2025 and 2030 targets you have set for yourselves can and should be a good time limit for all member states to be involved. so absolutely a good luck charm because it's our future that needs to be more environmentally sustainable.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for italy. the 5 star whistleblowing bill has been passed. the fight against corruption will be given new impetus from today and whistleblowers and witnesses to wrongdoing in the public and private sectors will be protected. at european level, it is also thanks to the tireless work of the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, whom i would like to thank, that this fight is going on. i would also like to thank mrs mizzi. the report contains a clear recommendation on the protection of whistleblowers who play a crucial role in exposing cases of maladministration and makes a clear call for whistleblowing legislation at european level. we have a great relationship here. however, i would like to stress two points which i have wanted to express in the amendments we are voting on tomorrow. when we talk about access to documents and transparency, we must remember that these are the basic principles on which to build the house of institutions, a glass house. but today, as citizens' complaints and the ombudsman's inquiries show, opacity is the rule and transparency the exception. we must reverse this situation and make full and complete transparency the rule of the functioning of the institutions, of decision-making processes in trilogues, of information relating to infringement proceedings, of trade negotiations and so on, and only sensitive and privacy-protected data should be restricted and protected. finally, as regards the transparency register for monitoring lobbies, the commitment to improve it, as called for in the report, to make it mandatory and transparent for eu institutions and bodies, is good but not enough. legislation is needed, and therefore a regulation, to make the register legally binding not only for the institutions but also for the stakeholders. that, by the way, is exactly what the european ombudsman recommends. if we vote for our amendments tomorrow, we can make it fully reflected in the text of the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ombudsman is one of those figures who, like our committee, really brings citizens closer to the institutions, making them not distant, grey bureaucratic realities but communities of people working for the welfare and protection of every european citizen. the ombudsman calls for compliance with the rules, it is one of the tools that enable the institutions of the union to improve the quality of their services. one of the key elements of democracy is the principle of good administration enshrined in the charter of rights of the european union. in 2016 - i would like to recall these figures reported by our committee - over 15 700 citizens were assisted by the european ombudsman, 12 000 people obtained advice through the interactive guide on the website, over 1 200 cases of the ombudsman's offices providing information and reports which were treated as complaints. significant numbers such as the topics covered in the ombudsman's published policy initiatives. let us take a few examples: the need for greater transparency in controversial negotiations, such as ttip, the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the transparency of the asylum, migration and integration fund. i therefore welcome this report which acknowledges all this and recognizes the role and high value of the ombudsman, a role which we must safeguard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president timmermans, i would first like to thank mr mizzi for his excellent report on the main points of the ombudsman's work, and i would also like to thank mrs o'reilly for the presentation of the 2016 annual report. the report focuses on the different aspects of public administration, stressing that the work of public institutions must always be guided by high standards of fairness and transparency in decision-making processes, in the interests of citizens. the ombudsman's cooperation with parliament has been and is of fundamental importance in order to increase the transparency of our own work. the progress made by the european institutions through the ombudsman's recommendations is particularly valuable also because it is an important signal in terms of preventing and addressing maladministration. it is therefore necessary to continue along the lines set by the ombudsman, whose work is essential not only to bring justice to citizens who complain of maladministration, but also and above all to restore the rightful trust of all citizens in the european institutions.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank parliament for the interest it is taking, through this question and its resolution, in the new environmental implementation review initiative. i can confirm that this interest is fully shared by the council. in terms of addressing implementation gaps in eu environmental legislation and policy, this initiative has a high potential. in addition to contributing to the environment ministers’ input into the european semester, the environmental implementation review process is meant to become a distinct and consistent process. it would involve several important elements: the preparation of environmental implementation review country reports and bilateral discussions with the member states, as well as the identification of common issues and their discussion in the environmental council. on 28 february 2017, the environment council held its latest exchange of views on greening the european semester. the economic system depends largely on the availability and sustainable use of limited natural resources. keeping this in mind, greening the economy and advancing the transition towards a resource efficient circular economy becomes essential to secure future competitiveness and long-term sustainable and inclusive growth. in this context, ministers also discussed the commission’s communication on the eu environmental implementation review. they welcomed this initiative as a useful tool to help improve implementation of eu environmental policy and legislation at national level and contribute to the greening of the european semester. in doing this, they underlined the need for national findings to be based on sound scientific data. ministers also welcomed the opportunity for member states to engage in dialogue and cooperation with the commission and among themselves, peer to peer, with the aim of reflecting on their respective priorities, addressing common challenges and sharing best practices. as regards the specific questions that you have raised at this early stage of the environmental implementation review process, i would like to limit myself to the following comments. we agree with the identified root causes of the implementation gaps and we are willing to address them further. it is to be expected that the different strands of the implementation process of the environmental implementation review, and in particular the dialogue with the member states on the basis of the country reports, will allow us to carry out a structured dialogue in council. member states are generally responding positively to the environmental implementation review process. bilateral dialogues have already taken place in five countries since march this year. these countries are belgium, the czech republic, estonia, luxembourg and slovakia. i also encourage other countries to organise action-oriented country dialogues and to hold forward—looking debates on environmental challenges. i trust that these dialogues will be inclusive and that the relevant stakeholders get an opportunity to contribute as appropriate. the current environmental implementation review cycle is already very ambitious and covers a large number of complex and very significant areas. in terms of broadening the scope of the environmental implementation review to other policy areas in the future, we find it essential that environmental challenges are tackled in a comprehensive manner and that all relevant policies are taken into account. the real added value of the environmental implementation review will come from in—depth impartial analysis. however, if broadening the scope is considered, due attention should be given to avoiding a disproportionate administrative burden. as regards the involvement of the council – although i cannot speak on behalf of future presidencies – currently, the idea is to bring the structural problems and common challenges identified in the course of the two-year period to the attention of the council. the council would then discuss environmental implementation review-related issues at regular intervals in line with the cycle, also ensuring complementarity with the discussion on the greening of the european semester and the relevant post—2020 strategies.lastly, in many areas environmental policy is interlinked with other domains. in addressing the cross-cutting issues, we should avoid working in silos and ensure that all relevant parties are involved in discussions. the respective dialogues should not be held at council level only, but start from expert groups and other working formations. hence the effort of engaging colleagues from other policy areas is welcome at all levels in order to achieve a coordinated and informed outcome. i thank parliament once again for these questions.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to say how glad i am to take this point on behalf of commissioner vella. commissioner vella wishes to thank the author and all of the people involved in the interest in the environmental implementation review (eir) and for your support for this important initiative. the eir puts implementation in a broader context with a view to finding practical solutions by looking at integration with other sectors and by identifying possible root causes for implementation challenges. this helps to improve the knowledge and sharing of good practice. the main goal of the eir was to draw attention to the need for improved implementation in order to attain the european union’s environmental objectives. the environmental targets and deadlines which need to be achieved by the member states are included in the legal obligations set out in the environmental aquis and are being monitored per directive and regulation. the eir encourages cooperation, dialogue and the search for solutions involving a wide range of stakeholders at national level. it is not feasible, but neither is it the commission’s intention, to rely on a name-and-shame exercise. this could, at any rate, jeopardise the achievement of goals. the commission has included in the country reports both good practices and good examples, as well as implementation challenges. the data used in the country reports are comparable. the commission’s ongoing initiative in streamlining reporting requirements in eu environmental law is expected to improve the quality and completeness of the data significantly. the eir takes a holistic approach, reflecting the spirit of the sustainable development goals. and the commission is taking steps to ensure that the second review cycle will be even more comprehensive by including chemicals, industrial emissions and the implementation of climate change policies. the nexus with climate change and other policies will also be developed as much as possible. the commission encourages member states to organise national dialogues under the eir in a cross-sectoral approach. the first five countries’ dialogues succeeded in doing so, and further dialogues are being planned. the commission has also asked member states to involve all relevant stakeholders during their country dialogues. we firmly believe that discussions will result in tailored solutions and mount some pressure to fill in the implementation gaps that are identified in the eir reports. the eir inspires learning from good practice. on 7 september 2017, the commission launched a peer-to-peer tool with the committee of the regions. it is intended to support concretely the member states at all administrative levels to share experience and expertise. this will lead to a database of good practices. the eir has not changed the commission’s policy as regards infringements, and there is no formal relationship between the voluntary approach and the legal procedures. in most cases, the infringement procedures will run in parallel where necessary. however, if the eir succeeds over time in improving implementation, as is expected, fewer infringement procedures will be needed and, therefore, fewer resources will have to be spent on legal proceedings, and we should have enhanced environmental protection due to upstream and systematic solutions. i wish to conclude by thanking the author and all of the people that have been involved in drawing up this report.
the european union is leading the world in environmental protection, and so the regulations we have set for ourselves on air quality, water quality, waste management, and i could go on. but we must not only boast of having ambitious regulations, we must also be able to enforce them, which, unfortunately, is not always the case. this is essential not only for the union's credibility, but also for the protection of the environment and the health of our citizens, and also for the economic benefits. we see this very well, for example, with the circular economy impact assessment, the benefits in terms of employment and economic growth that effective and efficient waste management can bring. the commission has therefore put in place a tool to assess the performance of the member states in implementing environmental legislation. having a map allows us to understand how far reality is from the objectives set by law, the areas where we are still behind, why we are still behind, and then identify the causes, and what tools to put in place to achieve the objectives. you will understand that, first of all, data must be more comparable in order to facilitate the exchange of best practice, as we ask in the resolution. we must also have as accurate a picture as possible, including other elements in the evaluation. let's think about the energy efficiency resolution, the transport sector, climate change. i am glad to hear that there is already an opening, as the commissioner said, also because it is unthinkable today not to consider the impact of climate change. and now i turn to the council. this cannot be a mere exercise in style, but the member states must then make a concrete commitment to achieve the objectives, and we ask the council to make a concrete commitment to fully participate in the review and to take this instrument very seriously.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this resolution of parliament because we believe that the review of implementation is an essential tool for getting the most out of environmental policies in the european union, but also for defining and charting that path, those milestones that we need to reach the sustainable future in europe. however, we believe that all this can only happen if we really tackle the paradox of very strong european environmental legislation on the one hand and completely ineffective implementation on the other. then we need to do three things. first of all: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of sanctions which are really effective for those member states which fail to enforce the polluter pays principle. second thing: the infringement procedure mechanism is not functioning. they can't be the citizens who pay twice: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not damaged, and that the environment is not affected. they must pay the people responsible, who are very often the environment ministries of the individual member states, who are sitting in their chairs, although they are responsible. third thing: we must put an end to the triangle of hell in which the polluting industry also funds representatives in the european institutions and in local and regional authorities who then appoint the directors of the control institutions. if these three things are not done, europe will never have a sustainable future.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr lópez for the work he has presented. inequality: we start with numbers that should start to make us think, but more importantly, make us act. oxfam says that eight people in the world today own the wealth of the poorest half of the world's population. that means that in the hands of eight people in the world today, there is the same wealth as three and a half billion people have. that means inequality, it means that we've created a chasm that separates the very rich few from all the rest of the people who live in absolute poverty. so the question we have to ask ourselves is that it is time to stop talking, it is time to start with concrete, effective and immediate action. i'm sorry, commissioner hogan, but i have to tell you that we don't have time to see whether our plans to care for children living in absolute poverty are more or less effective. yesterday we should have applied it, yesterday we should have taken care of the children who live in absolute poverty, because the example of greece and the example of italy are before everyone's eyes. either we start today, yesterday, to take concrete action to solve this gap, to solve this social carnage with policies of redistribution of wealth, or we will have failed, or our presence here, our work here, our commitment here is totally, completely and absolutely useless and we should not even have the courage to present ourselves to our citizens and say that we are working for them if we cannot feed our children. as a parent, i find it despicable that this european union does not have the courage to close a gap that is undeniable. we need policies to redistribute wealth, to heal this absolute gap between the rich few and the millions of poor, we need a guaranteed minimum income to cure poverty, we need effective expansionary policies that create jobs and allow people to live in dignity. we must do so in accordance with our mandate, but also in accordance with the 500 million citizens who expect us to work concretely, effectively and decisively.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe, as it is still imagined, cannot but take on the most affected human capital, wounded by inequalities and hence imprisoned by its many poverty. so inequalities create poverty, and fighting inequalities means giving everyone a plurality of tools that are essential to defeating them. the basic choice is therefore to ensure that the rights are enforceable. it is time for politics to take on the full responsibility of rethinking its development model, placing the issue of the dignity of persons and the value of human capital at the centre, without delaying the easy reading that links, in a cause and effect relationship, the impoverishment of opportunities to the economic crisis. so this is the time to decide not to contract public spending, but to reorient it to guarantee rights, to fight inequalities, to combat poverty. this is the time that leads us to generate a new sense of community within an idea of social cohesion that links the public chain to the actors of the territory, to think about new welfare models within the workplace and in the places of life, to respond to the demand for accessibility to new lifestyles, care and prevention, at every age and in every corner of europe, to allow every child to be able to grow in the awareness of being able to compete as an adult in a scenario that we want more and more generous of opportunities for everyone, imagining that they can build their own life project through work, certainly equally paid, but of quality and safety. in short, the europe of development and sustainable and inclusive growth can only start from here, from the europe of opportunities for all and for all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in his excellent report mr lópez has rightly pointed out that the crisis presents us with two major blocks of issues in relation to inequality: the first is social, the second is economic. over the years, some european countries have countered the crisis with senseless austerity policies, reducing social protection, reducing the effect and the amount of welfare available, in the idea that the economy would be divided up in this way, making the cost of labour cheaper, while competition from weaker parts of the world's population has prevailed. on the other hand, old, but already ineffective, redistributive instruments have also been broken. the systematic scandals over taxation, which has remained largely intact as an element of negative pressure on the poorest part of the european population, the working and self-employed, and has allowed companies, on the other hand, to escape from obligations and loyalty to the states, have destroyed the elements of cohesion which also guaranteed an adequate competitive capacity for the economic system. when work becomes precarious and unprotected and individual and collective rights are not recognized, productivity inevitably suffers. so what we are called upon to do today is to try to put in place fair, just redistributive policies to protect the weakest and to fight poverty. for this reason, i believe that a minimum income is the right tool, it is a universal tool that gives everyone the same protection and the same opportunities. then we must improve working conditions, because better working conditions make people work more. today, however, we are faced with a world in which those who work are penalized and forced to undergo conditions that inevitably affect the quantity and quality of their work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i firmly believe that anyone who cares about the european union must insist that the priority is to reduce inequalities on the continent, not only inequalities between its countries, but also within them, starting from a basic concept: the european project and the political and economic integration of its member states and peoples must serve the objective of regaining sovereignty for decisions concerning the social and economic spheres. sovereignty that has been progressively eroded by the dynamics of uncontrolled globalisation and financial capitalism. the data clearly show that the crisis of recent years has had a dramatic effect on the growth of inequalities in their various forms: we have to look at the different types of people. the differences have increased more than proportionally for the weaker groups, and it is therefore imperative that the european union take charge of reviving a social agenda that can reverse this trend. in a few days' time, the heads of state and government will meet in gothenburg to conclude the agreement on the european pillar of social rights. we must be able to turn this solemn event into a real movement, capable of finally equipping the union with a social strategy adapted to the challenges of modernity. we are starting from concrete initiatives, not just from a list of principles. we are starting with the european institutions, applying a more extensive version of the quality framework for traineeships, including a guarantee of remuneration, and finally banning unpaid and low-quality traineeships in europe. i would also like to remind you that this parliament has proposed a framework directive on decent working conditions for all forms of employment. so let the european commission show us, also on this front, that it really wants a triple-a social europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are debating tonight, as has just been mentioned, should be the guiding principle behind all the work we do in this parliament. a parliament which, in my view, should put the fundamental rights of european citizens and the fight against poverty at the forefront of its initiative. unfortunately, we are faced with an unprecedented growth in economic, social and cultural inequalities, and this situation is at the root of the enormous difficulties and social malaise that european citizens are experiencing. it is enough to think that since 2005, income poverty has been steadily increasing and that, according to a report by oxfam, in 2015 there were 342 billionaires in europe and 123 million people, almost a quarter of the european population, at risk of poverty or social exclusion. regressive labour market reforms in several member states, including, alas, in my own country, have weakened workers' representation and bargaining power, leading to increasingly precarious working conditions and lower wages. social mobility has practically disappeared. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. that is why i believe it is imperative to address social spending, to address the problem of poverty through family support, to ensure universal access to free health care and to introduce a decent minimum income for all. equally vital is the refocusing of public policies to promote employment and investment in infrastructure, as well as improving the quality and efficiency of education systems and accessibility to public services.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of economic crisis, the fact that i have seen in my own group is that social inequalities threaten the future of the european project, erode its legitimacy and damage confidence in the european union as a motor of social progress. while brexit has opened a window of opportunity for europe, reducing inequalities must be a top policy priority, not only to tackle poverty or promote convergence, but also because it is the prerequisite for economic recovery, the creation of decent jobs, social cohesion and shared prosperity. equality and fairness are an integral part of european values. we need a genuine european pillar of social rights, which promotes upward convergence, and a deeper and fairer social dimension of the european union, economic and monetary, providing the citizens of the european union with the necessary legislative, institutional and financial instruments to ensure the social progress that must be the next stage in the process of european integration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, economic history teaches us that economic sanctions imposed by one country on another, or by a coalition of countries, as in the case of the european union, do not achieve their objectives in the vast majority of cases. but there is one person in the world, one person who is convinced of the contrary, and who declares that the sanctions have not harmed the countries of the european union. is this alice in wonderland? no, it is mrs mogherini who, by saying publicly that the sanctions have not harmed the european economy, is engaging in soviet 'disinformation'. this is unacceptable, since we all know the hard data that since the sanctions the european union has lost 44% of economic traffic to russia. we have damaged the european economy more than any other country, and mine is certainly not the last, since the italian manufacture has collapsed in exports to russia, there is incalculable damage. and if there were justice, if there was a possibility of making the idiots who took this decision pay for the damage, it would be very heavy, and god knows if one day we will not be able to make those responsible pay, that is to say you in the european commission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the import ban imposed by russia has deprived european fruit and vegetable producers of one of their main export markets and its extension until 31 december 2018 will cause further damage. for three years now, european union fruit and vegetable producers have been suffering significant losses, as they have no alternative outlets comparable to russia. i agree that the commission should promote studies on the effectiveness of the reorientation towards other markets and on the development of production, distribution and demand in the agricultural sector since the embargo began, but above all solutions that are of practical support to the sector must be found urgently, structural measures must be found. the fruit and vegetable sector should be supported by increasing the quantities eligible for aid under the new eu aid scheme, the level of compensatory aid for withdrawal from the market should be increased, giving priority to alternatives to free distribution, and, above all, it would be important to ensure that the deadlines for payments to farmers are shortened.
the agenda includes, for a joint debate, the following: - recommendation by charles tannock, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and new zealand, of the other part (15470/2016 - c8-0027/2017 - 2016/0366 ((nle)) (a8-0327/2017), and - report by charles tannock, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, with a proposal for a non-legislative resolution, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and new zealand, of the other part (2017/2050 ((ini)) (a8-033/2017).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur. the european parliament's recommendation to conclude a partnership agreement with new zealand was a positive one. new zealand, it was said, is one of our closest neighbours, sharing the same democratic values and principles, respect for human rights, and fundamental issues such as peace, security and the environment. a common culture and common sensibility, therefore, has made it possible to establish a close partnership with the european union and the member states, which has been embodied in common policy choices. i am referring to new zealand's contribution to un peacekeeping operations in bosnia, kosovo, sierra leone and afghanistan, to the training of iraqi security forces fighting daesh, to its role as co-sponsor of un security council resolutions on syria and the middle east peace process. the union's contribution to the implementation of the paris agreement is estimated at eur 5 billion. it is therefore good that this agreement has been concluded, which also includes the fight against terrorism, in particular commitments on the exchange of information on terrorist networks and groups, on methods of preventing, countering and combating terrorism, radicalisation and cybercrime, but also agreements on scientific, academic and technological cooperation. this is consistent with the opening of negotiations on the eu-new zealand free trade agreement, which must be conducted in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit, taking into account the sensitivity of certain agricultural and other products. a major agreement, a coherent policy framework for the future, within which relations and cooperation on a wide range of issues will be further developed over the years, in the interests of the citizens of the union and of new zealand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, new zealand is linked to the european union and its member states by a close and long-standing partnership and has already concluded bilateral free trade agreements with important countries such as australia, thailand and china. new zealand is a country with high standards of civilization that promotes sustainable production methods, particularly in the food sector, and has promoted global climate and emission mitigation agreements globally. but we must not make the same mistakes as in the past, because every free trade agreement involves some risk, especially for our agricultural and food production. the protection of european agri-food products, which are sensitive products and have already been put at risk by agreements such as ceta, must therefore be clarified as a matter of priority. new zealand is an important partner. the free trade agreement can bring benefits to both countries, but europe must be able to protect its assets and specificities with the utmost care.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everybody for the very constructive exchanges in relation to this agreement, and to thank all who spoke on the subject. i greatly appreciate the discussion and your interest in the european union-new zealand partnership agreement on relations and cooperation. the debate has shown very strong support for the strengthening of the european union and new zealand relationship through this agreement and, although we are geographically far from one another, dialogue and cooperation between the eu and new zealand have never been as close as they are today. this new agreement gives us the opportunity to consolidate our achievements and advance onto a range of issues relevant to the challenges of our time. many members have clearly expressed some concerns about the future negotiations in relation to a free-trade agreement. i can say that the commission and the negotiating mandate in relation to these issues are fully transparent. the two negotiating directives and the mandate in relation to these negotiations are on our website, and the sensitivities in relation to agriculture will be included. the commission has made it absolutely clear to our new zealand counterparts that agricultural sensitivities must be taken into account and that no full liberalisation can be contemplated for some sectors. the commission has proposed in the draft negotiating directives, which have already highlighted the agricultural sensitivities, to ensure that any future agreement will not cause major disruption in the european union, including in the outermost regions. the important thing is that our sensitivities on market access and geographical indications are acknowledged, and these are well known to new zealand and are being acknowledged by it in the scoping process. in relation to specific issues of trade and agriculture, and trade generally, the broader geopolitical considerations are important for a like-minded partner in the oceania-pacific region. new zealand, together with australia, is among the fastest-growing developed economies. there will be gains for the cars and car parts, machinery, chemicals and services sectors. the agricultural sector, as well, will benefit from improved market access for processed products, for cheeses and alcoholic beverages – particularly important for the agricultural sector with the acknowledgment of our geographical indications (gi) scheme and the recognition of our gi products such as wines, spirits and agri-food products. new zealand has recognised this at ministerial level and the scoping paper reflects the high level of ambition that we can pursue on geographical indications, which is providing a good starting point for the actual negotiations. can i also say to ms heubuch that we will include, as we do in every free-trade negotiating mandate, issues around environment, issues around animal welfare, animal health, and indeed plant health. all of these issues will be very important in terms of pursuing an ambitious outcome, which will ultimately have to be approved by this house, in relation to whether we have achieved enough or not. lastly, i would say to mr o’flynn that i look forward to meeting secretary of state fox in the marketplace, and he will see that size matters when it comes to trade in the european union where we have 450 million customers, while he will have about 70 million customers. i hope that we will be able to continue the high standards for food that we have become accustomed to in free-trade agreements in the european union, and we will not lower our standards to what has been advocated in the marketplace in the context of any free-trade agreement by secretary fox.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 november 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on seven motions for resolutions on freedom of expression in sudan, in particular the case of mohamed zine al-abidine (2017/2961 ((rsp)).
author. – mr president, it is sad that today we are again discussing sudan. not only because nothing has changed but especially because the situation is getting even worse, mainly in regard to freedom of expression. reporters without borders ranks sudan among the least free countries, at 174 out of 180 in the 2017 world press freedom index, due to the harassment of the media and confiscation of newspapers issue. in addition to this, a new concern arises in regard to the proposed press and printing act of 2017, which includes further controversial restrictions to online publication and provisions for the lengthier suspension of newspapers and journalists. it is true that today the spotlights are on mohamed zine al-abidine who is paying very dearly for the choice to have respected the fundamental right of freedom of expression. but let us not forget about all of those, also in europe, who lost even their lives simply because they shed some light on unacceptable situations. parliament just yesterday dedicated a room within these premises in honour of daphne caruana galizia, the maltese journalist brutally assassinated for speaking out the truth. parliament and all its members have to make a strong contribution so as to prevent such situations. this is why we will support this resolution by which we urge the sudanese government to stop its heinous practices against journalists and editors, in order to start to build a democratic environment where both the rule of law and human rights are respected. unfortunately, this is just one aspect of a more complex picture that includes several violations of human rights, ranging from the well-known situation in darfur to international criminal law concerns. i conclude by saying that, with great honour, i will take part next month in the sub—committee on human rights’ mission to sudan, so as hopefully to provide support, not only to mr mohamed zine al-abidine, but to all journalists who are victims of harassment, intimidation and attacks, and advocate freedom of online and offline expression.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, dictatorships do not like critical journalists. that is why we must continue to denounce their human rights violations. this is our duty also to the oppressed people of sudan. we condemn with this resolution the repeated violation of freedom of expression and of the press and the ill-treatment of the journalist mohamed zine al-abidine and his editor osman mirghani. these cases are the index of the backwardness of human rights in sudan. the autocratic regime of omar al-bashir is a freedom-threatening regime, using the police to carry out punitive expeditions against those who denounce corruption. sudan needs to feel that we are close to it in supporting the initiatives of denunciation that come from the sudanese people themselves. the sudanese authorities undertake to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms as enshrined in international law, including freedom of expression.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the european union's policy on the environment. the resolution also condemns the violence perpetrated by the islamic terrorists of al-shabab, whose vile attacks have claimed thousands of lives, and reiterates europe's closeness to this peace process. instead of giving in to fear, the somali people have reacted, showing their strength and ability to stand together. it is now up to us to stand by them, to support this population, exhausted by decades of conflict, in an autonomous path of peace, involving international and regional actors. because peace in somalia, madam president, commissioner, means peace and prosperity for all the countries of the horn of africa.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our thoughts are with the families and victims of the cowardly and vile terrorist attacks, of course, of an islamist origin. but now europe must act, europe must react. how can europe react? the european union must also take action to prevent the spread of terrorism, especially by stopping the financing of islamist terrorism, particularly the smuggling of migrants. europe must defend its borders if it is to defeat terrorism and cannot continue to pay for what is a criminal and insane welcome. if we were to reflect for a few seconds on the motives behind the recent islamist bombing in somalia, which killed 358 people, we would identify at least two motives. the first motive is the objective of introducing sharia law in somalia, but the second, deeper objective, of business and profit, is to create fear, to create destabilization of the somali people to push them on the criminal path of clandestine departures to europe. as many as 200,000 somalis have reached italy in the last five years. so a europe that defends its borders is a europe that wants to close the taps on terrorist financing once and for all, a europe that defends its borders is a europe that wants to say enough and defeat terrorism, a europe that defends its borders is a europe that wants to really eradicate the problem of terrorism in our country.
madam president, we are talking about madagascar and, as a result, we are seeing the worst signs of approximate democracy on the horizon. the pattern is now classic. the socio-political climate in madagascar is on the verge of catastrophe. the people are reduced to poverty and helplessly watch corruption spread. amnesty international echoed this last july, pointing to the malpractices that are plaguing the island from the lowest to the highest levels. the presidential election was scheduled for 2018, but now a constitutional revision has sprung up out of nowhere. it's sesame street to stall the election. those who say so are not wrong. the political agenda shows a dark picture: the opposition's silence, government interference in judicial proceedings, conditioning of the work of the ceni, excessive repression of activists, intimidation of journalists and punitive expedition of the police forces. our resolution expresses our disgust at these violations and, at the same time, our firm support for the malagasy people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madagascar is experiencing a profound economic and political crisis which is exacerbating longstanding problems which have not been resolved, first and foremost the situation of human rights, which is deteriorating dramatically. one of the most spectacular countries on the planet from an environmental point of view, but unable to exploit its resources because of continuous internal conflicts. in recent months, this instability has been compounded by the outbreak of a worrisome plague epidemic, which has already claimed 127 lives. this is a tragic situation, considering that 70% of the population still lives below the poverty line and that the health system has an average of only 3 beds per 10 000 people. madagascar remains one of the poorest nations in the world, and its pleas for help are often ignored by western countries, who have little interest in the future of this large island in the indian ocean. the european union must support the human rights defenders in the country and work to ensure that the forthcoming democratic elections take place in a climate of calm and respect for the constitutional order.
in writing. despite the positive atmosphere of the 2013 elections in madagascar, with a democratic and credible result, the political, social and economic situation in the country is still unstable. journalists and human rights defenders enjoy very little freedom and are often subject to intimidation by national authorities. i believe that the european union should support madagascar because it is investing in the provision and support of human rights defenders and to ensure that the 2018 elections are held in a climate of dialogue and credibility that can guarantee a fair and free electoral process.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ombudsman's report shows that he has been working with the european institutions to ensure that citizens' rights are respected, starting with the commitment to greater transparency and better access to documents. the need to apply stricter ethical standards to eu politicians and staff was emphasised, so as to ensure the integrity, discretion and full independence of the private sector, without dangerous interconnections or conflicts of interest. it is therefore essential that the ombudsman continue his work to ensure that the names of those officials or politicians who have taken advantage of the so-called revolving doors are published, moving quickly from an institutional role to a private-level management role or vice versa. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. although he had respected the eighteen-month time limit, the ombudsman pointed out that this time limit was too short and needed to be revised urgently in order to safeguard the duties of honesty and delicacy imposed by this function. another relevant case is the commission's attitude in its meetings with the tobacco lobbies, for which greater transparency was called for. the commission has not given any valid reasons for refusing to implement the recommendations and is therefore guilty of maladministration. the european central bank is also being monitored, and is required to publish certain parts of the single supervisory mechanism, as well as letters to banks and supervised institutions. this is the first break in the impenetrable wall of the ecb, which would allow citizens to look through the back door and await further bold initiatives to make european economic and banking structures more transparent. the citizens perceive the union as a distant and impenetrable structure. the ombudsman's efforts must continue with the same intensity and dispel the shadows that surround the european institutions. that is why we voted in favour.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the differences in income, employment and opportunities, which have been accentuated by the economic and financial crisis, are obvious and are affecting people's lives, because economic security is important for the fulfilment of citizens and their general well-being. today, simply having a job is not enough to be protected from poverty, because various atypical contract types, many unpaid internships, various forms of unconventional or undeclared employment, such as corporal slavery, impose economic conditions on the border, if not below, the poverty line. inequalities create discomfort, they bring discontent and anger, they create a humus that feeds instability and mistrust in the european union. yet they have been fed by the austerity recipe and the country-specific recommendations that europe has decided to impose on its citizens. unemployment, cuts in wages and pensions and welfare have undermined the lives of many people, and all this in the face of the priority of the well-being of the peoples recognized in the european treaties. the answers, therefore, should not be sought in specific recommendations or in the european semester, nor can we expect to cure a sick person with the same medicines that have made him agonizing. if we don't change the meter by which the tailor packs the suit, as long as everything is calibrated to the gross domestic product, we're going to be dealing with tight, stifling clothes. when we adopt parameters which take account of social progress and the real well-being of citizens, we will then be able to see measures to guarantee employment and fair wages. so welcome a genuine european pillar of social rights, welcome measures to balance work and private life, but other solutions proposed by the rapporteur are not appropriate and that is why we abstained.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that the establishment of the european union-china year of tourism is a great opportunity for our europe. in addition, 2018 will also be the european year of cultural heritage. the combination of these two important initiatives represents an opportunity for growth and wealth for europe in terms of economic development and employment, two priorities of the european union. despite the economic crisis, tourism is one of the fastest growing sectors in the world over the last decade and is europe's third largest economic activity after trade and construction. its impact on gross domestic product is 10%, if indirectly related activities are included. however, it must be borne in mind that this is a highly vulnerable sector and, above all, one which is constantly changing. as regards vulnerability, the demographic aspect needs to be taken into account, as tourists are older than in previous decades. in terms of development, however, we see the arrival of tourists from emerging countries such as china. tourism also plays a key role in boosting growth in many sectors such as transport. the new silk road, which links our continent to asia, is of vital importance in bringing different cultures closer together and facilitating cultural exchanges. europe is now the world's leading tourist destination for its natural, landscape and cultural beauties, but to maintain this primacy, appropriate development policies must be launched. the liberalisation of tourist visas is fundamental to this process. in addition, both europe and china need to focus on improving the tourist experience by promoting lesser-known and more sustainable destinations, thus avoiding the problem of mass tourism. good air links between the two continents are therefore vital, but especially internal ones. they will take tourists beyond the traditional destinations to explore unusual places. the cultural diversity, richness and history of the european union is not only found in european capitals, but in all destinations, even the most remote. getting to these locations, also thanks to digitisation, will help the territories to find economic sustainability, avoid depopulation and alleviate the influx of tourists in overcrowded destinations. the two initiatives taking place simultaneously in 2018 may lead to complications. i hope, therefore, that the commission will be able to find a common road map and create synergies. finally, i am very proud that both initiatives are taking place in my country, italy. the european year of cultural heritage will be inaugurated in milan and the year of tourism in venice.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it is my pleasure to attend the debate today on the eu budget for 2018. all the previous speakers, who have worked very hard on the budget, used the word satisfaction, and i am as well, on behalf of the council, very satisfied with the agreement reached by the conciliation committee in the early hours of 18 november. the discussions were long and at times difficult, not only between but also within the delegations of our institutions. we have been able to establish a realistic budget providing on the one hand the necessary appropriations to cover the needs expected in 2018, but leaving on the other hand adequate margins to cope with the contingencies in the course of next year. the presidency appreciated the constructive atmosphere during these negotiations. the agreement on the 2018 budget was reached thanks to the readiness for compromise on both sides of the table. during our various meetings in the course of this year, be it in trilogue or in conciliation format, as well as during many informal contacts, it became clear that parliament and the council share the same two main priorities for the financial year 2018: to tackle challenges related to migration and security and to boost innovation, growth and employment in europe. in the union budget for 2018 we have been able to translate these priorities into concrete figures. i would like to underline that, in addition to funding our shared objectives, the council had two other guiding principles. firstly, we considered it important to respect the agreements of the past. this means that agreements on the financing of the european fund for strategic investments and the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) were considered as the cornerstones for our discussions. secondly, 2018 could become a difficult year. one of the issues that thus needed to be addressed was how to deal with the continuous challenges in migration, where it is clear that europe will have to spend more. the package agreed by the conciliation committee includes two joint statements: the first one on the youth employment initiative and the second one on the management of payments in 2018. the council has also issued a statement recalling the importance of limiting the administrative burden by fully implementing our joint agreement on reducing over the 5-year period the number of staff in all institutions, bodies and agencies by 5%. after the successful outcome reached by the conciliation committee on 18 november the competitiveness council tomorrow will formally approve the joint text on behalf of the council. i am looking forward to parliament approving the joint text tomorrow as well. the general budget for the financial year 2018 will then be adopted within the deadline foreseen by the treaty. this would mean that, for the first time since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, three consecutive annual budgetary procedures will then have been completed successfully in conciliation without having recourse to a new draft budget to be submitted by the commission and, consequently, a second round of negotiations. just like mr mureşan and mr ashworth, i would like, as an estonian, to express my satisfaction about the fact that we have now the strategic communication capacity on steady european funding. so far, it has been funded by the member states individually, including my own. i would like to thank, not only on my behalf but on behalf of minister kivine, who could not be here due to sudden illness, the chair of parliament’s committee on budgets, mr jean arthuis and the rapporteurs mr siegfried mureşan, mr richard ashworth and mr jens geier for their constructive approach during the whole annual budgetary procedure, for their openness to compromise and for the positive atmosphere persisting among our institutions during the last weeks and months. i would also like to thank all other colleagues from parliament who, during long and stressful hours on the council’s premises, showed patience and a spirit of compromise. finally, a huge word of thanks to commissioner günther oettinger for facilitating our negotiations. without your support, commissioner, it would have been far more difficult to reach a balanced and timely agreement.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fourth financial year of the seven-year financial framework. we have traditional tasks which we carry out year after year: cohesion policy, infrastructure support or the two pillars of agricultural policy. and we have tasks ahead of us in the next year that are escalating tasks that were not fully predictable in 2013: migration, the refugee crisis, urgently needed assistance to refugees, including outside the european territory, border protection, border control or counterterrorism. i am grateful to parliament and the council that the mid-term review has enabled us to adjust the budgetary framework here and has also given us more flexibility, flexibility between financial years and between chapters within a financial year itself. it is only in this way that we have been able to reach agreement between the council and parliament, between the groups in the parliament's committee on budgets. it is the only way to refocus and finance and implement existing programmes over the next year without damaging them. we agreed in principle that growth and employment, security, security and migration were keywords in the european budget strategy. it was difficult, however, because, on the one hand, parliament did not just ask for the commission's proposals to be reinstated, but also proposed additional money, and, on the other hand, the council made a perfectly understandable priority of not only maintaining the margins of manoeuvre as in the current year, but of increasing them, either to meet financially the unforeseen events that could occur next year - disasters, earthquakes, other accidents which require solidarity from the member states alone - or to finance what is probably foreseeable but not yet budgetary, such as a second turkey-eu package for the creation of human dignity for refugees who have to live on turkish territory for a while. in this complex initial situation, the commission is also grateful for the constructive approach of the council presidencies. i would like to thank mr kivine and his whole team, your team, for their constructive leadership, and i would also like to thank all the members, particularly the rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee on budgets. the fact that we took this decision in a timely manner without delay at the first attempt shows the european union's ability to act even in a difficult financial, economic and political environment. the budgetary framework adopted in december 2013 has also proven to be tight, with little capacity to meet all meaningful tasks and expenditure within the ceilings year after year. i am grateful that in heading 1a the capacity for action has been strengthened for research and innovation, for erasmus and student and youth exchanges, for the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises. i am grateful that we have increased the youth employment initiative - and we have increased it moderately - and i give you my word that if, in the course of the year, it should turn out that the funds we have allocated for financing projects, for jobs, for training for young people, are not sufficient, if the outflow of funds should be greater than expected, then we will add the corresponding funds by means of amendments and propose an increase in funds to your two committees. we have not strengthened all agencies, but some agencies along the work offensive that is to be expected. in short, i am now confident that the budget will meet the challenges and expectations of our citizens for the coming year, research, innovation, infrastructure, traditional tasks and rapid response to new challenges, both politically and financially. that is why i am asking parliament and the council to approve it. i believe that in the limited scope of our financial framework, a better budgetary structure for 2018 would be difficult to achieve. that is why we fully support what has been worked out between the council and parliament for us today and for the council in the coming days. thank you very much.
i would like to thank, in a non-formal but sincere way, at the end of this work, also publicly, having already done it privately, president arthuis, rapporteur mureşan and commissioner oettinger for the work they have done in the long hours of the conciliation. i would like to thank them for their work, for the work they have done during the conciliation phase, if we have overcome certain principles, as president arthuis said, and have made some achievements, including economic ones, as the rapporteur, mr mureşan, and commissioner oettinger have pointed out. but their hard work, their commitment and so on cannot fully satisfy me and the group i have the honour to represent here. the problems are there, they are still ahead of us all and they are of three orders of magnitude. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. in general, because we have been following a ritual for years now which is essentially empty, where we wait for the 21 days of conciliation, we wait for the final hours to try to reach a result and an agreement which must necessarily be a take-it-or-leave-it, and this can no longer be the case. the debate that took place, although our rapporteur, the president and the commissioner tried to put it back on the right track, was a discussion that the council wanted to have and not to the detriment of the estonian presidency, to which i also owe my thanks, and which was all about the financial aspects of the budget, whereas we needed to give political answers to the demands of the citizens of europe. we have already had a lot of discussions on this subject and a lot has been said, but i think that not all the answers that should have been given have been given, that they were not the ones that the european parliament was asking for, madam president, they were not the ones that we were asking for as parliamentarians, but only those that the european citizens were expecting from this european union. we had to do and could have done much more on the issues of immigration and the reception of refugees. i believe that this debate, madam president, has shown that if there is a weak link in this european union, it is in the council, not in parliament or the commission. in a council which, faced with the demands of the citizens, instead of looking at them, turns its head the other way and tries to solve only the financial aspects. we need to respond today and in the future to the political, economic and social questions that citizens put to us. that is why we cannot vote for the budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, three very quick points on this agreement. one is a general and political point concerning turkey. finally, although with little courage in terms of numbers, it was decided to cut the funds. a thought on this: i have been asking the committee on budgets for four years to intervene on the pre-accession funds for turkey, and i have always been told that this was a problem, because technically it could not be done, there were regulations, and so on. this approach and these cuts show that when there is the political will, especially from the big groups, there are no rules to prevent cuts, but they do happen. when there is the political will, unfair expenditure is cut. i hope that in the coming months and budgets, action will be taken on this subject by means of further cuts in this type of funding. the last point, which shocks me, is about russian propaganda: one million euros to counter fake news and russian propaganda. so my point is about the limitations of freedom: who will decide what is true and what is false, and according to what criteria. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. this is exactly the point i was trying to make, namely who will decide what is true and what is false, who will decide that information coming from outside the european union is propaganda, or whether there will be a body that will check for example the information material that the union distributes in schools, showing these institutions as perfect, without any problems. that's the point. who decides what's true and what's false. this is very dangerous. the european union spends many millions of euros every year on information that is not verified by anyone. so it seems like an unequal treatment.
in writing. the budget is the most important political instrument we have in our hands. it highlights the seriousness of the action we intend to take to tackle the problems. there is no doubt that immigration and work are the priorities on which europe is playing a good part of its future, yet the council does not seem to have understood this, as in the trilogue phase it negotiated to lower commitments - supported by this parliament - for the youth employment initiative, for the horizon2020, cosme and erasmus+ programmes, as well as those for the asylum, migration and integration fund and for easo, the asylum support office. we must think differently about these issues, outside the logic of the crisis, and provide sufficient resources to plan structured interventions. it is also difficult to swallow the lack of emphasis on the europe for citizens programme, one of the main instruments for bringing citizens closer to the european union. i think that a satisfactory agreement has been reached on the other budget lines, but i do not think that the overall commitment made by the european union fully corresponds to the expectations and needs of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy union is the flagship project of the juncker commission and perhaps of the entire legislature, and yet the risk that it will not be fully realised is very high. the third annual report on the subject gives encouraging data: the european union is transforming into a low-carbon society, with record levels of renewable energy, at rapidly decreasing costs, but europe's energy infrastructure is not developing in the same direction and at the same speed to support this energy transition. the european union is called upon to modernise an obsolete energy infrastructure, to fully integrate its energy markets and to ensure the coordination of national energy prices. the energy union has the dual objective of ensuring energy security and combating climate change, while providing secure and sustainable energy at affordable prices and new jobs in the green economy. any individualistic behaviour on the part of the member states distances us from these aims and is a blow to the ambitions of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to a report by the commission, europe is moving from an energy system based on fossil fuels to one based on carbon emissions, digitalised and consumer-centred. it is a good declaration of intent, but it is not so linear in reality, because europe continues to support oil, coal and gas. the eib operations supporting them, together with the generous subsidies from some states, are in total contradiction to the european union's commitments on clean energy. there are no strong, high binding targets and no measures that require a real transition, while there is still a strong focus on, for example, gas. it is enough to think of tap, this pharaonic, harmful work, and how it has come to the militarization of the territory in order to impose it on the citizens. how can you think of making change if you're clutching at your fingertips a fossil fuel? question to the commissioner: why is tap not included in the amendment of the gas directive, why is it not required to respect the principle of transparency, the rules of the internal market and the principle of separation of ownership?
in writing. global geopolitical events, global competition for energy and the impact of climate change are triggering a rethinking of the eu's energy and climate strategy. the challenges we face are unprecedented: increasing dependence on energy imports, scarce energy resources and the need to mitigate climate change, all in a context of limited financial resources. the third state of the energy union report shows that progress has been made towards the eu 2020 targets for emission reductions, renewable energy and energy efficiency. the time has now come to put into practice the action required by the paris agreement and to exploit the full potential of technological innovation in a truly european dimension. to do this, we must address the persistent obstacles to real market integration, uncoordinated national policies and a certain lack of a common position vis-à-vis non-eu countries. our market should be in line with recent transformations, such as the increased presence of renewable sources with market-driven remuneration; the further integration of national markets through the development of interconnections; the development of smart grids and new decentralised generation technologies.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i express my solidarity and that of the entire delegation of the five star movement, as well as my sympathy, in the proper greek sense of the term, to the people of attica for the very serious loss of life and the serious damage caused by the floods. as italians we are well aware of the pain and the sense of helplessness and anger that such situations cause. that said, we are co-legislators, we have a duty and a responsibility to act. the primary objective is to provide relief to the affected populations as quickly and effectively as possible. the solidarity fund must therefore be revised, the maximum advance payment currently set at eur 30 million increased, the total fixed allocation increased to eur 500 million , but above all, for the next regulation on cohesion policy, rules are essential to enable rapid reprogramming, unbundled from thematic concentration, and with 100% funding from the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we are all united today in expressing our deep sorrow for the victims and their families, because a part of greece - we have heard and seen - has been hit hard and gravely. loss of life still the balance is probably not complete , houses destroyed and thousands of people evacuated. people living in those areas are still struggling with the dramatic consequences of this natural disaster that has struck them. civil defense has doubled down on the flood, talking about a flood that may be unprecedented. it is good then to remember, as the commissioner has done, that solidarity is at the very heart of the european union project, but this solidarity must be fast, it must go fast and reach the people quickly. we must send a strong signal and help this population that is so badly wounded. this fund must be mobilised. i think that mr kefalogiannis has made very clear proposals, proposals which are very acceptable, and so has the commissioner, whom i thank for his words. we cannot be held back by bureaucracy, but let us make it our primary objective. it's not about blaming. there is climate change, things have changed, we must secure our territories, we must equip ourselves with other instruments, we must allow more investment. the resilience of our territories must be a primary and fundamental objective. we shall thus be showing true solidarity with all the european citizens who expect this of us.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are going to vote tomorrow on another accounting rule which will have a serious impact on the european credit market and, above all, on the systems most oriented towards this credit-related process. i see no action by the regulators, by the european central bank, by the commission, to stem what is the financial problem, and in the asset quality review and stress test of the european central bank there is no mention of the derivatives problem, while instead the focus continues to be on the credit problem and credit deterioration. now, to go and ask for capital on what may be loans that will show signs of deterioration in the future is obviously a sign of too strong a grip by the institutions on the credit system, again, doing nothing for the derivatives and financial markets. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this text we have reached a political agreement to avoid a significant increase in the level of budgetary provisions due to the new approach to depreciation provided for in ifrs 9. in particular, we have achieved good results with regard to the so-called phasing-in. we have avoided the sudden increase in provisions for expected credit losses and the consequent reduction in the capital ratios of banks, especially small banks, and we have envisaged that these measures could be adopted with transitional provisions to prevent any unjustified impact on the system. moreover, such a transitional period should also provide an appropriate measure to avoid any procyclicality effects. finally, the text agreed by parliament and the council is appropriate to minimise the disadvantages for all those institutions using the standardised method compared to institutions using internal models. this is therefore an important measure to support, above all, the small banks, which are the main actors in investment in the real economy, and the small and mediumsized enterprises of our continent, which would have had greater difficulties in adopting these measures without these transitional provisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid a new crisis it is essential to reduce risks within the banking union and this is a precondition for the reform of the euro area. the introduction of the new international accounting standards ifrs 9 will bring major changes for banks, in particular on the crucial issue of credit risk and provisions. the new scenario will require increased interaction between risk management structures and administrative structures, and will imply the need for managerial choices and estimates, the desirability of a conscious attitude also on the side of credit demand and the consequent attention to customer information. this is therefore a major challenge for the banking sector, also in view of the risks in terms of future profitability and volatility. transitional provisions are therefore essential, especially for small banks, to prevent any undue impact of the introduction of ifrs 9 on the regulatory capital of banks in the european union, for example by allowing them to add to their core capital a part of the provisions for expected credit losses.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some concerns, and indeed considerable ones, arise that this measure, in fact, objectively dismantles the instrument created in 2014 for stability aimed at combating drug trafficking, demining, supporting displaced people, crisis management, rehabilitation and reconstruction of war theatres. that was the ratio of the old provision. now you want to change it structurally, to do what? financing the military of the partner countries, that is to say equipping the security forces of these countries, because without this intervention it would be difficult to achieve concrete, lasting and constant results in terms of training for the benefit of these armies. the reason for this is, i think, to be found in a passage of the resolution, which says that the economic effort to support the armies must be strengthened, because we are faced with a growing commitment from russia, china and turkey. why is it not made clear that this is a different matter from the provision being emptied? because you don't have the courage to speak out about these things. so enough of this hypocrisy.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in yemen a child dies every ten minutes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will do its utmost to ensure that the council's proposals are implemented. yes, you little shit. the blockade imposed by riyadh on the country's ports and airports is so petty, because its atrocious consequences, as always, are paid for by civilians. every day, families have to choose between buying clean water or buying bread, because they can't afford both, not anymore. i strongly condemn the houthi rebel missile launch, but i also stress that the usual hypocritical asymmetry is in plain sight: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. my country, italy, is unfortunately on the list of merchants of death. the pictures of prime minister gentiloni in riyadh are all too clear proof of his commitment to supporting this bloody business, in the face of the common position on arms exports, which has now been reduced to a farce. our member states are complicit, that is the truth, and for the umpteenth time i call on the high representative to propose and demand an immediate arms embargo on riyadh. it is not just our call, it is the desperate call of the yemeni people, as a diabolical negotiation standoff consumes, while their children, their children, continue to die, one every ten minutes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this debate brings us to the subject of yemen and highlights several situations which the commissioner has mentioned here: the humanitarian crisis, the worst in recent times, the security crisis, the conflict that leads to a food emergency. i would remind you that yemen is one of the four countries that are experiencing famine and hunger. i would like to make a further point, which you have made, commissioner, that we have highlighted the human rights situation, and respect for them must remain at the heart of our concerns. first of all, i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims of the conflict which continues to cause death and desolation in yemen. the saudi arabian grip and role in yemen is well known, but we know that, as a result of this conflict, we have a yemeni population with significant loss of life, as well as a situation of extreme suffering for those who survive, especially women and children. we have had the opportunity to denounce the fact that a large section of the population cannot even access humanitarian aid, even if only to obtain basic necessities. this situation has already attracted the attention of the european union and the commissioner has in fact reminded us that the european union is the leading donor in terms of humanitarian aid and, above all, thank you for supporting the monitoring of human rights violations. we have had the attention of the united nations, the arab league and also several international organizations. the united nations has recommended that every effort be made to restart negotiations, because only negotiations can guarantee a lasting solution to the conflict and lead to peace. we need a dialogue between the various parties involved, leading to an inclusive political solution, involving all the actors in the middle east, including yemen itself. in addition to the yemeni population trapped in the civil war, i would also like to highlight the plight of the yemeni refugees in djibouti. we are talking about figures of over 4 000 people, in a small country like djibouti which already hosts 20 000. i therefore call for increased humanitarian aid to the refugees in yemen and for more measures to strengthen their security. finally, i call on the united nations and the european union to also step up the resettlement programme for these people - asylum seekers and refugees - also in other, more peaceful contexts, in order to improve their situation.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a global corporate court, with ttip, ceta and tisa i thought i had seen them all, but you have really outdone yourselves here. here's what we all need: the european parliament has already proposed a global court where big investors can sue any government in the world to assert the rights of big business all over the world, and therefore in europe, and to make us citizens understand who is really in charge. your proposal not only legitimizes the abuses associated with isds, but multiplies them a thousandfold, because it creates a permanent tribunal without any clear law to apply. seventy years of international trade have not yet given us a unified interpretation of investor rights, but one thing is certain: it is for parliaments to define these rights, not for supreme courts. the european parliament has already said that it is not possible to have a single court for the whole of europe, but that it is possible to have a single court for the whole of europe, and that is the case in the european union. what about the enormous discrimination whereby only foreign investors will be entitled to this special and faster justice, while national companies will still have to be content with what you yourselves consider to be slow justice. it's not like it's an investor's court. what we need, commissioner, is an international tribunal for the crimes committed by many multinationals against the citizens of the world: the murder, the land grabbing, the contamination, the pollution. but you cannot clearly propose that because that would be true justice and that is not what you are interested in.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago il sole 24 ore published the new ranking of italian cities for the quality of life. the survey, which measured wealth, consumption, employment, the environment, services, demography, justice, security and culture, highlights a widening gap between the south and the north, with many southern cities ranking last. despite this progress, as the latest svimez report also shows, southern italy still falls short of the standards of other regions in europe. the employment rate is still the lowest in europe and the social emergencies are many and difficult to overcome. the citizens of the south expect answers which must also come from the european institutions, for example by avoiding questioning the post-2020 cohesion policies, which are fundamental for the revival of the regions whose development is lagging behind. however, let me say that the quality of life cannot be contained in statistics alone. if that were the case, we would have long since lost that smile and that welcome for which we are known in the world.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this measure has once again missed an opportunity to correct, at least in a significant way, some of the distortions of the previous regulation, namely the brrd and the bail-in, and above all to correct, in my view, one of the biggest errors of the brrd and the bail-in, namely its retroactivity. i would have preferred the new instrument, which in this case is called the senior non-preferred bond, to be a new issue instrument for all the banks, so as to create a capital buffer to absorb losses, large enough to, in fact, exclude from bail-in, in a significant way, the whole mass of senior debt issued before the entry into force of the brrd and which unfortunately ended up in the hands of savers who in some cases had to suffer huge losses. it has been decided to take a different approach which i believe will lead to negative results in the future. calling a product senior that is not senior in fact risks creating distortions in the sale of these products to savers or in the packaging of these products into financial instruments that end up in the hands of people who fail to properly consider the risk. what is being done with the bail-in and brrd legislation, unfortunately, is not going to protect the savers and it is not going to protect the taxpayers either.
in writing. the current european banking resolution system is based on the perverse mechanism of bail-in and, unless banking separation is first achieved, the only reform capable of introducing a credible and concrete alternative to bail-out and bail-in on citizens' savings, we will not support any other changes, which in fact would sound like a legitimization of the status quo. the revision under discussion also has critical aspects. in view of the introduction of a new class of debt securities that will be among the first to absorb losses in the event of bail-in, no substantial and concrete guarantee is provided to protect retail customers, nor are there any transparency requirements that clearly indicate the higher riskiness of this class of instruments.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs stevens for her work, which is certainly very far-sighted and very ambitious. unfortunately, this ambition, which we set out in writing as the disability strategy must become universally conclusive, very often clashes with the realities of many member states, my own in particular, where the concept of accessibility is still a distant chimera. in schools, architectural barriers are unfortunately the condition that prevents many children from entering their classrooms and sharing with their peers the moment of study and also the extracurricular moments. professional figures who can accompany children, for example in extracurricular activities, are not regulated today and very often are not professionally adapted to the needs of children with disabilities. access to employment and the ugly, obscene situation in which many disabled workers find themselves, suffering discrimination and unfair dismissals, are unfortunately still an objective fact, not to mention the concept of deinstitutionalization which in my country today seems not only a chimera but something completely unknown, namely the possibility of being able to decide how to live with one's disability. this unfortunately simply shows us that we are not yet able to think of an inclusive society, where disability is simply a common and universally accepted condition, seen as a resource and as a wealth. i hope that the necessary efforts will be made to fill these gaps. thank you, helga, and thank you all.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been done in recent years and we must thank the many associations which have devoted themselves to this subject. but unfortunately, much remains to be done. i am telling you this by taking as a basis a story told by a friend last week, about a boy of fourteen years, named marcos, who has the desire to continue his higher education, but who has difficulty today in having public transportation. marcos is legless, he is armless, and today he lives in the big city of milan, but he has the desire to study in a neighboring municipality and, alas, the municipality of milan, the big city of milan, does not provide him with the necessary transportation. so this house has a civil and moral duty to civilize administrators like those in the greater milan who allow themselves to be distracted from these needs of the citizens. it is also the duty of this house to find more resources to be put into the field of disability and it is the duty of this house to remove the stupidity pact for the costs incurred by disabled people. we must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, whether the deficit or the dignity of a disabled person is more important. we must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, whether we should be more careful about budgetary constraints or about the dignity of people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must strengthen its role as a promoter of human rights. we must be able to expand in practice the safeguards and guarantees which protect our citizens in order to give our community project a full sense of purpose. the report on the implementation of the european disability strategy does just that. the broad support for mrs stevens' work in the committee on employment and social affairs shows the commitment of all of us in the european parliament. this report, drawn up in close cooperation with representative organisations of people with disabilities, sets out the objectives and sets out concrete and sustainable guidelines for a future europe that is accessible, inclusive and cohesive, in which people with disabilities, the elderly and people with temporary functional limitations are also enabled to participate in the social, economic and political life of the community in an active and independent way. we can and must do more, starting with strengthening inclusive social protection systems, measures to support employment in the labour market, expansion of the right to health, inclusiveness in european programmes such as erasmus plus and the youth guarantee. the european accessibility act is an important first step and we must defend it. the role of local authorities in implementing these policies is also fundamental, and i would like to welcome to the gallery some mayors from my country, italy, piedmont, as their role is fundamental in this. with less than a week to go until the world day of persons with disabilities, we are reiterating today that a europe fit for everyone is a europe where everyone can be better off.
mr president, congratulations also for the italian language, so i thank you twice, and i also thank the commissioner with whom we have always worked very well. ladies and gentlemen, one of the questions i would ask myself is whether europe is a community that can really be described as civil, whether it is enough to talk about freedom of speech, movement, expression and vote, and whether this is just the whole concept of civilization. i am also here today to thank the mayors who are always close, in particular, to citizens in difficulty and we have here in plenary the national association of small municipalities, which sometimes have very few resources to be able to help those who are really in difficulty, to remove all the architectural barriers but also to give them a helping hand. let me conclude by remembering a girl, an italian girl named ilaria bidini, who was bullied because of her disability. this girl has been awarded the title of knight of the italian republic for her courage. she's a girl who has reacted to the shame, i have to say, and the indecency of the comments, the accusations, the threats and the insults of young people, but not just young people, for being disabled. because of her great strength, i can now say "je suis ilaria", because she is an example of how to react. happiness has no architectural barriers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the report we are discussing today highlights the many critical issues which still today stand in the way of the full and equal participation of disabled people in modern society and in the world of work. i thank mrs stevens for her work and i appreciate very much that she has included in the report specific provisions for the protection of disabled children, who in fact are often excluded from the education system because of legal and organisational obstacles. i believe it is of paramount importance that children and young people with disabilities receive not only quality education and vocational training but also all the necessary support from the institutions to promote their employability. in this respect, i believe that the european institutions have a duty to ensure that programmes for young people, including erasmus and the youth guarantee, are fully accessible to all disabled children and constitute an essential tool for their participation and integration. the union needs to send a strong signal to all member states on solidarity and inclusion through the implementation of the european disability strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, disabled people have equal rights, including the inalienable rights to dignity, equal treatment, an independent life and full participation in social life, but all too often they face discrimination and obstacles in the exercise of their rights. the european disability strategy has areas of action which are closely interlinked and, precisely because they are interlinked, if we do not achieve satisfactory results in all areas, we cannot say that we have fully achieved it. a virtuous circle must be set in motion which can fully exploit the potential of the individual, promoting independent living and the full inclusion of people with disabilities and making them a positive and productive element also within the work environment. particularly important is the reference to 'after us', a strategy of care for people with severe disabilities after the death of their loved ones. it is an aspect of the care of the disabled person, which is particularly delicate, and which my country is already implementing, and which the most civilized europe, the vanguard of rights in the world, could not and cannot ignore.
in writing. the issue of disability is fundamental. despite the great strides made, including through new technologies and digitalisation, much remains to be done to ensure the effective implementation of the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities. in this respect, a european strategy, allowing for a fruitful exchange of experience and good practice, can bring about concrete improvements for all those european countries which still have a lot to do in this field. i believe that the role of the state and the institutions when we talk about people with disabilities, and especially young people, must be an active role. it is inconceivable that families and disabled people themselves should be left to their own devices and have to face all the problems and difficulties on their own. this requires concrete action, such as the european union's ratification, which is likely to take place shortly, of the marrakesh treaty, which aims to facilitate the crossborder access and exchange of accessible works for blind and visually impaired people. only with concrete policies and actions can the institutions be credible and not by waving empty slogans, good only to feel good about their own conscience, but which do not bring any concrete help to those in difficulty.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs stevens on her excellent work. unfortunately, the good intentions of the authors, that the disability strategy should be universally applicable, often clash with the realities of my own. the existence of architectural barriers in schools is a condition that prevents many children from accessing their own classrooms, preventing them from being able to study with their peers. the professional figures who are able to accompany children today are not only unregulated but very often not professionally adapted to the needs of disabled children. access to work and the shameful conditions in which many disabled workers find themselves, victims of discrimination and unfair dismissals, are still a sad reality, not to mention the concept of deinstitutionalization, or the possibility of being able to decide how to dispose of one's disability, a concept still unknown to me. this is proof that we are not yet ready as a society to accept disability simply as a common and universally accepted condition. i hope that the institutional and civil sphere will be given a boost in this direction.
ladies and gentlemen, on friday, 24 november, a mosque in the north of sinai, egypt, was the target of a terrorist attack which killed hundreds of people who were praying. egypt has recently suffered a number of attacks, but this was the worst in the country's modern history. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to condemn these attacks and express our deepest condolences to the victims and their families and our solidarity with the entire egyptian people. the fight against terrorism must be a joint commitment of europe and africa, as was also stressed the day before yesterday at the meetings in abidjan between the european parliament and the pan-african parliament and at the european union-african union summit. the european union and the african union held a minute's silence yesterday afternoon at the opening ceremony of the summit, and i joined in on behalf of all of you. if we want to repeat even one minute of silence, we can do it now. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
mr frunzulică, thank you very much. we also join in the wishes for the national day of romania.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
mr gollnisch, we are still discussing the budget, but i would point out that it is the committee on legal affairs which makes a proposal to parliament, and parliament is free to decide what it wants. so, it is democracy that will decide on this issue.
the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee on 18 november was approved by both parliament and the council. the budgetary procedure was implemented in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2018 can therefore be considered to be concluded. i therefore declare the budget of the european union for the financial year 2018 definitively adopted. i shall now proceed to the signing of the budget.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in cereals, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a very important one. the omnibus has in fact given us the opportunity to take action on the current structure of the cap, an opportunity which has been made possible mainly thanks to the determined and decisive contribution of the european parliament. the small adjustments and timid openings presented in the commission's initial proposal were certainly in the right direction, but they did not seem to be up to the challenges facing agri-food systems. that is why we felt it was our responsibility to give the citizens and farmers of europe answers that were more than just a touch-up, with an ambitious initiative, through which we were able to strengthen and supplement the ideas offered by the commission. the scale of the innovations introduced in the field of simplification, risk management and market measures make this work a genuine medium-term reform of the common agricultural policy. a mid-term reform with a double value: on the one hand, it is a response to the now certain postponement of the cap reform to the next european parliament and the next commissioner. on the other hand, it has been able to set a starting point for reflection on the future of agricultural policies, also providing a significant direction for the recent commission communication on the cap post-2020. the large number of amendments tabled by parliament has generated intense debate, but the balance achieved is welcomed by all european farmers and is a good example of the work done by our three institutions, in full compliance with the ambitious time-limits initially set by the committees responsible. i would therefore like to thank the estonian presidency, commissioner hogan and his services, and all the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues for the extraordinary work, including from a procedural point of view, in having succeeded in this extrapolation, and i would also like to thank the commissioner for not opposing it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs. i am personally very pleased with the positive results we have achieved with the omnibus regulation. the first is that we have been able to speed up the approval procedure so that we have the operational regulation as of 1 january, and this is proof that when there is the political will, bureaucracy can really be simplified, and i hope that this approach will become more and more frequent. the second positive result is that with the omnibus regulation we are implementing a small reform of the cap which is in the process of being implemented: we are going to correct, adjust, those rules that have proven to be lacking, complex and inefficient, thus moving towards supporting farmers, improving the agro-food production system and protecting the environment. the third positive result is that the regulatory framework has been improved after listening to the criticisms and suggestions of european farmers, those who apply it and live it every day, and this is important because the institutions need to listen more to the citizens and to those who work in the specific sector. we have already seen that decisions simply taken from above do not work, and we want the same shared approach to the definition of the new cap.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached offers the prospect of real reform in the medium term: the definition of an active farmer has been retained, the role of young farmers has been enhanced, direct payment schemes and greening have been simplified. access to insurance instruments, mutual funds and income stabilisation mechanisms for farmers is also improved. the agreement reached on the omnibus is therefore an important achievement for european agriculture, and i congratulate the rapporteurs dess and de castro on the work they have done. the main part of the market measures was given greater force by the contractual arrangements of the op and aop farmers. however, this is not enough: solutions must be found to ensure a more equitable sharing of risks throughout the agri-food chain in order to combat unfair practices. we do not yet have european legislation, and it is essential that european competition law takes account of the specific characteristics of agriculture in order to ensure the well-being of european producers.
in writing. finally, we have achieved positive measures to simplify and protect our farmers. the common agricultural policy should now be more closely geared to the needs of farms. i am very pleased with the work done by our group, especially by mr marco zullo, and with the fact that our amendments to the original proposal were adopted by a favourable vote. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the result is that producer organisations and associations of producer organisations will be able to derogate internally from the competition rules governing the production, sale and processing of agricultural products, in order to give them greater management autonomy. a very important achievement for us, because it represents an important innovation for our agriculture, is to have achieved accessibility to traditional weather insurance.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report focuses on the issue and management of licences for european vessels operating outside union waters, and especially for third country vessels fishing in our waters. cooperation between the european institutions has resulted in a new regime with transparent and harmonised rules, aimed at optimising governance and improving monitoring and implementation. great attention is paid to all measures to protect against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is one of the main threats to our professional fishermen. the new set of rules achieves many of the objectives related to the environmental and economic sustainability of fishing, but without punishing the operators in the sector. unlike the current situation, where small fishermen are exempt from any form of financial support, even in the event of a biological freeze, if they have committed infringements in the period after the disbursement of the fund, they now have to prove that they are not on the list of illegal vessels in order to be authorised to fish in third countries' waters. so yes to compliance with the rules, but without burdening the fishermen with a blind and pretentious bureaucracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached on the new legislative framework for the sustainable management of external fishing fleets is certainly a very good achievement, and i congratulate the rapporteur on that. the new regime provides for strict, transparent and harmonised rules for the issuing and management of fishing authorisations for eu vessels operating outside union waters and for third country vessels fishing in union waters. these are essential rules to improve governance, increase transparency and optimise monitoring and enforcement of the rules, especially in specific cases such as direct authorisations, transhipments or flag changes. the new, more transparent rules will make the eu better able to tackle illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. it was a necessary revision to ensure that fishing activities outside union waters comply with rules and principles similar to those applied within the european union, and it is important in this context to provide for lists of vessels engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aviation is a huge source of greenhouse gas emissions, and if no action is taken to reduce them, they are expected to quadruple by 2050 compared to 2010. for these reasons, the overall reduction of national greenhouse gas emissions is a key objective of european union policy. in this sense, the ets is an essential tool for a cost-effective reduction of these emissions. pending the establishment of the details of the mechanism of a market-based agreement to address the increase in missions globally by the world civil aviation organisation, it is necessary for the european parliament and the council to approve the revision of this regulation. a swift approval by the end of the year will avoid any legal vacuum for european aircraft operators in relation to the ets legislation in the current year. this will ensure legal certainty and clarity and allow compliance with the compliance obligations of the european union ets for aviation and the extension of the derogation until 31 december 2023 for flights outside the european economic area. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the full implementation of the single european sky. this will avoid the fragmentation of airspace and optimise the flow of traffic, resulting in reduced emissions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly and, if no action is taken, could reach four times the level of 2010 by 2050. the increase in aviation emissions risks undermining the efforts of the european union and the world to effectively address climate change. i too express my support for the extension until 2020 of the current eu ets, which reduces emissions by some 17 million tonnes of co2 per year, until there is sufficient clarity on the nature and content of the legal instruments adopted by icao for the implementation of a global measure, the so-called corsia. this means that within the european economic area, the aviation sector will continue to contribute, like every other economic sector, to efforts to reduce domestic emissions. however, work within icao must be accelerated with a view to the effective adoption and implementation of a comprehensive measure capable of solving all the problems related to international traffic.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what does it mean to be a citizen of europe? it means enjoying rights and guarantees which are in addition to the rights and duties of every national citizenship, but if we are not to remain in the realm of mere rhetoric, european citizenship must be translated into more rights and better material living conditions for european citizens. unfortunately, the 2017 citizenship report that the european commission has presented is a flawed and not at all ambitious document. parliament has had to work a lot to fill the gaps left by the commission, and i thank the rapporteur for the work she has done. unfortunately, it has only partially succeeded, despite the reiteration of some important concepts, such as ensuring the full enjoyment of all human, economic, social and cultural rights, full employment and the highest social protection, the adoption of democratic governance that allows citizens to participate actively and effectively in decision-making processes, and much more. some in this parliament still refuse to face reality: the ppe group's request to delete all references to austerity policies is paradoxical. it is now clear that austerity policies have led to a widening of social inequalities and increased poverty, and have certainly not contributed to the full enjoyment of the rights guaranteed by european citizenship. i would like to conclude by saying that if we do not want to reiterate the obvious with this report, we cannot afford to weaken it further.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ultimate objective of the citizenship policies of the union is that all european citizens should feel at home in any member state. this means strengthening rights and making sure they can be valued in everyday life. we must identify areas where there is still work to be done, give a real and concrete meaning to european citizenship, enshrined in article 20 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and chapter 5 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. social rights and benefits, consumer rights in the digital internal market and recognition of professional qualifications as european citizens are just some of the issues to be addressed. the european union still has a long way to go in the area of minorities, although these rights must be guaranteed primarily at member state level. citizenship of the union and the rights it confers are at the heart of the european union, and ensuring that they are exercised in practice is our primary responsibility. we must do more to raise citizens' awareness of the rights they can enjoy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union - and this is the subject - is turning a blind eye to the human rights of the catalan people. but i want to tell you about a tragic event ten years ago in turin, my hometown: in a thyssenkrupp factory, seven workers died, seven italian workers, heroes of the workforce. ten years after the accident, the people responsible for that very serious accident, who had not taken the most basic safety measures, only the italian defendants were imprisoned, but the two main people responsible, the two great managers of the german company, are living quietly, and have even made a career in germany in their company. only a few weeks ago the essen prosecutor's office began the long procedure, i repeat, after ten years. i ask that action be taken to ensure that germany respects the european agreements on justice: who has these responsibilities ? i repeat: seven workers are dead, their widows and children are demanding justice the perpetrators must be jailed.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the conclusion of this third committee which dealt with the problem of tax havens. i would remind you that there are tax havens within the european union, and these tax havens are mentioned in the recent oxfam report, and they are luxembourg, ireland, malta and the netherlands. these are countries which are also founding members of the european union and which continue to pursue a tax policy which is an attack on the ability of countries to recover taxes from multinationals, and we must do everything possible to put an end to this scandal. the report is not binding, unfortunately, because there is a broad consensus in this parliament. the problem is with the legislative proposals: we want the council to be able to work well on this and find solutions and take to heart what is written in the report. i hope, and i repeat, that the vote will not deprive a text which, although it is not legislative, will be important in order to give a boost to this system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subtle distinction that commissioner moscovici has proposed to us, in order to justify the absence of member states on the list, between states which have some irregular practices and those which are instead a general system for the protection of hidden finances, is not convincing. i think that this somewhat jesuit distinction of commissioner moscovici is used in reverse, it can be used in reverse: you have blacklisted poor mongolia and excluded luxembourg, which is a tax haven state. it is a tax haven, or rather, a state, as we all know. but it's not there. you didn't put it there. the report is somewhat criticised for not going into two aspects as it should have: first, the strong link between the issue of tax havens and the dirty, mafia, illegal capital of the international drug trade. even a very senior un official in vienna, and he has repeated this here in brussels, has denounced the role of the banks in international trafficking, in covering up the capital of drug trafficking. this report is not enough, and that is why we shall not vote for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you are well aware, tax policy has become a central issue in the debate in parliament and in the european institutions, especially because of the scandals, unfortunately - first luxleaks and now the panama papers - and for this reason we need ambitious and effective action to combat evasion and avoidance. so we must introduce mechanisms to effectively protect whistleblowers who have given us information, we must prohibit the creation of front companies, we must introduce stricter criteria and effective penalties in the definition of european lists, and we must define a minimum tax rate in the european union for all companies. i think, however, that the most important thing is to indicate explicitly which european countries should be placed on the black list, that is to say, those which practice and encourage evasion and avoidance of resident companies. but even more, the negative consequences of the unanimity rule must be overcome by using article 116: we cannot give a country the right to veto tax policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two lessons to be drawn from the work of this committee: the european union cannot afford to make concessions on tax evasion and avoidance, and the battle at home is far from over. the council must play its part. we have a blacklist now, but we are disappointed that there are no sanctions and that there are some exclusions: the tax havens at home, which encourage aggressive tax planning practices, allowing multinational corporations zero-comma rates; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, the work of the committee has finally made it clear that the phenomena of avoidance and evasion are global, and that the solutions needed must be adopted at a global level. developing countries pay the highest price: we want assessments of the impact of european tax policies on developing countries and the union to push for a genuine intergovernmental body at un level to rewrite global tax rules on an equal footing with all countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission of inquiry set up in the wake of the panama papers is an important demonstration of the commitment of the european institutions to eradicate the scourge of illicit finance in the single market. the result we have achieved with the updating of the black list of tax havens is certainly partial and much remains to be done. but it is certainly a fundamental step towards strengthening transparency and accountability in the financial system. our duty is to give concrete follow-up to the valuable investigative work carried out in recent years by journalists and ngos, revealing a disturbing underground fact of corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest, tax evasion and dangerous infiltration of organized crime in the market, and which among other things cost the life of daphne caruana galizia. freedom of information must be protected with a strong sense of responsibility and morality, and we must always bear in mind that the steps europe is taking towards genuine financial transparency are not just about the market or the banks, but first and foremost about democracy and the citizens.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, this is a great day for all of us who have participated in the efsi project, but also and especially for those who will benefit from additional investment in our member states and regions. i want to thank the rapporteurs, udo bullmann and josé manuel fernandes for their great cooperation and also all the chairs who run our trilogues very smoothly and skilfully, like mr gualtieri and mr sarvamaa, and other meps who participated in this effort. let me take stock of the investment plan’s achievements before i turn to the changes under efsi 2.0. up to now, efsi has managed to trigger additional investment worth eur 250 billion. in other terms, it will create new jobs and new financing opportunities for infrastructure, investments and smes. in addition to large infrastructure projects and industrial investments, some 530 000 european smes and mid-caps have already benefitted from efsi financing. in other terms, according to the european investment bank, efsi investments made up to now will increase european gdp by 0.67% by 2020 and this will increase the number of jobs by 690 000. this is only the result of efsi investments up to now. the overall figure will be higher when efsi expires later on. this is only the result of efsi. this is not the result of the entire investment plan for europe. there the third pillar in particular plays a role. geographically, efsi has also functioned very well. i will give you a list of the countries which are the five best users of efsi and it looks quite good. estonia is number one, bulgaria is second, greece third, portugal fourth, and spain fifth. our idea was to address market failure and it seems to be functioning as we planned. let me give you some concrete examples of efsi projects. in poland the eib is providing a loan of over eur 30 million for the construction of 1 300 affordable houses for low-income earners. in greece, the eib is lending to a telecoms operator to roll out high-speed broadband, bringing better internet access to rural and remote areas of the country. in finland, efsi supports the first ever social impact points scheme in europe. the scheme will support the integration of up to 3 700 migrants and refugees in the finnish labour market through training and job matching assistance. in the czech republic, a start—up called frusack received an efsi—backed loan to scale up their reusable bags business. in germany, the eib is lending eur 35 million to a medical device company to support the development of a new approach to treating the most aggressive type of brain cancer, and in romania, efsi is helping a recycling company called greenfiber to broaden the scope of their business. under efsi 2.0, we ensure that all the projects continue to match the high expectations which we have set. this efsi extension will increase the target of investment to be triggered to at least eur 0.5 trillion by 2020. efsi 2.0 comes with a number of enhancements as a result of the input and commitment of the co—legislators. let me outline some of them. first, there is a more precise definition of ‘additionally’, and, second, investment decisions will be better explained and the scoreboard on which they are based will be published. this is a measure of transparency and also of increased accountability. thirdly, technical assistance to project promoters at a local level will be strengthened so that even more regions and sectors can benefit from it. finally, efsi 2.0 will better focus on eu political priorities, such as climate change and environmental projects. i would now like to focus on three areas where the parliament’s constructive, but determined, pressure was key and take this opportunity to two rapporteurs, udo bullmann and josé manuel fernandes. the first relates to the report of the committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. thanks to parliament’s efforts, due diligence on european investment bank operations under this regulation will include a thorough check of compliance with eu and international standards on anti—money laundering, the fight against terrorism, financing and tax fraud, and on tax avoidance. the second area where the european parliament has clearly left a footprint is increased transparency. thanks to parliament’s efforts, the scoreboard of indicators will be made public after the signature of each project and the investment committee will substantiate its decision on the granting of eu funding. finally, parliament’s efforts are also clearly seen when it comes to support for small—scale projects. as mr fernandes rightly pointed out, what is perceived as small in some countries or regions is actually a large-scale project in others. better use of platforms, a delegation model with national promotional banks and a reinforced advisory hub will help smaller projects to benefit from efsi more than they have been doing so far. before i conclude, i would like to highlight that much still remains to be done. efsi plays a major role in catalysing private investment, but the impact of these funds would be enhanced by further addressing barriers to investment in member states. i refer to the third pillar of the investment plan that is a joint european and national responsibility. thank you very much for the great cooperation.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank my colleagues for the good agreement they have brought home, for their work which has produced important results. the regi committee put forward a number of amendments which were accepted in principle, and we are pleased about that. first of all, better territorial distribution, greater involvement of regions and local authorities, support for regions in transition and cohesion regions, better use of national and regional platforms, as well as macro-regional and cross-border platforms, monitoring of the actual additionality of investments, including the assessment of the criteria at regional and local level, and greater involvement of regions and local authorities, in particular in projects that see the esi and structural funds converging. we believe that in the future it should become a permanent instrument for financing investment in europe and that account should also be taken of regions which have fallen into the so-called middle-income trap, for which there is a lack of major structural investment.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask commissioner katainen whether he really believes that this instrument, in addition to the data it is trying to promote in every way, is actually stimulating demand within the european union, because looking at the data on what the real stimulus is that this instrument is bringing, plus the 'core' inflation which remains very low, the underemployed who are increasing precisely because of the reforms that you, as the 'hawk' of the commission, are proposing to excess, especially in the countries of southern europe, these are the problems and would need much more public investment. unfortunately, the private investment that the juncker fund will bring, if we do the calculations to show that his data is very inflated, we will get to 500 billion maybe, in 2020, of investments generated, so 100 billion a year, divided by 28 countries: three and a half billion a year per country. now, that's a pretty ridiculous number compared to what the economy needs today. i am in favour of a rationalisation of public spending on really productive investment, but we need to loosen the bridges of austerity, otherwise there will be no hope for some countries to repay this monstrous public debt, which my country has, for example, but you cannot repay a public debt of 135 per cent of gdp, you must in my view make gdp grow in a sustainable way, so that the denominator is lowered. and using this tool alone, you realize that you're not going to get out of this situation. as regards the projects financed so far by the juncker fund, i unfortunately do not see much additionality, and within the proposals that are there, i do not understand why the greens continue to support it, precisely because there are still projects focused on fossil fuels, on non-renewable sources and so - i had a minute and a half, madam president - and so i wonder how it is possible that sustainable projects are not financed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i really think that this was a fine page of parliamentary democracy, the one that led us to adopt this text. i share the pride and joy expressed by udo bullmann and i would also like to thank vice-president katainen for his role and also for the generous words he has expressed today. there is no doubt, i think, that the new 'efsi 2.0' can strengthen both the quantity and the quality of the investments mobilised. that was kind of our twist. reconcile quantity and quality. more quality with climate change earmarking, with the scoreboard, with support for small projects, more quantity and better regional distribution with pricing rules and blending rules with structural funds, and finally more transparency and more democracy with changes in governance. we now expect consistency in the implementation of the regulation, and the european parliament will be at the forefront of this too.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of the efsi and efsi 2 plans, the european investment plan, is certainly a sign of a europe which has finally been divided and has bet on itself, but there are two objectives which we have a duty to pursue, which this parliament always refers to in the work of the commission and in the work of the council. on the one hand, investing and betting on small and mediumsized enterprises, which are also the backbone of our continent, and on the other, finding the same resources and capacity, the same strength that we had in approving the investment plan, also for the fight to have a social europe. a social europe means fighting unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and poverty. we are faced with, and we are very proud of, funding and investing in the so-called industry 4.0, but we still have in europe a welfare 1.0 which is no longer appropriate for its time. the member states are no longer able to do this and we need a europe which can take over from the member states and finally put forward proposals on social policy.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the book ershad al-zera'a, a guide to agriculture, written by a scholar of the 14th century, it is said that in afghanistan, in the herat area alone, over a hundred different varieties of grapes, almonds, apricots, pomegranates, jellies, pistachios and figs were grown. afghanistan was an eden, with a climate particularly favorable to its neighbors. today the un tells us that afghanistan has broken all records in opium production: 9 000 tonnes of poppy grown on 328 000 hectares of land; more 87 percent of production, more 63 percent of area compared to 2016. most of it will end up on our streets, turned into heroin, and fund the endless afghan conflict, which, 17 years after the first us intervention, shows no sign of abating. in fact, there are at least three parallel wars being fought in the country: the first is against drugs, the second against the taliban insurgency and the third against corruption. and all three are falling apart, as evidenced by trump's decision to deploy 4,000 new troops to afghanistan after a complex 2017, where the taliban insurgency was joined by isis, increasingly active and ready, according to several international analysts, to build its next stronghold in the country. europe rightly calls for an afghan-led political process in which all parties can sit down at the negotiating table: difficult solution, especially as long as the conflict continues to be a golden goose for all parties involved; afghan forces, who through corrupt officials, divert weapons and aid received from western allies to the rebels, for a high price; and the taliban themselves, through opium cultivation, natural resource exploitation and various other illicit trafficking, are amassing fortunes in the billions of dollars. there are some positive data, however: the country's gdp per capita is growing, life expectancy is getting longer, access to health care and education is increasing, albeit slightly. we must build on this data, focusing especially on the young people, who are struggling hard to change the image and management of the country. the eu should take action by putting in place policies aimed at their enhancement, which will contribute to the maturation of the whole of afghan society, while at the same time removing fertile ground for terrorist recruitment. it may take 20 years, but it's the only way to go.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there were more than 8,000 civilian casualties in afghanistan in 2017, and one in three of them was a child. and these figures, ladies and gentlemen, are enough to tell the story of a country which lives in a reality of daily war. these numbers should suffice to tell us how the situation in afghanistan remains grave and highly unstable. the attacks on hospitals continue, the attacks on humanitarian aid centres continue, corruption remains at a very high level, as does the incessant trafficking of drugs and the illegal trafficking of arms, particularly, we must say, to terrorist organisations. and so we certainly cannot call afghanistan a stable country, we cannot call afghanistan a safe country, especially for its own citizens, especially for children, for women, and the return of refugees to the country, especially those who no longer have a social or family network, is equivalent to a death sentence. and it is good to reiterate that today, it is good to reiterate that in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how long has the war in afghanistan been going on? it's been going on for 17 years, it's an endless war that we don't even talk about in our media anymore, except sporadically and marginally. it is a war that can be described as somewhat forgotten. trump's arrival has not changed the trend either, and the withdrawal of nato and allied troops, originally scheduled for 2014, has been postponed to 2020 and beyond. many say that it is not right to leave a job before it is finished. what kind of work are we talking about? unemployment has gone from 8 to 40 percent, kabul has gone from a million to five and a half million people, and the only relevant activity is opium production. many boys join because they have no other choice to earn a living, but as soon as they can, they desert and leave. it is important here today to welcome the initiative of the international criminal court to launch an independent investigation into war crimes and crimes against humanity committed during the afghan conflict. i think that it is necessary and desirable to establish a transparent allocation of responsibility, irrespective of the parties involved, given that there is a risk that a third party, namely daesh, will be added.
mr president, the rohingya are still facing serious human rights violations of all sorts, and systematic discrimination and persecution. the situation does not seem to be improving. the european parliament tried to draw attention to this situation several times, most recently with the resolution of last september, a few days after the un high commissioner for human rights, zeid bin ra'ad zied al-hussein, declared that the situation in myanmar seemed to be a textbook example of ethnic cleansing. as the governments of myanmar and bangladesh have signed the agreement to repatriate close to a million rohingya refugees currently in bangladesh, these people are facing the prospect of a return with absolutely no guarantee of safety. i have some major concerns about where these people will go after repatriation, as they will most likely be deported from one camp to another and we will probably face once again the horrific crimes we all know about. these people in need probably don’t even have a house to go back to as most houses were burned down by the military and villages were burned to the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rohingya: a word that many people didn't know, the name of an ethnic group, of a muslim minority persecuted by the tatmadaw, the burmese buddhist military. a people that no one wants, that has seen its identity denied, its rights brutally trampled upon. the bengalis - that's what they call them in myanmar - have been deprived of their citizenship, their freedom and even their dignity and humanity. torture, violence, rape and massacre: nothing has been spared them over the years, especially in these months. the un is already talking about ethnic cleansing, and al hussein, the high commissioner for human rights, says that the actions of the military could be classified as genocide. it is no coincidence that the number of refugees, some 650 000, is comparable to the number of people fleeing rwanda in 1992. i therefore call on the sakharov prize and nobel peace prize laureate aung san suu kyi, who has been guilty of silence so far, to allow the government to authorise the un human rights council fact-finding mission and to allow aid agencies and observers access to burmese territory. i ask that the agreement with bangladesh on repatriation be implemented only on condition that full citizenship be granted to this tortured people. courage, consistency and commitment is what we are asking of aung san suu kyi and all of us. let's just be human.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all, let me say that it is always useful to hear members’ views, take them into consideration for the continuation of our work on the ground, and continue to use all the instruments we have. as many members said, there is a certain amount of work we can do. there are other things that are not in our power or our hands to solve, but the fact that we are by far the largest humanitarian donor, literally keeping people alive in very difficult conditions, is already a very important component of our work on stabilisation and development assistance and on political dialogue. i would like to stress the fact that the bilateral agreement was reached after we applied pressure and after our meetings together with both the bangladeshi and the myanmar sides. we will continue with the monitoring of the implementation of this agreement and with the support specifically for human rights, democracy and – let me mention one point that was raised by one of you and that i believe is extremely important – the work we do on accountability and the fight against impunity. this has to be part of the commitments that are taken by the myanmar authorities. we know very well – as i said at the beginning and as you are all extremely aware – that myanmar is, even more than a young democracy, a country in transition still, and we have to be aware of the fact that we have to do two difficult exercises at the same time. on the one hand, we have to find a solution to the issue of the rohingya that is sustainable and in full respect of all of their rights. this is doable with the full implementation of the annan report, to which aung san suu kyi has committed herself. on the other hand, we have to strengthen the democratic process in myanmar, knowing very well that there is a political fight in that country and things are complicated, to say the least. so we also have to prevent the clock turning backwards in myanmar itself, and after so many years of military rule this is always a risk. so this is the exercise we are doing and, with a strong commitment and strong engagement from the european union side, we will continue to do so. on returns, these obviously have to happen in a dignified and safe manner, in full respect for all rights and international standards. this is not an issue that is going to be solved easily – on the contrary – but i believe that one first extremely small but encouraging step has happened. it is not just a bilateral issue between myanmar and bangladesh, but without that first bilateral step, the international work to try to solve the problem would not be possible. we will continue to work and to push the international community and in particular, as i said, the unhcr and international ngos towards a full role in this process. it will be a long process that will require all our political determination. the council for sure will come back to this point: we adopted council conclusions in october, and i am ready to put this issue on the agenda again any time to try to help and push for a solution to this issue. thank you very much for keeping this issue high on the agenda. i believe this is useful and i count on your full support in the continuation of our work on this.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 december. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. an opportunity for pope francis during his trip to myanmar, where he could have specifically mentioned the christian minority in myanmar, which is the largest religious minority and has been discriminated against and harassed for over half a century. discrimination and harassment, during which, over the years, the army systematically burned villages, massacred their inhabitants and forced tens of thousands of displaced people to seek refuge in refugee camps in thailand. not that churches have been expropriated to make way for buddhist temples, so much so that some of the faithful are forced to lease and make available private property or homes in order to have a place to practice their religion. with almost total impunity, the military continues to commit serious human rights abuses, such as sexual violence within religious complexes and torture of pastors, worshippers and ordinary citizens. furthermore, christians employed in civil service and other government sectors are usually overlooked in promotions, at the expense of buddhists, and if they hold government positions, they risk sanctions if they do not support buddhist initiatives, so the authorities often draw on the slippery christian pay for funding. unfortunately, no condemnation was voiced. what a shame!
the agenda for the joint debate is: the report by michael gahler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (2017/2123(ini)) (a8-0351/2017), the report by david mcallister, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (2017/2121(ini)) (a8-0350/2017), and the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on permanent structured cooperation (psc) opening a new chapter in the european security and defence policy (2017/2121(ini)) (2017/3004 ((sp)).
we are now opening the debate properly and we can accept the blue cards, but the time must be respected by all the speakers because we are very late.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, federica mogherini is right to be satisfied, and we in parliament are satisfied with her. because today altiero spinelli's dream of a common european defence is within reach, after years in which any ambition was branded as politically impracticable. france, which once rejected the proposal, is now strongly pro-european, as are italy and many other countries. britain is no longer an obstacle and trump's united states has abdicated its role as the world's stabilizer, quite the opposite. so today it is the european union that has the moral leadership of international diplomacy, and this is a title sealed by the nobel peace prize of 2012, by the excellent work of mogherini on the ground, and also by the will that you have reiterated here today. this was a very difficult point, but for us in our important group, to use these instruments of power, including military, "in the european way", so it was said, that is, in accordance with our values. the signing by the defence ministers, the road to structured cooperation, the action plan are historic, but we know that we are still a long way off, that many delays must be overcome and that they must be overcome well. i am also thinking of research for a strategic autonomy for europe. i'm going to end by saying that we know that many illiberal powers, by growing militarily, are increasing their power in this world. it is up to us to play a different game - i am thinking of africa and libya - to be a europe capable of hard and soft power.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the dice have been drawn: last october, the us administration refused to certify the agreement on the iranian nuclear programme. a move which, in my view, lacks any rational logic and is dictated more by internal electoral reasons. the image of iran as the arch-enemy and sole source of regional instability is certainly not conducive to the future of the middle east. i honestly find it difficult to identify him as the one responsible for the regional problems: on the contrary, he is certainly in good company. the defence of human rights is necessary and indispensable, but as has been mentioned, apart from tehran's role in hosting afghan refugees, the nuclear agreement is working globally. denying it would open the way again to the most radical factions in the country, exponentially increasing the risk of an escalation in the region, with unpredictable if not apocalyptic consequences. as a union we have a duty to keep our head and be balanced in our approach. only then can we be the bearers of peace and not of further tension in the middle east.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the high representative mogherini for the excellent report with which she has introduced this debate. the iran nuclear deal was a diplomatic success for the european union. with the recent developments linked to the statements of the president of the united states, who has expressed his will to withdraw the usa from the agreement, the diplomatic effort of the european union must be even stronger. i agree with the high representative that the joint comprehensive plan of action is a multilateral agreement adopted by a un security council resolution, and therefore does not belong to any state and cannot be unilaterally amended. we must confirm our support for the agreement: in addition to being the basis for a renewed economic relationship with iran, the implementation of the jcpoa, with the consequent easing of sanctions, is having a positive political impact on iranian citizens. i also believe that iran's opening up to the international dimension can be a stimulus to the improvement of the internal situation and a unique opportunity to begin a process of full integration of iran into an international and global context. the european union must of course seek to establish a strategic and structured dialogue, which must also go beyond the facade and therefore also deal with the issues of human rights violations. the worrying use of the death penalty, the persecution of minorities, the arrests of activists and the discrimination against women cannot be ignored. but i think it is essential that efforts to establish a relationship with iran as laid down in the agreements continue.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me clarify a couple of things that most of the speakers here have underlined, but which i think might be usefully remembered for others. first of all, the purpose of the nuclear deal with iran – the name says it very clearly – is nuclear, and only nuclear. was this a right or wise choice or not? it was taken 14 years ago at the beginning of the negotiations, and i don’t believe i disclose a secret if i say that it was the decision of the gulf countries and the american administration at the time to limit the negotiations to purely nuclear issues. it was iran at that time insisting on having a negotiation that would have included other aspects. was it a wise choice or not? not for me or for you to judge it today, but the decision back then – not by iran, by the way – was of a different kind. since it was purely nuclear, we have facts certified by an agency that has proven to be crucial and will continue to prove to be crucial in other nuclear proliferation issues like the iaea, certifying that nuclear commitments of the nuclear deal have been met constantly. it would not be wise to weaken the credibility of the agency, of the iaea, when a few months or years from now we will hopefully need to push for the iaea to enter and monitor other nuclear programmes. so if the agency testifies and certifies nine times after inspections, after technical work – and that needs to be happening in fully independent, non-political arguments for that on all sides – that the nuclear commitments under the nuclear agreements are met, then the deal is working. full stop. that is a fact. then, second, does this mean that we are positive about iran, that we trust iran, that there is an optimism about the atmosphere? it is exactly because it is a country like iran that you need to have a nuclear deal, because you do not want a country like iran in that region to develop a nuclear weapon. if it was switzerland, maybe we would be in a different position. it is not about being naive; it is the contrary. it is the lack of trust that makes the deal indispensable. and this was the reasoning of all the years of negotiations. this was the reason why the us administration engaged in this at that time, not having diplomatic relations with iran, which is something that on the contrary most of the european union member states have. and there is one fundamental argument that some of you have raised: if we start saying that, with any change of administration, agreements and international commitments are put into question, we are not doing ourselves a favour, because nobody would accept negotiating any agreement, any international agreement with any administration of the future or of the present. in latin we say: pacta sunt servanda. that is the basis of any legal system of the world. so it is exactly because there is and was no trust that an agreement was needed. then it is true, not in an article of the jcpoa – i know it almost by heart by now – but in the preamble of the 104 pages of agreement, that there is a reference, half a sentence, that suggests that this agreement could open the way, could form the basis for a different kind of engagement, a more constructive engagement in the region. that sentence – here maybe i disclose a secret – was introduced at iran’s request, because the iranian leadership at the time, which is the same that has been reconfirmed today, intended to use the agreement as a way to ask their own population, their own public opinion, for a mandate to engage with the rest of the world in a political battle which we know very well has happened inside iran and is continuing to happen. some of you referred to the fact that undermining the full implementation of the nuclear deal also weakens those in iran’s political scene who are trying to commit in their own way – which is not ours – towards an opening and an engagement with the rest of the world. weakening or putting into question the jcpoa is a way to strengthen the hardliners in the political scene in iran. is it convenient for us? not for us, for sure. having said that, what would happen if the deal was not there? imagine that tomorrow the deal was no longer there. would the human rights situation in iran improve? probably not; on the contrary, hardliners would be stronger. would the regional behaviour of iran improve? for sure it would not. would the iranian nuclear programme continue to be monitored? no. would the iaea have the means to be in the country? no. would we be sure that iran would not develop a nuclear programme that is purely peaceful? definitely not, and enrichment would go up again tomorrow. so is it convenient to keep the nuclear deal in place? yes. this is the very simple argument that is keeping the entire world committed to the full implementation of the jcpoa, and i am confident that the united states of america will also remain committed to the full implementation of the jcpoa. this is what we discussed with secretary of state tillerson last week in brussels, and this is the message we got from him. we are continuing to implement the agreement, and just today in vienna the secretary-general of the eeas, schmid, who has played a crucial role in these negotiations together with an excellent team from the european union side, is chairing at deputy level the joint commission of the jcpoa once again. we do it regularly, sometimes at ministerial level. we did it last time in september with all the parties around the table. so i believe it is a matter of convenience; it is not a matter of being naive or ‘liking’ a system or a country. on the contrary. two points i would like to clarify: one is related to the agreement. there is no sunset clause in the agreement – i know that this is often referred to. read all the 104 pages of the agreement; there is no sunset clause to the agreement. the agreement has many different provisions with many different durations. most of them last for a long, long time. most of them last forever. and in the very beginning of the agreement there is the most important commitment taken by iran: of never developing a nuclear weapon. this is a commitment that is there for ever as an npt part. so let’s stick to the facts. the nuclear deal, the nuclear commitment, fulfils more safety in the region and for us. that is why i said to our american friends that this is a matter of strategic relevance for european security. it is not about business, and it is not about the region; it is about security, because we do not want to see a region that is already troubled enough in a nuclear arms race. we miss just that. and then, good luck with north korea: if we dismantle the only working deal on non-proliferation in the nuclear field, i want to see how we manage to peacefully solve the nuclear proliferation crisis that is currently ongoing. we have one deal that is preventing a nuclear proliferation, and we want to dismantle it? we must be crazy. so i think, and i am confident, that we can continue to work to ensure that iran continues to fulfil its commitments under the deal in full. that is the key point. the last point i would like to mention is on human rights, because it hurts me enormously when i hear voices saying that we stay silent on human rights. actually, we are the ones that are more vocal on human rights when it comes to iran. look at president trump’s speech. look at the american discourse on the death penalty and compare it with the credibility on the death penalty that europe has. sorry to be blunt, but we have entered into a time where diplomacy has a different language. we are the ones raising individual cases, and we do it even today; in vienna, issues were raised on individual cases. we are the ones who have started a human rights dialogue with iran that regularly takes place. we are the ones, not others. and we are the ones raising this issue constantly. i don’t see others doing this. we never, ever avoid raising issues on human rights because of other reasons. we always do that, constantly and consistently, and sometimes – most of the time – we are the only ones. so let’s at least support and recognise the work we do. that is going to continue to be a very important aspect of our engagement with the country. but again, i would say the most important thing for me are the social and the political dynamics inside the country. the iranian population was celebrating the iran deal, not because of nuclear issues, but because it was representing the opportunity to open up the country to international engagement. that is the investment that is smart to do as europeans, and that is why i would like to thank this hemicycle in its vast majority and the parliamentary delegations that travelled both to iran and to washington to support what is a fully united european union position, when the entire world is looking at us to guarantee that the full implementation of the agreement is maintained by all sides.
thank you, vice president mogherini. your marathon is not over and you will remain with us for the next discussions. the debate on this point is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on us president trump's announcement to recognise jerusalem as the capital of israel (2017/3012(rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the voice of the european union has been heard loud and clear in all corners of the word after president trump’s announcement on jerusalem. we believe that jerusalem shall be the capital of two states: west jerusalem for the state of israel and east jerusalem for the state of palestine. we believe that the only way to achieve this goal is through direct negotiations between the parties based on the 1967 borders and that there is no alternative solution that would be both viable and sustainable, meet the aspirations of the two sides and address the legitimate concerns. this is the position of the entire european union and this is what all 28 foreign ministers said yesterday morning to prime minister benjamin netanyahu, one by one, in full unity. our position is built on the most solid foundations. it is based on the oslo accords between israeli and palestinian leaders and on the international consensus embodied in un security council resolution 478. our partners know very well where we stand and we have made it very clear – always, and during these last very difficult days. as a partner and as a friend, we have always been clear in our contacts with the united states, before and after the decision was taken. exactly one week ago, i met with rex tillerson, the us secretary of state, together with the 28 foreign ministers of the european union member states, and we invited the united states to carefully consider the repercussions that such a decision may have had on public opinion in the region and all around the world, because what happens in jerusalem has global repercussions for good and for bad. this move risks strengthening radical forces in the region and weakening forces of wisdom and moderation, being completely counterproductive. we discussed these arguments with our american interlocutors, including a couple of days ago with jared kushner, president trump’s middle east adviser, and our contacts with our american friends will continue in the coming days and weeks. the israelis and the palestinians also know where we stand and this makes us a credible, predictable and indispensable partner for them to restart a meaningful peace process. it therefore comes as no surprise that our meeting yesterday with prime minister netanyahu was very open and frank. we did not hide our disagreements because this is what good friends and partners, as we are, should always do. we have made it clear that we will continue to respect the international consensus on jerusalem as europeans, including on the location of our embassies, until the final status of jerusalem is resolved through direct negotiations between the parties. at the same time, we understand israel’s security concerns and we want to see them properly addressed. i took the opportunity of the visit of prime minister netanyahu – the first one for more than 20 years – to condemn in the strongest possible terms all attacks against jews everywhere in the world, including in europe, and all attacks against israeli citizens. at the same time, we believe that israel’s security interests are best served by having a stable, viable, independent palestinian state living in peace and security at the side of the israeli state. this is what many great israeli leaders have rightly believed throughout the years and this is what led yitzhak rabin to sign the oslo accords. i presented the very same position, very openly and very clearly, to our palestinian and arab friends. last week, i spoke with president abbas and guaranteed that the european union will continue to work for jerusalem to be the capital of both the state of israel and the state of palestine. we agreed with president abbas that he will join us in brussels on the occasion of the january foreign affairs council, and we will have a similar discussion with him on the perspectives of the relaunch of the middle east peace process that we had yesterday with prime minister netanyahu. i also asked president abbas to do all he can to make sure that all demonstrations remain peaceful. on friday, in brussels, i met with my jordanian counterpart, and also my friend, foreign minister ayman al safadi, and with him contacts have continued on a daily basis, actually several times a day. we are in contact with what we consider to be a key player at this moment because jordan plays a very special role when it comes to jerusalem. his majesty the king of jordan is the custodian of the holy sites, as agreed in the peace treaty between israel and jordan. he is also a very wise man and i believe all of us remember the very wise words he addressed to this very chamber a couple of years ago. i thank the minister for the restraint and the wisdom shown by jordan in this difficult situation, including the work done by jordan and others during the league of arab states ministerial meeting in cairo last saturday, where the arab peace initiative was recalled as a useful framework to re—advance the possibility to start negotiations. the steps taken by the arab states in these days and in the coming days, in the near future, will be particularly important: to show leadership, wisdom, restraint and moderation, keeping the clearly defined position that we are backing in full consistency with our consolidated position and role. i can say that i believe that, in these hours and days, the european union is an important point of reference for the arab world. regardless of all the narratives and the rhetoric about the arab world and the west, europe constitutes an important point of reference to uphold the principle and the consensus developed on jerusalem. for us europeans this situation is a call to mobilise with even greater conviction for peace between israel and palestine. we are determined to play an even more active role in trying to provide, first, a political horizon for the two-state solution – there is no realistic alternative to two states – and, second, to work to create the appropriate international and regional framework to relaunch direct negotiations. so we will keep working. we are continuing to work at this time with both parties and with the middle east quartet, which means together with the united states, russia and the united nations. this format, as i have said in recent days, could possibly be enlarged to include key regional players such as jordan and egypt, but we could also involve other important partners, such as norway, who could play an important part in supporting this process. the united states should – and could – continue to play an important role in that framework. it is in the darkest hours, such as these, that the work of peacemakers becomes more difficult – yes – but more important. we must first of all engage to prevent any escalation around jerusalem, which could have terrible consequences for the region and beyond, and we must engage to preserve the objective of two states and recreate the conditions for the peace process to restart – the key to restart the engine. let me conclude by saying that jerusalem is not just a city. jerusalem is the cradle of three faiths. our ancestors believed that it was the centre of the entire world and the whole world still looks at jerusalem. it can be a reason for division and even war or it can be the most powerful symbol of peace and reconciliation. the region and the world count on europe – count on the european union – to stay engaged with a clear, united message and clear, determined work and this is exactly what we are doing in the clearest and most united manner.
thank you, vice president mogherini. we shall now hear the views of the political groups. at this stage we will not accept "blue card" because we are very late. mr preda, on behalf of the group of the european people's party.
i am sorry, but first of all, nobody has prevented you from speaking. the political groups are speaking now, they are presenting their assessments, and then the blue card will be available. no one has or will forbid you to use it. so we're careful when we receive certain communications. mr valenciano, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i would like to ask you to take part in the debate on the report by mr valenciano.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, someone in the end launched a bomb, and it was not kim jong-un. the decision by president trump to recognise jerusalem as israel’s capital is the diplomatic equivalent of using a nuclear weapon. it is a choice that is reckless, irresponsible and indeed damaging for both the israeli and the palestinian people and is detrimental to the prospects for an already difficult peace process. the consequences are in front of all of us: six consecutive days of clashes, four palestinians dead so far, and more than 1 200 wounded, one israeli stabbed. tens of thousands are demonstrating in a range of middle eastern and muslim nations. daesh is probably rejoicing for the free propaganda. what saddens me the most is that these casualties happened just for trump’s electoral purposes: they were totally avoidable. that is why they are even more unjustifiable. jerusalem cannot just be the capital of israel, or even less just the capital of palestine. it must be the capital of both states, and we must recognise palestine as a state, as provided for in the oslo agreements. i dare to say, given its unique status as a holy city for the three great monotheistic religions, that jerusalem should be the heritage and capital of all mankind.
the debate will now also include blue card applications. mr petir, one minute and thirty seconds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's response to trump's provocative decision to recognise jerusalem as the capital of israel has been clear and unequivocal, and it is right and proper for this parliament to recognise it. the us administration's move not only breaks international law, but risks undermining the very principle of 'two states, two peoples' which is the basis of any peace process. the price of this shift can be high, as demonstrated by both the palestinian and arab reactions, and it can upset the already fragile balance in the region. so, the clear and unambiguous answer you gave to the israeli prime minister in brussels yesterday is not enough. the time has come to make netanyahu and his government feel the pressure of the european union even more, and i think that in order to prevent our position from becoming a mere cry to the moon, it is essential to tell the council to make this position consistent with the same policies towards israel. the association agreement and the trade policies themselves are used to introduce strict conditionality. and i think the time has come to do that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the 1967 war, israel occupied east jerusalem and the west bank in clear violation of international law. there are 320 000 palestinians in jerusalem alone, whose civil rights are being crushed by the israeli authorities. the united states' recognition of occupied jerusalem as the capital of israel is a dangerous unilateral act that undermines several principles of international law. it ignores both un resolutions, which emphasize the special status of jerusalem, and the 2004 international court of justice ruling, which defines israel as an occupying power in some territories comprising east jerusalem. but above all it dramatically undermines any hope for a two-state solution, it triggers further tension and violence, with dramatic consequences in terms of clashes, injuries and human lives. the position of my delegation, the five star movement, on the israeli-palestinian question has always been consistent and in line with the provisions of international law: the european union is also calling for the establishment of a 'two peoples, two states' system, the removal of illegal israeli settlements in the occupied territories and the respect by israel of the infrastructure financed with european money in the west bank and the gaza strip. i'll close with a quote from an israeli writer, grossman: "israelis and palestinians don't need to build a wall separating them, they need to tear down the wall that divides them".
i would like to ask the commissioner three questions. first of all: the 2012 judgment of the european court of justice in the hirsi case. i have read the verdict that condemned italy for mass expulsions in libya, and the context is the same. the european convention is being violated and libya is unreliable, as it has not ratified the geneva convention. what's the difference between 2009 and today? secondly: the decision taken in abidjan to evacuate the camps where violence is taking place, to activate voluntary returns of migrants, to resettle some of them. i would like to know what procedures will be followed so that the returnees do not have to choose between plague and cholera, and i would like to know the number of evacuations. cochetel, a unhcr envoy, said that most of the torture sites are unknown, that sarraj controls a minimal amount of territory. he said again: the decisions of abidjan are illusory. every time we released someone from the detention camps, someone else immediately took his place. one last question . how far has the union progressed in redefining the concept of non-refoulement, as proposed in valletta in february? the purpose was prudently deleted from the communiqué. i ask if it is still on the agenda.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative has only told us part of the truth in his description of the route of these economic migrants whom europe had been trying to save from the sad experience of the often deadly journeys across the mediterranean. it is true that they are handed over to the countries of origin, which, among other things, take them in because they have temporary passports. so they're being received and filmed from ghana, from nigeria, and that's fine, that part of the narrative would be great. but the high representative does not say who: the libyan coast guard has been able to seize all these irregular boats of smugglers who want to hand over the poor migrants to other exploiters. but there is the other side of the coin that is not told to us, namely those who cross the line - i apologize and conclude - of libyan competence arrive in italy, on ships of italy, the eu or ngos, and are dispersed in italian territory and arrive in europe. so here we go again: you've only partially solved the problem. the other half of the landings continue, that's the truth you don't tell!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner says that the problems are not new, but that they were already present in libya in terms of human rights violations, and that is true. but we have to ask whether the current containment policies are actually solving or worsening the problems that exist. what we see, in fact, is that these containment policies produce two effects: the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been detained in libya, and for the immediate release of all those who have been arrested in libya. i wonder, and i ask you, whether the time has not come to reflect on the real consequences of these policies of containment and to approach a different migration policy towards libya by the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, libya has not known peace for too many years, it is a country in utter chaos and with an unknown future, a hostage to violence and a trap for thousands of people seeking international protection. the country is facing an unprecedented humanitarian, security and political crisis which requires immediate action by the european union and the entire international community. we must act with urgency to respond to the atrocities against migrants, but also libyan citizens themselves, and put in place long-term policies to ensure security and stability. the challenge today is to ensure that the union speaks with one voice in libya, fully assuming its rightful leadership role in the peace process. solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility: no member state should be forced to act alone. peace, reconciliation and reconstruction are the necessary conditions for the country to be able to find credible interlocutors and for the smuggling and trafficking networks to be dismantled. urgent measures to put an end to the atrocities we have all witnessed and which have been denounced by very good ngos. but also long-term objectives, peace and reconciliation at the heart of our strategies to work towards an inclusive political dialogue and full respect for human rights, for the reconstruction of the country and the stabilization of the entire mediterranean area and the sahel region. i conclude by saying that we must put in place a tool for safe, orderly and regular migration.
in writing. in libya it is difficult to understand whether the european union is fighting the smugglers or the migrants. the government of al-sarraj receives our money but does not control its territory, which is contracted directly or indirectly to militias fighting other militias, groups that also manage the trafficking of migrants and on which the increase or decrease in landings in italy depends. the main means of controlling migration flows in that country is mass detention, which is arbitrary, without rights and for an indefinite period. because there is no single recognized authority in libya, when we say we are training the libyan coast guard and providing support for the management of migration flows, we don't really know who we are paying or supporting, nor which libyan territory, which stretch of sea is controlled and by whom. a situation that amnesty international describes as "a dark web of collusion" through which european governments, in order to prevent people from leaving libya, end up actively supporting a system of violence, exploitation and human rights violations.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and i must say that there is a contagious disease which is spreading more and more in the world, and that is the disregard for human rights. the truth is that cynicism, produced by political, economic and commercial hyperrealism, is now trying to overwhelm and destroy the wind of solidarity and rights. i believe that, in the face of the large economic players who increasingly rule the world, the appeal to individual and collective rights is the way forward to prevent everything from being subjected to the natural law of the market. we need to accompany the revolution of equality, the revolution of dignity, which can put more and more at the center the self-determination of the person. the challenges we face are many. we must know and see, and above all deal with it. human rights defenders face discrimination and intimidation and are often killed. the european union must maintain a single position on human rights values, but there are often different positions. europe can have a credible voice if the message it sends is not only shared in a united way, but also if it is able to show a strong consistency in its internal and external policies. the annual report we are voting on is clear on this point and calls on all the institutions of the european union and the member states to put human rights at the centre of the european union's relations with third countries, and we must do so at all times and with regard to everyone.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is past midnight, midnight and two minutes, and we are here to talk about a very important subject, which is the health of citizens. we are here to say stop to those european regulations that poison our citizens every day. no to regulations which are against common sense and against the health of the citizens. we want a europe which works to safeguard the food of our citizens, to safeguard the health of our citizens. we must not have a europe which every day misses the opportunity to make regulations to poison the tables of our citizens and the mouths of our citizens. we are even talking about saving the kebabs tonight, but before saving the kebabs we are thinking of saving the citizens of europe. we've had it! christmas 2017, which is just around the corner, sees what i have in this plate as a gift from this europe. in this dish we have insects: this is the european union's gift to the european citizens in 2017, table bugs for 2018, from january 2018. someone now wants to give phosphate-rich meat as a christmas gift in 2018. we want to give our citizens health, food security. i suggest that the commissioners should set a good example: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council of 14 and 15 december (2017/2858 (rsp)) and on the state of play of the negotiations with the united kingdom (2017/2964 (rsp)). before i give the floor to mr matti maasikas, i should like to inform you that tomorrow, before the european council, i intend to defend parliament's prerogatives, its power of codecision and, in compliance with the treaties, the possibility of taking decisions by qualified majority, with regard to the dublin reform. since parliament has decided to do so in its proposal, i think it is right to proceed in the direction envisaged by the treaty. let us begin the debate then. the first speaker was mr matti maasikas, on behalf of the council.
before i give the floor to first vice-president timmermans on behalf of the european commission, i would like to inform you that president juncker called me and said that he could not be here today because he was busy with negotiations to prepare the council meeting tomorrow, particularly on the brexit issue. i now give the floor to vice-president timmermans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of christian traditions, i would remind you that today is the day of st lucia, patroness of sight, who helps our governments to see the urgency of decisions. i hear that we must wait for the formation of a government in germany: today, germany, yesterday, france and tomorrow, italy. we are facing the dictatorship of the moment, and the dictatorship of the moment is driving away the vision of a stronger europe, with a real governance of the euro area, a treasury and finance ministry, and a capacity to manage migration flows and asylum seekers. this time the commission has put a concrete proposal on the table. we would have liked her to be more ambitious. i refer to the proposal on economic and monetary union: we think, for example, that the logic of the fiscal compact should be reversed and not simply softened, but the proposal does have some positive aspects, such as the establishment of a european monetary fund to help the states in difficulty. but all this must be translated into concrete decisions, and these decisions are firm because the council must wait. i say to president tusk: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposal. we must proceed: we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it in a way that is not too much difficult for the commission. on the brexit: we have done a good job, thanks to parliament's negotiators, the steering group - i won't name them all but we know them well - thanks to the european commission, thanks to our friend michel barnier, the chief negotiator. now, let's not lose momentum, and i say to the british government: i am not going to go into the details of the agreement, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the agreement. are we to assume that this also applies to the irish border? in that case, prime minister may should explain that to her allies in the government. this agreement, as mr barnier has said, contains many positive steps forward, we have protected the rights of british and european citizens and their families, and at a time when many refer to europe as a stepmother, europe has shown itself to be a mother who ensures rights and opportunities. and the same anxieties of the people of the republic of ireland and northern ireland are re-emerging the role of a union that will quell conflict and bring peace, and also the fears of trade unions and workers, the risks of social and environmental dumping, the european union with the negotiation has reminded that europe, the european union, remains a force that protects. finally, i would like to conclude by referring to the joint statement of the three institutions. as vice-president timmermans has said, there are positive elements in this declaration, which is also the product of our initiative as socialists and democrats. but we cannot but express our dissatisfaction with the other points that are missing: the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment. i am well aware that this responsibility does not lie with parliament so much as with the council, which is again the council that is putting the brakes on these things. and all the more reason why these missing priorities must be part of a strong political initiative, in the coming weeks and months, from the whole of the european parliament.
madam president, the progress achieved in the negotiations is an important success for europe, and i would like to congratulate michel barnier and his team. we consider this a sufficient basis for moving on to the second phase. at the same time, we underline that any positive development of the discussion on the future relationship and the transition requires that the commitments defined in the joint report be translated fully and in a timely manner into the draft withdrawal agreement. this includes on ireland, where full regulatory alignment means full regulatory alignment, and our final consent vote is conditional upon this. i’m confident that this drafting exercise –and we will be vigilant on that – will ensure the goal that this parliament has committed to achieve: the full safeguard of the rights of the four and a half million citizens affected by brexit, and the full protection of the life choices that they have made. we are glad to see that, despite some propaganda by some brexiteers, the joint report clearly states that all the rights established by eu law and interpreted by the court of justice shall have direct legal effect through the withdrawal agreement, and that any inconsistent or incompatible rule or national rule set out in the national legislation will be disapplied. and we are proud to have contributed, together with the commission, to broadening the personal scope not only to all family members, but also to all future children. all this is very far from the original uk proposal of ‘settled status’, but this should not be seen as the success of one part over the other, but rather as a common success for all our citizens and for all our common european principles. in order to be consistent with these principles we will insist that the withdrawal agreement should cover both future spouses and the rights of uk citizens to move freely across the eu, and we will be extremely vigilant in order to ensure a really simple and friendly administrative process that doesn’t have to be declaratory in nature.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in its guidelines the council has promised reciprocal, effective, enforceable, non-discriminatory and comprehensive guarantees on citizens' rights. despite the progress made, the preliminary agreement between the negotiators does not yet reflect these characteristics: the european union is a global organisation whose integrity is still compromised by the absence of crucial rights such as the protection of future family members and freedom of movement within the union. the current settled status features run counter to the principles of non-discrimination and reciprocity to the detriment of european citizens in the united kingdom. the commission's openness to possible similar instruments in the member states risks undermining european law itself. the reciprocity and effectiveness of rights are also at risk if the role of the court of justice is not made more precise. important progress has been made, but the second phase of the negotiations will have to fill the many gaps that still exist on northern ireland and the protection of the full set of rights under european law. it is not just a question of legal certainty, but of keeping the promise that nothing will change in the lives of millions of citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate our negotiator, michel barnier, on the excellent result. i would like to return to some of the other issues that have been discussed. in particular, the council should finally approve the first package on the social dimension of the european union, education and culture, following the gothenburg meeting, and i would appreciate that even though we are still far from what we would like. secondly, we also appreciate that a large package of proposals has been made on the euro area: it is good that parliament is the parliament of the euro zone, and we are glad to hear that too, but we must remember that there is still a democratic question in all these matters, plus the question of defence, defence cooperation, the democratic question, and it is the role of parliament in most of these matters that is not on a par with that of the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there have been some curious developments in these debates for some time now. the council is almost always reticent, the commission is often loud - still today, i think in dublin - and receives applause, but increasingly it sounds like a shout to the moon. the council of tomorrow and beyond, in addition to brexit, should address important issues: the european council in copenhagen has already made a number of recommendations on the social pillar, and the emphasis has been on göteborg, but there is a risk that it will remain on paper unless it is accompanied by coherent policies at european level and, above all, by rules and resources which i do not yet see. secondly: immigration and dublin. the european council also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's migration policy is not disrupted by the threat of a crisis. i do not understand how the council can be credible in explaining to the european citizens and in presenting an account of its work which, at the present stage, seems to me to be a very, very bad one.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking mr timmermans and mr barnier, let me say a few words: brexit has also been a dramatic opportunity for millions of young people and students in europe and the uk to rediscover the value and benefits of common european citizenship and the european project. it is therefore important that the eu-uk agreement includes specific protection for young people, students and those involved in european programmes among the rights of citizens. the challenge of immigration also requires us to re-launch european solidarity, and to move beyond dublin, with tusk's distorted voice, but also to open up legal avenues and new euro-mediterranean relations in which young africans will have to play a leading role. we also ask the council to formally adopt the concrete proposals of the gothenburg social summit, in particular, and finally also, education and culture to increase the opportunities for young europeans to study in another country, the creation of university networks with courses in at least two languages, the recognition of diplomas, the adoption of a proposal of mine, which has become a proposal of parliament, the european student card, and an erasmus for young artists after 2020, as well as access for cultural and creative enterprises to the efsi.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the first agreement reached on brexit confirms that leaving the union is not such a big deal. the economic crisis of 2008, from which all of europe is still struggling to recover, was the spark to blame the european union for everything, even for faults not of its own making. the economic crisis, but also some of the inadequacies of the european union, have been exploited by those who, having never played a responsible role, have been able to make an unsatisfied electorate believe that by regaining its sovereignty britain could choose its own destiny, even in a globalised world. but the facts go in the other direction: by its choice, britain has made a leap into the unknown, away from any long-standing political project. however, the union is a project that unites, not divides. we must leave a loophole for when the british want to turn back. we will find that this period will be over when the populists start to quarrel with each other, as my colleague mr farage has already begun to do with british prime minister may.
before the vote, i would like to express my concern about the researcher and professor at the free university of brussels, ahmadreza djalali, who has been sentenced to death by the iranian authorities on charges of espionage. my letter to president rouhani, calling for djalali's release and a fair trial, has so far received no response. now there is a serious risk that djalali may be executed. i renew, i think on behalf of all of you, my appeal to the authorities in tehran not to execute the sentence. on behalf of parliament, i express the strongest condemnation of the death penalty in any circumstances which are contrary to the fundamental values of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you of the terrible situation my region of emilia romagna is currently experiencing because of the bad weather. the flooding of rivers is affecting the whole of europe and parliament will certainly be close to the many affected areas and to the people who are suffering from the effects of the bad weather.
i am grateful to you and i share your concern, not only as an italian but also as the president of parliament, for all the people of europe who have been affected by the bad weather in recent weeks. last week the last king of romania, michael i, died, and i would like to recall his key role in 1944 in bringing his country into the allied camp, and express our closeness to the romanian people and parliament on the death of this figure who represents an important part of the history of romania and our continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to inform the house that i went to ankara last week to attend the trial of the two hdp co-chairs and that a delegation consisting of several national parliamentarians and a european parliamentarian was prevented from entering the chamber by the turkish police. i think that this should be taken into account by the house when discussing relations between the european union and turkey.
i am grateful for the information, mr forenza, and you know how sensitive this house is to the problems of defending democracy and freedom in all countries, but particularly in turkey.
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to inform you that, as part of the meeting of the eu-tunisia joint parliamentary committee, a tunisian delegation, chaired by h.e. mr mohamed fadhel ben omrane, is visiting the european parliament today. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to mr ben omrane and the members of his delegation and to stress the importance we attach to this visit.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the schengen area, as many in this house know, is the largest area of free movement in the world and one of the european union's greatest achievements. a stronger schengen area - i am sure commissioner avramopoulos agrees with this statement - a stronger and more united schengen area improves security and confidence in the european union. if we want to strengthen the protection of our external borders, it is often said in this house that we must strengthen the protection of the external borders. well, if we really want to strengthen the protection of the external borders, then we must extend the schengen area without hesitation to romania, bulgaria and croatia, when croatia is ready. our group, together with the whole socialist family, with the president of the party of european socialists, mr sergej stanisjev, the whole socialist family, and the parliamentary group of the socialists and democrats, have asked for this debate to be given priority because we consider it unfair to exclude romania and bulgaria from the schengen area and, when it is ready, croatia. there can be no a-series and b-series states in the european union. we have always said to our fellow bulgarians, romanians and croats one simple thing: the schengen criteria are respected and the right to join the schengen area is guaranteed. and president juncker will be able to confirm this. the commissioner has already recognised bulgaria and romania as meeting the criteria. so it is not an invention or a request from a parliamentary group, it is an acknowledgement by the european commission. and croatia is on the right track. now, you cannot say on behalf of the council - and i am sorry to always address the council - i am also a little sad to argue, but you deserve it, it is not my bad intention, it is that you do not decide, and i must of necessity take it out on you, if you decide, i would be happy to say: i thank the council of member states. do that, and you will have the appreciation and thanks of the socialists and democrats. do it on the schengen area! do not hesitate, do it in the interests of europe, it is essential for the security of the european union that romania and bulgaria, and then croatia, are part of the schengen area, and so to the bulgarian presidency - i saw the minister, whom i hosted in our group yesterday and whom i greet affectionately - i say to the bulgarian presidency: the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to fulfil their commitments and to integrate them into the schengen area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in this house we are discussing whether to extend and strengthen schengen, whether to allow the free movement of people within the european union without any border controls. i am saying quite clearly that border controls must be carried out, and i am going further: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. or have you forgotten the attacks in paris, brussels, nice, london, barcelona? have you forgotten the hundreds of people who died because of murderous fanaticism, because of islamic terrorism? this guy is luca russo, or was luca russo. he was 25 years old, an engineer, he lived in bassano del grappa, a few kilometers from my house. on august 17 he was in barcelona with his fiancée marta. marta came back injured, he died. luca russo's family begged me never to forget this boy. luca russo's friends have asked me to do everything i can to stop these bastards! to intervene to stop this islamic terrorism. this is my plea to you: we have to stop these terrorists, we have to stop islamic terrorism, the invasion, the immigrants that are coming. we need to check the borders. schengen must be suspended, you must rethink schengen, we must close the borders, we must stop this invasion. it is not enough to be silent for a few minutes, it is not enough to demonstrate: we need to rethink schengen.
i am sorry, mr president, but the rules of procedure give you the power to reject the statements made about you, not to reopen the debate. so you have denied the claims that you are ignorant of schengen matters and the matter can be closed. thank you, your honor. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the implementation of the social pillar (2017/2974 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was in 2015 that, in this very house, mr juncker, the president of the commission, put forward the idea of creating the social pillar. and on november 17th, two years later, after a long gestation period, in a big dustbin, in a big pump, at gothenburg we finalized the creation of a container, nothing more. it is a fine vessel, but today we have to fill it with concrete proposals and effective measures. a very important instrument, which must guarantee social justice, must provide hope for all those citizens who today, within the european union, see their rights and protection increasingly undermined, from the essential ones, such as housing, food, clothing, wages and employment. we have an important task to perform today, which is to make it a tool, a basis, a really solid instrument, a vessel full of concrete proposals. the commission will probably give us the proposal for some directives; that is the basis for giving concrete answers. europe is asking for hope, it is thirsting for hope, it is thirsting for social justice. i think that it is a commitment to start putting legislative proposals in writing that give a real dimension to the need for hope. parliament has already expressed its views on the need to create this pillar of upward convergence. the document we have been working on with mrs rodríguez is fundamental, and i will never tire of saying that i believe that the european guarantee of a minimum income is an effective instrument, which can enable millions of citizens living in poverty and social exclusion to be able to guarantee a decent life. i believe that upward convergence is about thinking that rules don't apply to some and are interpreted by others. mr trebesius, i come from a country which has a vision, in your eyes, that is not positive. yet what do we want to do with the surplus from germany? when will your country decide to take responsibility for the macroeconomic imbalances it has caused in other states? we need upward convergence, yes, but we need social justice. so the rules must apply to everyone, my country will respect them, because it is right and necessary, but it is also necessary that other countries, those which for years and in a thousand different ways have been damaging to certain economies, take responsibility for putting an end to certain practices and policies which are certainly damaging to the economies of others, who unfortunately today live in conditions of poverty and social exclusion. i am not arguing against it, but i firmly believe that solidarity is a principle on which the european parliament was founded and must be respected.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me thank you first of all for this vital debate. let me continue if you will allow me, dear mr president, in my mother tongue – in dutch – because i know that we have a perfect interpretation service here. de proclamatie van de europese pijler van sociale rechten, beste collega's, is uiteindelijk, zoals we allemaal weten, een begin. het is een goede zaak dat we hier vandaag een goed debat voeren, omdat we uiteindelijk hier moeten voortbouwen aan een sociaal europa. we moeten samen discussiëren over de volgende stappen. ik zie dit debat van vandaag als een start van dat debat. we hebben ambitieuze doelen gesteld, zeer zeker. we hebben gezegd dat we meer convergentie in europa willen, dat we opwaartse convergentie in europa willen, dat wil zeggen betere arbeids- en levensomstandigheden voor onze burgers. we hebben ook gezegd dat we met onze pijler onze sociale instellingen willen aanpassen aan de omstandigheden van de 21ste eeuw, om ervoor te zorgen dat we een competitieve, een dynamische, maar ook een inclusieve markteconomie hebben, dat we een sociale-markteconomie kunnen uitbouwen die het mogelijk maakt voor onze mensen om goede kansen te hebben en te kunnen nemen op het vlak van vorming, opleiding, levenslang leren, toegang tot de arbeidsmarkt, faire arbeidsomstandigheden en toegang tot sociale zekerheid, tot sociale bescherming en aangepaste toegankelijke, betaalbare basisdiensten. dat is onze ambitie, niet meer en niet minder. en we moeten dat natuurlijk doen met respect voor de interne markt, dat laat geen twijfel. de interne markt is trouwens een troef om dat waar te maken. vele collega's hebben in het debat gezegd dat we de subsidiariteit miskennen, dat we op het terrein van de lidstaten komen. aan al die collega's die daarover opmerkingen gemaakt hebben, zou ik willen vragen de preambule bij de pijler te lezen. kijk naar punt 17 en 18 in de overwegingen en dan zal u zien wat het kader is dat we samen afgesproken hebben. we moeten dat samen waarmaken. wij veranderen niets aan de bevoegdheidsverdeling, maar dat betekent dat het belang van samenwerken des te groter is en daarom is het ook goed dat we de europese pijler van sociale rechten met de drie politieke instellingen samen geproclameerd hebben. dat betekent ook dat we samen verantwoordelijkheid moeten nemen, ieder op zijn terrein, en dat we daar in de toekomst ook werk van moeten maken. er zijn ook nogal wat opmerkingen geweest over het feit dat de commissie aan de economische kant niet goed weet wat ze aan de sociale kant wil en omgekeerd. laat me er toch op wijzen dat we een duidelijk bewuste aanpak gekozen hebben van bij de start van deze commissie. dat geldt voor het belastingbeleid, het budgettair beleid, ons handelsbeleid en de manier waarop we omgaan met de sociale partners. op het vlak van belastingbeleid verwijs ik naar de talrijke voorstellen die al gedaan zijn door mijn collega's die bevoegd zijn voor belastingbeleid, moscovici en andere. deze voorstellen worden trouwens door de hele commissie gesteund, door de beslissingen die genomen zijn door collega vestager, om ervoor te zorgen dat we faire belastingen krijgen, dat de belastingen niet geërodeerd worden. we gebruiken maximaal de bevoegdheden die we daartoe hebben. deze commissie voert een slim budgettair beleid. we maken maximaal gebruik van de flexibiliteit die er in het stabiliteits- en groeipact is en we spreken met de lidstaten, zodat we niet moeten overgaan tot straffen. daar gaat het ons niet om, wel dat we de lidstaten maximaal aanmoedigen om een duurzaam begrotingsbeleid te voeren. want laat ons toch ook dat niet vergeten: zonder duurzame fiscale omstandigheden kunnen we ook geen duurzaam sociaal beleid uitbouwen. wat handel betreft, nodig ik u uit om te kijken naar de nieuwe handelsakkoorden die onder deze commissie gesloten zijn. u zal zien dat er heel wat meer aandacht is voor het sociale en voor een aantal aspecten die onze burgers terecht van ons verwachten. er is meer transparantie en er wordt ook meer aandacht besteed aan een aantal aspecten die vroeger misschien een beetje aan de kant geschoven waren. en wat betreft de sociale partners, de sociale dialoog, wil ik erop wijzen dat deze commissie een grote inspanning geleverd heeft en blijft leveren om de sociale dialoog opnieuw te lanceren en om aan capaciteitsopbouw te doen in de lidstaten de sociale dialoog op gang moet worden gebracht of moet worden bevorderd. wij raadplegen ook de sociale partners op veel meer vlakken dan we verplicht zijn volgens het verdrag en we doen dat ook graag omdat we hun toegevoegde waarde, zowel voor de design als de implementatie van ons beleid heel erg appreciëren. mijnheer de voorzitter, beste collega's van het parlement, mijnheer de voorzitter van de raad, de proclamatie van de pijler stuurt een heel duidelijke boodschap. dat is een boodschap van eenheid, een boodschap van hoop en een boodschap van actie. een boodschap van eenheid, dat we in europa weten wat we samen willen en dezelfde waarden verdedigen, de waarden die we samen geproclameerd hebben. de raad met een mandaat van alle 28 lidstaten en de andere instellingen hebben samen die pijler geproclameerd. dat is een teken dat we dezelfde waarden verdedigen en we moeten nu bewijzen dat we dat ook doen. de verantwoordelijkheid daarvoor ligt bij elk van diegenen die deze pijler heeft ondertekend en geproclameerd. het is ook een teken van hoop, want het geeft hoop aan de mensen dat we de zaken aanpakken, dat we weten dat de toekomst in onze handen ligt en dat wij, als we een goed beleid voeren, die toekomst vorm kunnen geven op zo'n manier dat alle mensen er kunnen op rekenen dat we alle veranderingen in de samenleving en in de economie begeleiden en dat ze zelf, en ook hun kinderen, nog een goede toekomst hebben. het is ook een boodschap van actie, omdat we gezamenlijke verantwoordelijkheid genomen hebben. dit moet een boost geven aan iedereen om effectief te handelen naar de woorden die men zelf heeft geproclameerd. dat is ook de sfeer, beste collega's, die ik hier vandaag in dit debat heb gevoeld en dat sterkt mij om, wat mij betreft, ook verder vanuit de commissie werk te maken van de uitvoering van die pijler. want het komt er uiteindelijk op aan dat we die pijler realiseren op het terrein. we hebben veel beloofd en we zullen er nu allemaal samen werk van moeten maken. als we onze belofte nakomen, ieder op zijn terrein, en als we allemaal samen ambassadeurs zijn van die pijler, dan moet ons dat lukken. dat is de opdracht die ons te wachten staat. zoals gezegd, die pijler is een begin en is geen eindpunt. het hangt af van ons wat we daarvan maken, maar ik ben optimistisch.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner and the honourable members for a very rich and timely debate. it is clearer than ever that the european pillar of social rights is a widely supported initiative. it will bring about tangible improvements in the living and working conditions of our citizens thanks to the engaged involvement of all stakeholders at all levels. when it comes to the implementation of the social pillar, account needs to be taken of the different starting positions and situations of the member states. the country-specific recommendations in the framework of the european semester offer essential instruments for ensuring that all member states strive towards the same goals. the european pillar of social rights gives a solid embodiment to our common values within the eu. it is reassuring to note that there is a broad consensus across the union and its institutions on these values.
in writing. i 'll never tire of saying it: it is essential that the union should reduce the economic and social gap between its member states, starting with the mediterranean regions and the lagging regions. this is the only way to create the conditions for a genuine european citizenship, to create a more united and stronger europe. in this sense, i believe that the gothenburg summit sent a clear message, inviting us to face up to the enormous differences that still mark the reality of european citizens, from the search for jobs, to opportunities for women and for new businesses, to assistance for the most vulnerable citizens. the welfare systems of the member states are facing entirely new challenges today. europe must lead this process, respecting the specificities of the different cultures but aiming at a single objective: the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 december called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the union is able to contribute to the development of a new global economy, based on fair opportunities and inclusive, sustainable and harmonious growth. the consultation of the social partners was at the heart of the final drafting of the european pillar of social rights. its implementation must also be inclusive and shared, and must focus on the needs of young people and work.
in writing. the european pillar of social rights was proclaimed in gothenburg on 17 november. this is a step in the right direction, as the european institutions have committed themselves to placing the social dimension at the centre of their agenda. but now it is time to put words to work. to do this, it is necessary, first, that the list of 20 principles and rights should become a concrete instrument for influencing the social policies of the member states. this can be done through the european semester instrument and the inclusion of social indicators in the specific recommendations to member states. secondly, it is essential that the pillar becomes a tool for the relaunch of concrete eu legislative initiatives in the field of social policies. the commission's proposal for a directive on work-life balance and a revision of the directives on contracts, working time and posted workers is therefore welcome. finally, for the pillar to become an effective instrument, it is essential that it becomes a tool for a review of the economic governance of the euro area. in this respect, the idea of a social scoreboard is good, but as s&d we propose more incisive measures, starting with a 'common european scheme against unemployment'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the publication of the eurostat report on monitoring progress on the sdgs is good news, but we are still far from the monitoring and review mechanisms we need for effective implementation of the sdgs. we are still waiting for the union to come up with a comprehensive strategy for implementing the 2030 agenda, a strategy that looks to the future, not to the trend of the last 15 years, a strategy based on a careful analysis of the gaps. we need more than red lights and green arrows, we need effective deadlines, targets and indicators. two examples: to welcome a 0.09 percent increase in official development assistance at the european level since 2011 is a travesty. we're talking about resources that are needed now, not after 2030, as well as using gdp as the only indicator for sustainable economic growth, and i could go on. progress in one area does not necessarily mean that we are on the right track, and in some cases, reasoning without quantitative targets on the basis of mere percentage increases can be very misleading. we have set ourselves a deadline of 2030, and unfortunately few politicians are working on a time horizon that goes beyond the next election, but here we have to make an effort. the 2030 agenda is unique, it is universal and the goals are deeply interconnected, this requires us to respond to new challenges, new challenges that we can only respond to with new data, innovative indicators and new monitoring tools. the report therefore does not allow us to draw any conclusions on the actual possibility that the union will be able to maintain the commitments it has made under agenda 2030. a careful analysis of the impact of union policies on sustainable development is lacking, which is essential to develop a comprehensive implementation strategy at european level. finally, something that should make us think: the report shows that on issues such as the fight against poverty, hunger and inequality, the european union is lagging far behind, let us not forget that we are all developing countries on these new objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of eurostat data on the current situation in europe with regard to the 17 sustainable development objectives reveals a not very encouraging picture. some progress, few indeed, has been made in the area of sustainability, especially with regard to the environment, clean energy, responsible consumption and production, health and welfare, but too little has been made in the area of social progress. the quality of education, employment and the fight against poverty, hunger and inequality have not made significant progress, and this means that we are leaving behind too many large sections of the population of the european union. the social pillar initiative is therefore welcome, provided it is not just a declaration of intent. unfortunately, due to lack of data, we are not able to make an assessment on some of the most important sustainable development goals: fight against climate change, peace and justice. as i have said elsewhere, we need to improve our monitoring systems to ensure that badly defined policies are not reviewed because of the impossibility of fact checking.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for his words and i thank the council as well. i'm sure we'll do a good job this time, too. i particularly agree with the commissioner when he says that perhaps this is the new normal in which we are living. it is no coincidence that every time we have been in this house to discuss these matters, commissioner, a natural disaster has just occurred or was in progress. fortunately, it was not as bad as the others, but a wave of bad weather has also hit europe, and italy in particular, in recent days. we still have, for example, in emilia romagna and other regions, thousands of displaced people, disrupted communications, enormous damage. we have seen that the european union's efforts, even if effective, are not enough, especially when, as you said, several countries are facing the same catastrophe, the same disaster, at the same time. well, we need this review. we need to increase our capacity to act quickly and effectively, but above all we need to strengthen prevention and preparedness, which are the basis, as you said, but are also the best way to prevent the loss of human lives and the huge losses, including economic losses. so we have to work on that and improve access to structural funds, all the support we can. let us not forget that securing our territories is also a huge economic driver, so it is absolutely win-win for us. i therefore thank the commissioner for his proposal: let us remember that the people want this.
i thank you for your congratulations, and i remind you that you must use the blue card to ask questions of the speaker in the chamber, but i understand the exception of the moment. thank you again. i have the floor to speak to mr van nistelrooij.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, congratulations on your election as vice-president. disasters are becoming more frequent and complex across europe. the effects of climate change have hit many member states hard in recent years. only a few months ago portugal and italy, in particular, were faced with a record number of summer fires. in the face of this, the current disaster response instruments are limited and often unable to provide rapid assistance to member states during a crisis, because the current production mechanism is based on a voluntary system and on additional capacity that member states can offer to another country in need. the creation of a system that can increase the eu's disaster response capabilities is certainly a step in the right direction, increasing integration and solidarity among member countries. however, prevention and preparedness remain the cornerstones of an effective response to natural disasters. by focusing funding on these two activities, we will be able to increase our risk management capabilities, minimize economic damage, but above all avoid precious loss of human life.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the minister and colleagues for their support, first of all because i realise, for these very constructive discussions, that we are in the same boat and we can work together in order to proceed for these proposals to be legislation in our institutions. i took careful note of your remarks and ideas. as i said in the beginning of my intervention, this demonstrates this parliament’s active interest in and commitment to these proposals. recent disasters were damaging but they taught us several lessons. firstly, they showed that our collective combined capacities to respond to disasters are not enough when large-scale disasters happen; we have to be frank. secondly, they showed the limitation of the current purely voluntary system. this is the hard reality. finally, of course, they showed that the negative impact of disasters would have been reduced if effective preventive actions had been in place. as you said, prevention is better than cure. it is as simple as that. we have to focus on prevention and preparedness in order, of course, to save lives, but also to reduce our costs. at the same time, there is also some good news. we are not starting from scratch. we have a lot of accumulated knowledge and experience because of the current system, and through rescue we work towards maximum efficiency with minimum bureaucracy. we don’t need more bureaucracy. we have to find ways to reach maximum efficiency with minimum bureaucracy; this is very important for all of us and this is why i strongly believe that rescue is a cost-effective and cost-efficient system. through rescue we can provide tangible european solidarity to our citizens, not in theory but in action. action that helps save lives, livelihoods and of course our environment. remember that rescue is first of all about economies of scale. it is very simple to understand this. secondly, it is a tool to directly help our citizens in very critical times of floods, forest fires, epidemics and earthquakes and, as i have already highlighted, a cost-effective way to ensure coordination and a harmonised approach to prevention and preparedness. some of you raised the issue about the national risk management plans and the risk reduction plan. at present our european union civil protection mechanism is not responsible for the national risk reduction plan. it is a national competence. now, through rescue, we can find ways to fund this cooperation between our services and national services in order to increase and to improve the national plans for management and risk reduction. through rescue we can improve ourselves across europe. during the terrible forest fires in portugal last october – and our colleagues from portugal know well the situation in portugal at that time – jean-claude juncker said that europe must and should offer more than condolences during natural disasters. he asked all of us for immediate and concrete action. i strongly believe that we can provide our citizens with more than condolences. we are all aware that the next disasters can happen at any time in any country, because no country is immune and self-reliance should not be taken for granted. it is an illusion for anyone to believe that any country can face alone the size of the current natural disasters because of climate change. thank you again for your support. i am sure you understand the importance and the urgency of adopting the proposal. it is for this reason that i count on your swift action. i strongly believe that we can work together in order to persuade anyone who, until now, may show some reluctance, but we have powerful arguments in order to convince them that this is very important for europe, for our citizens, to save lives and livelihoods.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the civil protection mechanism is a concrete expression of european solidarity, and it is a priority for us. happy to hear that this is the case for the council, for the commission and indeed for the european parliament. i didn’t expect it to be any other way. we in the council will look at the commission’s proposal with great attention. we will work swiftly, but we are taking the necessary time to deliver a rock solid mechanism – better than the current one. in the meantime, nevertheless, we owe it to our citizens that no effort is spared to improve our member states’ capacities, as well as our collective capacities, to better prevent and to quickly react within the current framework.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the eu-wide ban on nazi and fascist symbols and slogans (2017/3007 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, you have invited the presidency to speak on behalf of the council on the topic of an eu-wide ban on nazi and fascist symbols and slogans. i am grateful for the opportunity to be here and to present our views on this topic. this discussion is important for several reasons. first of all, reports from the eu agency for fundamental rights, the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe confirm an alarming increase of intolerance and hatred in europe. there might be several reasons explaining this worrying phenomenon, but let me be clear on this, there is no justification for it. secondly, we notice an increasing use of nazi and fascist symbols on social media platforms but also in public, both online and offline. this shows that some of our citizens have not learnt from history. as we know, this can be very dangerous. those who forget mistakes of their own history risk repeating them. we are therefore obliged to take all incidents of that kind seriously and never ignore them. on a positive note, the eu has adopted specific legislation on combating intolerance and hatred. i refer in particular to the 2008 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. in june 2016 the council invited member states to ensure the effective transposition and implementation of the framework decision and other relevant hate crime laws at national level. in addition, it asked member states to develop effective methods to report and ensure proper recording of hate crimes. according to this legislation specific offences exist when directed against a group of persons, or a member of such a group, defined by reference to race, colour, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin. they include, among others, public incitement to violence or hatred, public dissemination or distribution of propaganda material and images. i have already mentioned that social media is one of the main vehicles enabling hate speech to go viral. one possible remedy against this epidemic is a harmonised and determined european response. as for the steps taken in the council, the estonian presidency and the previous maltese and slovak presidencies have done important work to tackle these issues. in october the council conclusions on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights in 2016 were adopted, where the council welcomes the measures coordinated by the commission high-level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. we also welcome and support the ongoing eu-level dialogue with major it companies to address hate speech online, also through the implementation of the code of conduct launched by the commission for this purpose. last but not least, we should remember and commend the remarkable work done by the fundamental rights agency in this field. but all these countermeasures would be in vain if we forget the important role of education and youth work, and more precisely the need to develop democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance, critical thinking and conflict resolution skills in the learning process. to sum up, we have different tools: we have knowledge, education, counter-narratives, but also condemnation of any form of anti-semitic or anti-muslim violence, hate speech or discrimination. accordingly the responsibility rests with all of us: politicians, teachers, civil servants, students, parents, and if needed also judges and prosecutors. no one can close their eyes or ears and pretend not to see injustice, discrimination or hatred. i would like to conclude by stressing how important it is to prevent our societies from becoming dominated by hatred. our role, and on this i know i can count on your support, is to remind ourselves of our responsibility for what we say. words and symbols have power, including the power to harm. for this reason, freedom of expression has its limits. it is our common responsibility to find the right balance, and this is never an easy task.
member of the commission. – mr president, we all know, and we are proud of it, that the european union is built upon common values of human dignity, fundamental rights, equality, rule of law and democracy. the commission shares the concerns of parliament over the worrying trends in the rise of racist and xenophobic attitudes, which sadly have found their way into mainstream politics and mainstream media. under the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law the member states must ensure that public incitement to violence or hatred, including through the use of nazi and fascist symbols and slogans, is criminalised under national law. national law enforcement and judicial authorities are responsible for investigating and prosecuting any such instance. the commission rigorously monitors the application of this legislation. in the past couple of years nine member states have made amendments to their respective criminal laws in order to bring them in line. the commission will continue to work on reducing the remaining gaps in national legislation, but laws are only as good as they are effectively implemented in practice. this is why the commission has been stepping up its efforts to assist member states to build the capacity to ensure the effective implementation of the law, but also to support targeted measures to prevent and tackle intolerance in practice. this includes the work of the eu high level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. the eu high level group was set up in 2016 to foster discussions and synergies between member states, civil society and other key stakeholders with a view to improving responses, including guidance on how to train police and judicial authorities on hate speech and hate crime, and guidance on how to ensure adequate support and protection for hate crime victims. the commission has been leading major initiatives such as the code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online. the recent guidance communication on tackling illegal content online adopted by the commission in september also provides key impetus for further progress in this area. continued efforts are also being devoted to initiatives on remembrance. as the commission remarked in its statement on the europe-wide day of remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes on 23 august, it is essential not only to remember the victims of these regimes but also to use remembrance as a guide for the future so as not to repeat mistakes and let discrimination and hatred spread again. i used to say that history does not really repeat itself; men repeat history very simply because they do not read it and they do not draw lessons from what has happened in the past. this is why the commission strongly reaffirmed on that occasion the rejection of totalitarian and authoritarian ideologies such as nazism and fascism. it is crucial to remember past horrors in order to give us the knowledge and strength to reject those who seek to revive these heinous ideologies.
the european union is a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of a great europe, but also a great europe. we have made our differences no longer the cause of division, but the foundation of our being together on common values, built over centuries. values such as democracy, human rights, freedom of thought and the rule of law. we have come to deny these values in history, through the devastating experience of dictatorships and nazism. that is why our union today is the exact opposite of what fascism has been throughout history. that's why nazism is not an opinion, it's not a normal exercise of freedom of expression, but rather its opposite: it is a crime, a crime which cannot be confined to a particular historical moment. as primo levi said, mr president, every age has its fascism: it begins by spreading in many subtle ways the nostalgia for a world where order reigned supreme and where the security of the privileged few rested on the forced labor and the forced silence of the many. order and cleanliness: fascism starts like that. from the rehabilitation of language capable of causing deep divisions in society, the propagation of ideas which incite to the suppression of democracy, the criminalization of diversity and oppression, mr president, can never be regarded as a simple exercise of freedom of expression. we are free to express our thoughts, precisely because we put an end to nazism, which was and still is a source of violence. some feel that this is all just a matter of folklore from the distant past. but we must have a strong historical memory to be able to look to the future without making the mistakes of the past, and to banish nazism, condemn its apologetics, relegate its symbols to museums and history, not to deny freedom to others, but to guarantee that of all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good luck to the president. italy, the country from which i come, has one of the most beautiful constitutions in the world. the constitution born of the resistance to nazi-fascism and signed by a communist, umberto terracini. in italy, the re-establishment of the fascist party is explicitly forbidden. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have always said that anti-fascism is a current problem, and we said it when you accused us of using anti-fascism as an old iron, as a purely ideological weapon. anti-fascism is current and has always been for us; i regret that the majority governing the european union, the neoliberal majority, has not noticed this, favouring the growth of nazism and fascism, favouring it by its collusion with the ukrainian government of poroshenko and its presence and connections with the banderists, by the shameful equation, and i close, between communism and fascism. the red army helped to liberate europe from nazism. and again, by re-enacting the libyan camps with episodes that are truly reminiscent of nazism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good work, mr president. in recent months we have seen a dangerous resurgence of fascism in europe, a worrying escalation of incidents which should not be underestimated. it is not a matter of isolated incidents and childish things, as someone sitting in this chamber would have us believe by minimizing their magnitude. in italy alone, within a few days there were very serious incidents: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union, and to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union. as in italy, so in the rest of europe the outbreak of hatred, xenophobia and fascism is reaching alarming levels. the european union must take a more decisive and firm stance, including on social media. the eu charter of rights must also apply to all social partners, regardless of their location. apologizing for fascism is a crime here, but not on facebook: we need to block pages that incite hatred and fascism: in italy alone there are more than 300 according to the national association of partisans. the union has risen from the ashes of the tragedies of the world wars and the horrors of nazi and fascist ideology. the union must therefore react, not just the institutions, the parties and the associations, but all citizens, we must all mobilise. it is about the future of democracy and the future we want to leave to future generations. we strongly reject any fascist regurgitation.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: question with request for an oral reply to the council on the right of inquiry of danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, of the european parliament (o-000089/2017 - b8-0613/2017) (2017/2993(rsp) and question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the right of inquiry of danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, of the european parliament (o-000090/2017 - b8-0614/2017) (2017/2993(rsp)).
in writing. the european parliament's right of inquiry is currently governed by an interinstitutional decision on the "modalities for the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry" adopted on 19 april 1995. it is an interinstitutional agreement which is binding only on the contracting parties and therefore has no erga omnes legal effect. for this reason too, the adoption of a new legislative instrument, in particular a regulation, would be a major step forward which would strengthen the role of the european parliament, the only european institution to have direct popular legitimacy. the call for strengthening parliament's powers of inquiry is also more necessary than ever in the light of recent tax scandals and not only that, in an increasingly globalised world, they go beyond the sovereignty of any single state. it is therefore essential to break the institutional impasse which has developed between the council and the commission. it is unacceptable that, despite the fact that the rapporteur has tried to reach agreement with six council presidencies, no common solution has been found. this is not only inconsistent with the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions, but it is also an irresponsible and deeply anti-european behaviour which benefits those who do not respect the rules.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs corazza bildt for her commitment to this directive. according to interpol data, in europe, an estimated 18 million children are victims of sexual abuse: it's a real emergency. the directive is focused on strengthening penalties and criminalising a wide range of abuses that are facilitated by the use of computerised tools, such as the online harassment of minors and the viewing of child pornography. in order to stop the distribution of such material, the directive requires member states to take the necessary measures to ensure the timely removal of web pages containing or disseminating child pornography. the member states must take steps to have these pages removed and blocked. it's not about political ideology, but it's a categorical imperative to protect our children from these criminals. i welcome this measure, which gives greater weight to the protection of victims and identifies the main obstacle to these offenders in the criminal law common to the member states. neil postman, an american author, says that children are the living message that we can send to a future that we will not see. then let's protect our children, protect and safeguard our future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs anna maria corazza bildt for her excellent report. the directive on the sexual abuse and exploitation of children online is an issue on which the european union can and must make a strong push to ensure that all member states adopt systems and measures to effectively combat such very serious abuses. it is particularly welcome that the report calls on the member states to adopt rules to prevent and combat new forms of crime, such as cyberbullying and revenge porn, which have sometimes led young people and even very young people to commit suicide. it also calls on member states to put in place adequate human and financial resources, to invest in innovative technological solutions to identify perpetrators of crime, and to increase cooperation through greater use of joint investigation teams. but we also need to develop educational and awareness programmes for children and their parents to prevent the risks of the net, and to promote initiatives to avoid so-called secondary victimization, that is, attitudes of reproach or blame which cause so much suffering in the victims.
mr. chairman, i want to thank the rapporteur for a really great report. i remember when i was discussing the proposal for this directive in the council of justice ministers in 2010 and 2011. i had the opportunity to represent the czech republic at the time, and the debate was very general, and many countries were more or less reluctant to accept this legislation. we've made tremendous progress since then, and this debate here today shows that. i very much welcome the report drawn up by the rapporteur, which contains a number of valuable suggestions for how to tighten up existing legislation and a specific directive in the future. i would strongly urge, commissioner, that we really address the specific suggestions and proposals contained in the rapporteur's report. the question of sharing information on offenders between member states, the question of blocking websites, the question of better opportunities for victims of crime to report abuse, these are the things that would be worth considering if the directive should not be amended in the future and these things should not be regulated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very grateful to mrs anna maria corazza bildt, with whom i share, along with other colleagues, the experience of the intergroup on children, for this very comprehensive and beautiful report. this was a much-awaited report by the commission, six years after the directive, but the results are still rather inadequate and still leopard-shaped, while the picture of this transnational crime has worsened, since, as the internet watch foundation data show last april, internet domains now host 60 percent of web pages with images of child sexual abuse, an increase of 19 percent over the previous year. commissioner avramopoulos is right when he says that the commission will have to take a strong initiative to get the member states to comply with the rules and measures of the directive, because it is a criminal offence, and therefore we have to deal with it with zero tolerance, multidisciplinarity, strengthen cooperation and information between member states, but also between police and law enforcement authorities, in particular for investigations, for criminal prosecution, for the protection of victims, for the block, which was adopted by only half of the member states, and for the immediate removal of online material. i hope that the avms directive will be adopted soon, which, thanks to our amendments - but the trilogue is still ongoing - provides for an obligation for video-sharing platforms to have effective mechanisms for reporting and immediate and permanent removal of such content. but that is not the case today, and many children, including in my country, are driven to suicide because of it. member states must also make it a crime to harass and cyber stalk minors. i 'll just say this: but today we have had some positive experiences. i can only name one: the italian postal police, for 20 years, has had a special unit dedicated only to these crimes. i hope that these experiences can become a common heritage.
in writing. the annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions is generally satisfactory. the report also stresses the need to improve the institutional response to complaints and to further develop the right to petition. the aim is to increase the overall influence of citizens in eu decision-making. it is comprehensively emphasised that petitions are a useful tool for identifying not only breaches of eu law but also gaps and contradictions in eu law with regard to the objective of ensuring the protection of citizens' fundamental rights. their participation and involvement is the main resource for building a more legitimate eu that is more responsive to their needs and expectations.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable, low-emission mobility is one of the key elements of the broader transition to a new model of development that europe needs to remain competitive and create new and good jobs. greenhouse gas emissions from transport account for a quarter of total emissions, are constantly increasing and are the main cause of air pollution. the opinion of the envi committee, of which i was rapporteur, and which has been incorporated in its entirety in this report, examines the emissions of all the main means of transport: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on biofuels and bioliquids, in particular by ensuring that the union's policy on biofuels and bioliquids is consistent with the union's policy on biofuels and bioliquids. in the case of cars and vans, it calls for ambitious co2 targets for 2025 and for the development of a road test to calculate real emissions. for heavy vehicles, an important new feature: after years of fruitless debate, we will finally have a regulation by 2018 on the monitoring, certification and publication of data on emissions and consumption of heavy goods vehicles, and a proposal for emission limits to follow. the commission is also called upon to adopt an ambitious action plan for the introduction of electric vehicles on the market. finally, we call for a coordinated eu-wide type-approval and market surveillance system to overcome the shortcomings highlighted by 'dieselgate', by reducing the compliance factor for nitrogen oxide emissions to 1 by 2021.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for the invitation to discuss our european strategy for low-emission mobility. the commission warmly welcomes parliament’s report and i would personally like to thank the rapporteur, mr bas eickhout, and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report. as highlighted in president juncker’s state of the union address in september, we should strive to become the world leader in the fight against climate change. the transition to a modern and low-carbon economy is a key political priority for the commission. we need to address this challenge of climate change and at the same time, we must strive to extend the competitive edge of our industries, generate sustainable economic growth and jobs, and drive innovation in clean technologies. transport is responsible for almost a quarter of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions and contributes significantly to air pollution. if we were to do nothing, the sector would become the largest emitter of co2 emissions after 2030. low-emission mobility is therefore absolutely essential to meet our commitments under the cop 21 paris agreement and also to meet the 2030 energy and climate goals we agreed on. a well-defined eu strategy for the transport sector is essential, and it must cover all three core areas: first, higher efficiency of the transport system; second, low-emission alternative energy for transport; and third, low and zero-emission vehicles. by making our transport network more efficient, we can reduce the energy consumed, cut journey times and better serve the end user. there is a massive potential to make this happen by encouraging multimodal transport solutions and digitalisation. we have already adopted in the past months a series of measures to foster the attractiveness of the most environmentally friendly modes of transport, specifically railways and inland navigation. the commission also proposed recently additional measures to avoid empty runs in road freight operations, as well as in favour of combined transport and public transport by buses and coaches. we count on parliament to support those initiatives. on alternative energy however, it is not just about transport efficiency. the second area we are tackling is that of energy. promoting alternative energy sources for transport is essential. at present, 94% of transport energy is still derived from oil. this means high emissions and dependency on imports. to speed up the transition to alternative energy, the commission has proposed recasting the renewable energy directive. we have a clear expectation that the proposed gradual reduction of conventional crop-based biofuels and increase of advanced biofuels will promote the development and deployment of innovative advanced renewable fuels. we are also actively supporting the deployment of alternative fuel infrastructures, such as recharging stations for electric cars, with financial support, consumer information and standardisation activities. to stimulate electro mobility, it is crucial to ensure the interoperability of electric vehicle charging. recharging an electric vehicle should be as easy as refuelling a conventional car. with regards to zero and low-emission vehicles, which brings me to the third area, eu fuel efficiency standards for cars and vans have proven to be a strong driver for innovation and efficiency in vehicles. but emissions need to be reduced even further. this is why the commission proposed, as part of its second mobility package, ambitious and realistic co2 emission targets for cars and vans, while incentivising the further deployment of zero and low-emission vehicles. we also proposed additional measures to speed up market uptake and to accompany public authorities’ efforts in this respect. action is also needed to reduce emissions from heavy duty vehicles and this will be proposed next year by the commission in its third mobility package. let me conclude: only together can we make the implementation of this strategy a success. with the clean energy for all europeans package, the europe on the move package and the clean mobility package, the commission has already put forward proposals covering a large part of the action agenda of this strategy. we now very much count on your continued constructive support to the low-emissions strategy and the various initiatives that flow from it. i am looking forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. it was a work which allowed us all to delve into one of the most crucial, most decisive issues for the effective implementation of the paris agreement, cop21, but it was also a very frank work, in which some differences were highlighted. we have identified a method of achieving the objective that interests us all, namely to ensure that, even if we start from different cultural positions, cop21 does not remain a theoretical objective on paper. and unfortunately the analysis made in the rapporteur's opening speech is also correct when he says that the commission has added messages at cop21 that are sometimes too theoretical. but to give substance to all this, we cannot think that this substance depends on equally theoretical targets, we cannot think of inserting targets to the right and left, deluding ourselves that this is the way to give substance to cop21. we have to answer a fundamental question: transport is central to this question being answered. we have emerging countries where there is a growing demand for energy: india, right now, has implemented a policy that will bring massive investment in nuclear and renewables by 2040. but despite this, by 2040 india will still have 60 percent of its energy produced through coal. and as of today, there are 400 million people in india who don't have access to electricity. so, you don't make targets in europe on electric cars to solve the problem that was not solved by cop21. it is a global policy implemented within the wto, where we give the possibility to allow emerging economies to implement a development policy that meets their energy demand through renewable, sustainable sources. europe is not the protagonist of this response. europe is a contributor to a response that must be given at global level.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report certainly contains a number of positive elements, such as the emphasis on the promotion and development of alternative mobility technologies, primarily electric, tax incentives for zero-emission vehicles and, in parallel, the gradual elimination of economic incentives for fossil fuels. we are, however, careful to ensure that the ambitious timetables for achieving all this are actually achieved. intermediate steps in the short and medium term should also be set to achieve the 2020 and 2035 targets. the indication to promote green public procurement is also good. but let us not forget that a real transition to sustainable sources must take into account both the direct and indirect aspects of the use of an energy source. so it would be much better to diversify sustainable mobility solutions, rather than just focus on electric. and we also bear in mind the importance of public investment in companies which have to approach a market, such as that of transport in europe, which today is still more than 90 per cent dependent on oil products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transition to low-emission mobility is essential to achieving the circular economy. european transport systems are not only a source of mobility needs, but also of innumerable problems, such as greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution from urban areas. in addition, from 2030, the transport sector will become the main source of greenhouse gas emissions in europe. a low-emission economy is needed and a strategy for mobility that is more environmentally friendly and more health-friendly is needed. to achieve these objectives, the transport sector needs to improve its efficiency through digital technologies, smart road charging and multimodality. we must also encourage the development and use of alternative energy and zero-emission vehicles. finally, this transition will have a major impact on the labour market and will require a workforce with new skills, thus opening up new job opportunities for highly-skilled young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all the signatories to the paris agreement have committed themselves to limiting co2 emissions. electric transport systems, whether private or public, can help solve the major problems of urban mobility by reducing emissions and completely eliminating pollutants and noise from our cities. but the sustainability of electric vehicles also depends on the use of electricity produced from renewable sources, thus being part of a more complex system. the transition to low-emission mobility therefore represents not only an opportunity for manufacturers and suppliers in the automotive, railway, maritime and aviation sectors, but also and above all a challenge to rethink our energy supply system as a whole. the transition to low-emission mobility requires new business, industrial and employment models that foster innovative partnerships between large companies, smes and start-ups, giving birth to that new industrial revolution in which europe has invested and is at the forefront, thanks to its talents and its professionalism.
madam president, the information that comes from cambodia is more than alarming. the parliament has recently approved repressive amendments and the minister of the interior has got such strong power to suspend the main opposition political party, and its president has been arrested. the current conditions totally alter competition amongst parties and if the situation stays the same the future election will be just a comedy. i have had the privilege to be a short-term electoral observer more than once and in several countries. i can largely say that respecting the voting procedure is not enough to guarantee a fair election. the integrity of the voting system needs to be complemented by a democratic long-term environment. suppressing political parties, conferring powers on a government and drawing up tailored electoral laws, changing the rules of the game in the run-up to the elections, are all ways to corrupt the system and prevent a democratic election. we should condemn the improper actions of the cambodian government and the serious violation of human rights, and call on the european union to suspend commercial benefits until democracy is restored.
i have to say, madam president, six weeks ago i had the opportunity to visit cambodia as part of a visit by the asean delegation. it's really depressing. cambodia is a beautiful country, which unfortunately has been invaded by an ideology in its history, where in the past a quarter of the population was murdered by its own government. this country has earned democracy now. it has not deserved the insolence that is taking place there at the moment. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i have never seen anything like this, even in totalitarian states, on my delegation trips. i think what has happened there is also absolutely against the will of the people and above all absolutely against the will of the young people who, after three decades of hun sen's government, finally want something different. there 's something else we should consider . we have paid for a new system of elections in this country that makes election fraud de facto impossible. the answer to our investment is now that the country becomes a dictatorship and elections are just more of a farce. i think that should be a lesson to us too: in this case we have spent our money in a completely unreasonable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on abortion has always raised questions which have been a burden on our consciences, intersecting with cultural and religious issues and consequently diversifying legislative paths around the world. but there is a red line that should never be crossed, that of women's rights and dignity. el salvador is among the countries with the most restrictive laws on women's rights. the case of evelyn beatriz hernandez cruz, a 19-year-old woman, who was sentenced to 30 years in prison for having a miscarriage after being raped, has shocked international public opinion. in its march 2017 resolution on equality between men and women, the european parliament stated that women must have control over their sexual and reproductive health and rights, and that the denial of life-saving sexual and reproductive health services, including safe abortion, amounts to a serious violation of human rights. in addition to strongly condemning any act against women's rights, the european union is obliged to do everything in its power to ensure that all women imprisoned solely for having had a miscarriage or an unintended abortion are released.
i am the rapporteur's substitute. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the rapporteur, mr sergio gutiérrez prieto, i ask this house to support the negotiating mandate given last week by the committee on the internal market to start the trilogues with the council on this report. the text adopted by the imco committee on the basis of broad support has considerably improved the original proposal of the european commission, particularly with regard to respect for the democratic legitimacy of local assemblies and national parliaments. we are convinced that the large majority obtained in the committee vote will enable the rapporteur to start a trilogue with a strong and defined mandate. that is why i am asking on behalf of the rapporteur to support the negotiating mandate.
