for the efdd group malta has thus assumed the presidency. another broad agenda, another attempt to turn the page on european union policy. how many of these have we had? today, the windows of the european union institutions are illuminated with bright lights, but i would say that those lights remain within these walls. it doesn't reach most people. millions of europeans are simply struggling to survive in the midst of a complex daily life, social exclusion, permanent unemployment, emigration and various threats constantly escalated by the media. the european union is still in the grip of a deep identity crisis, which unfortunately only deepens year by year. and this, in my view, is a fundamental problem for the community, which has a very negative impact on citizens' confidence in the current policies of the european union. our legislation is very intensive and productive, but the mechanisms for making key policy decisions are unfortunately not working. perhaps this is because brussels has so far increasingly ignored national parliaments in its quest to become a true central authority. and yet i hope that malta will shape the new political priorities of the european union during its presidency and will be able to convince us of their implementation.
in writing. efficient and sustainable freight logistics play a key role in ensuring the smooth running of many other services and activities in our economy, covering the entire cycle from the production and supply of goods to secondary processing, and from the local to the global level. it is therefore difficult to overestimate the economic impact of freight transport logistics and its contribution to european economic growth and competitiveness. eu logistics and freight transport policy should aim to increase the capacity to maintain a favourable environment, remove barriers and exploit the potential for growth and employment in this sector in the light of emerging economic and social trends, dynamic technological change and growing international trade. rising energy prices, the need to reduce co2 emissions, competition in the skilled labour market in an ageing society, accelerating digitalisation, automated and autonomous vehicles and operations, increasingly integrated supply chains, the wider use of containers - all of this presents a range of challenges and opportunities. i therefore agree that the development of ten-t freight infrastructure needs to be optimised, particularly in highly congested areas, in order to incorporate innovative urban logistics strategies. we need to reassess the methodology and criteria for the development of freight networks and ensure that investment is made in particular in alternative freight routes linking less congested hubs, terminals, airports and ports, also taking into account environmental protection and noise reduction.
europe today needs a strong social foundation to maintain confidence in the european union as never before. people want to live better, to have stable jobs, income, to feel economic and financial security, to ensure a future for their children. the european union and the member states must therefore work together to combat the growing poverty, especially child poverty. i would like to say to the commissioner: it is essential to establish as soon as possible a child guarantee, which would allow for specific, financially justified measures to help children in need throughout the european union. we also need to create a family-friendly environment so that people can balance work and life. however, this requires the commission to legislate on maternity and paternity leave, to improve the conditions for parental leave and to adopt a nurse directive at eu level. i sincerely thank you, commissioner, for reaffirming today that you will present the full work-life balance package in the spring and that we are ready to work together.
in writing. modern europe has the most advanced social model in its history. it has ensured decent working conditions, comprehensive social protection and a sufficient level of public services for a large part of the population. the social model has also contributed significantly to productivity and european competitiveness. it is essential that our national welfare structures keep pace with demographic change, technology, globalisation and the recent sharp increase in social inequalities. at the same time, we must repair the damage caused by the long economic crisis, the effects of which we are still feeling. the eu must once again become a pillar in this respect, by strengthening the member states and helping them to promote the european social model, in particular by supporting the family and its role in society. this is the only way to combat the demographic decline on our continent. european economic governance needs to be further restructured to take greater account of social indicators and economic policy-making. as for the euro area, we need to start the right cycle of creating quality jobs that provide economic security and employment for people. increased employment and social protection would also increase the amount of income collected, thus increasing the sustainability of the welfare state, and this is a major challenge we are facing now.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. it is noted that despite political progress, the car is still plagued by instability, insecurity, violence and incidental unrest. it is therefore necessary to address this problem as soon as possible and to put an end to this situation of insecurity. in particular, reforms should be carried out on the basis of democratic and economic governance and through constructive dialogue. the dialogue with armed groups and the restoration of the chain of courts and criminal proceedings and the fight against impunity are needed. in addition, the government should initiate prompt and impartial investigations into all alleged violations of human rights and humanitarian law. attention shall be paid to the humanitarian situation in the country, in particular to the situation of internally displaced persons and isolated persons. not only the eu but also all international donors need to do more to provide humanitarian aid. given that the illicit trade in and extraction of diamonds and timber fuels conflict and finances the armed forces, the car authorities should develop their national strategy to combat illicit extraction and trade networks for natural resources as a matter of urgency.
in the communication from the european commission 'building a european data economy', data is identified as an integral factor for economic growth, job creation and societal progress. the data market in europe is growing steadily, but it is still fragmented compared to the us, which is a barrier to the competitiveness of the industry. it is necessary to strike a balance between data business development models and legal data protection. i support the aim of harmonising the legal protection of data in the european union, as set out in the communication. at the same time, i would like to stress that the cyber threats and other related phenomena of our age are equally important. we cannot expect to solve these problems by simply defining them legally. the reality today is that the pace of technological progress is outpacing the rules and legal provisions governing the legal aspects of their use. the data economy should therefore be a focus area in order to establish a balance between rights and obligations.
i am very grateful for the energy package, the importance of which has already been stressed by my colleagues who spoke before me, and i believe that the creation of a genuine, strong and independent energy union must be based on clear and coherent plans and action in line with the objectives set. but today we're going to do that. the nordstream 2 project is a major test not only for the energy union that is being built, but also for the unity and solidarity of the european union as a whole. a project which is not economic in nature and which is in no way compatible with the objectives of the european union to reduce dependence on a single supplier. this is a geopolitical project and i would therefore urge the commissioner to undertake a comprehensive economic, environmental and political assessment of the nordstream 2 project. this project must not be allowed to become a cause of conflict between member states, a cause of turning away from solidarity and unity.
in writing. – i believe that a true european energy union is crucial if we want to revive and modernise the entire european economy. by overcoming energy fragmentation or ‘energy islands’ we are moving to a cheaper, more efficient and cleaner energy era. i believe that the completion of the energy union is as well extremely important if we want to achieve the goals of the paris climate change agreement. however, i am still very concerned by such projects as the nord stream ii, which completely sabotage the main goal of reducing energy dependence on third countries such as russia.
in writing. many eu citizens see the european union's education, training, youth and sport programme erasmus+ as an important tool to support activities in the fields of education, training, youth and sport and as a successful example of european integration. as regards the visibility of the programme, two conclusions are drawn. on the one hand, the combination of different programmes into one single programme has increased the visibility of eu support, which has led to greater public and political attention. on the other hand, several stakeholders criticise the fact that the complexity of the overall programme now leaves the various sectors insufficiently visible. the simplification objective has been largely achieved through the introduction of several new tools, such as the development of digital solutions for the application process and project management. a number of stakeholders also welcomed the fact that the introduction of the unit price system simplified the financial management of the programme. however, the first two and a half years of implementation were undoubtedly difficult and difficulties were encountered. the commission has so far improved the implementation measures and continues to implement the actions. however, much more needs to be done for the programme to be a real success.
in writing. the erasmus+ programme is one of the most successful eu programmes and there is no doubt that it needs to be continued, developed and improved. it is important that the combination of all the education and training and youth programmes not only increased the visibility of the programme, but also contributed to the development of a european identity for young people, the formation of a conscious relationship with europe and cultural dialogue. in view of the positive aspects of this programme, i would suggest avoiding hasty structural reforms, but we must improve the financial mechanisms and reduce bureaucracy. particular attention shall be paid to those whose lack of personal financial resources constitutes an obstacle to the use of the programme. i agree with the need to increase the funding of the erasmus+ programme and to ensure financial transparency and efficiency.
the question of whether to lift visas for georgian citizens is, above all, a question of whether the european union wants to have an effective foreign policy. georgia has long sought to move closer to the european union, and has made many difficult reforms to that end, and they have suffered greatly from their not-so-friendly neighbour. and all this was done with the knowledge that in exchange for georgian europeanism, rewards such as visa-free regime were offered. therefore, by lifting the visa requirement for georgian citizens, we will demonstrate that the european union is living up to its commitments and encourage our other neighbours to develop good governance and democracy, to protect human rights and to respect the principles of a market economy. we all know that the reforms have been successful. georgia is a democratic, stable country that respects human rights and adheres to european values.
mr president, i think that today we have an excellent reason to congratulate both the european union and georgia. let’s be frank: georgia has made a great step forward towards europeanisation. we have to admit that georgia’s progress in many areas, such as the fight against corruption, the judiciary, better border control, and producing better passports for its own citizens, is self—evident. but of course georgia has not completed everything and i wish georgia all the best on its way. but, colleagues, let us again be frank. we have even better reason to congratulate the european union, since today the european union is building a partnership and not a wall, as unfortunately some countries are doing in today’s world. i am very hopeful that ukraine will follow suit and that we will in a short time approve the decision on visa liberalisation for ukraine.
in writing. the topic we are discussing today is very important and concerns aspects that affect the whole life of a child. with this in mind, we must not forget that in the field of adoption, it is essential that all decisions are taken in the best interests of the child, respecting the fundamental rights of the child and the parents. the purpose of adoption is not to give adults a right to a child but to provide a stable environment in which the child can grow harmoniously, surrounded by care and love. remember that crossborder adoption should be a last resort, as it permanently cuts the child's ties with his or her country of origin. the legal framework should strike a balance between the rights of the adopted child to know his or her identity and the rights of the biological parents. in no case may a child be taken from his or her parents and placed for cross-border adoption because of the poverty of the parents. the competent authorities of the member states concerned should not recognise cases where the material circumstances of the biological parents constitute an exceptional ground and motive for depriving them of parental authority and for placing the child for adoption. this is unacceptable and must be clearly defined in the legislation. the biological parents should also be given the possibility to have recourse to all remedies available to them to resolve a negative decision. in the case of adoption, the child should be placed in a full-fledged family, with both a mother and a father.
i regret that low-risk biological pesticides are still not widely used in the european union. and we know very well that the main obstacle is the long, slow and complicated certification process. this is partly our fault - the commission, the european parliament - because we want to change this. the procedure is contrary to the interests of all consumers, farmers and innovative industries in the european union, and i see no winners in this situation in terms of the public interest. the commission's proposed refit procedure would last, as already mentioned, between 8 and 10 years. and i see no point in doing both, linking them together. the refit procedure can go its own way, and low-risk biological pesticides are put back on the market their own way. the european parliament's environment committee has made its position very clear, and i hope that parliament will do the same on wednesday.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. i was an opinion maker in the committee on budgetary control on the increase of the budgetary capacity of the euro area. we see how difficult it is for the european union to recover from the economic and financial crisis. the difficult recovery of the euro area shows a clear need to further european economic integration and complete the process of economic and monetary union. the crisis highlighted deep-rooted and long-understood problems in the euro area, including the lack of a fiscal and budgetary adjustment mechanism and an over-reliance on central bank money supply controls, without any provision for further fiscal, economic and political integration. to meet the challenges that lie ahead, some changes are needed in the governance of the euro area, starting with the definition of budgetary and fiscal capacities to be developed within the union framework.
the free world calls the right of nations to self-determination the crowning achievement of democracy. in politics, that instrument is called a referendum. perhaps mr verhofstadt could ask the belgian people whether they would be in favour of a new order for europe, a new order for the system. i could ask the same question to my colleagues in lithuania, to mrs marine le pen, and perhaps to france. as i understand it, nigel farage, you don't have to ask the british people that anymore, they've already made their choice, they've made their choice to leave a european union that is being eased but consistently pushed into a new deal with one president, one government, one currency and one army. i think the public response would be clear. the need to reform the european union must be geared to strengthening the power, autonomy and livelihoods of each country's people.
for several weeks now, the situation in eastern ukraine has been moving closer to the threat of open warfare. the minsk agreements that were supposed to settle the conflict have turned out to be binding only on ukraine, but not on russia. the european union has provided a great deal of support to ukraine, but the increase in russian-led gangs' aggression in recent years has shown that much of the european support to ukraine has been directed in the wrong direction. we were treating the consequences, not fighting the cause. today, a united europe cannot ignore the threat of a new war, and i am convinced that it is necessary to assess the effectiveness of the sanctions against the main perpetrator of the conflict the regime controlling russia and, if possible, to extend them to include the diversion of raw materials to the european union. and do so until the aggressor is calmed down. at the same time, i would like to point out that such measures of influence must clearly distinguish between the perpetrators of aggression the putin regime and ordinary russian citizens.
the geopolitical situation in eastern europe is more tense, unpredictable and volatile than ever. the situation in eastern ukraine is deteriorating and this is a matter of great concern to all europeans. despite the efforts of both the european union and the international community, the provisions of the minsk agreements are not being respected, and the intensified russian military action in eastern ukraine shows that the agreement is not being taken seriously. the european union must remain united and in solidarity with the sanctions as never before in this difficult period, and must take a united critical stance on russia's actions on the european union's side, and be seen as a leader in the international arena in mobilizing support for ukraine. i want to point out that there are huge tensions in belarus right now, and no one can predict what russia is planning. if we are not united and strong in our position on ukraine, we will not be able to face other geopolitical challenges in the future.
madam president, we all are aware of the critical situation in eastern ukraine. the most recent case is in adviivka, where thousands of people have been left in the cold, without water, electricity or heating, many killed and injured. i had an opportunity to visit refugee camps in ukraine, i have seen what it is about. ukrainian leaders have appealed to the democratic world, asking for help to stop the aggression and to provide humanitarian assistance. the russian war in ukraine and against ukraine, what russian regular and proxy troops are doing there, is a war crime. we should achieve that a permanent international observation mission works in eastern ukraine; osce offices should be established in donetsk and luhansk. it is necessary not only to prolong but also to increase political pressure on russia for their malevolent violation of the minsk agreements and sanctions should remain in place until russia ceases its invasion in the east of ukraine and withdraws from crimea. i think we should remember that ukraine is a litmus test for our union and our unity.
madam president, colleagues, we are living in very interesting, even dramatic, times. one world leader wants to make his country great again. yet another one wants to make a country big enough at the expense of territories of others. and he is not really limited in his actions. today, there are over 30 000 local bandits and terrorists in the east of ukraine, and they are all armed by russia and well supported by that country, and there are over 3 000 russian professional military who lead the operation. but, colleagues, the chief of command is sitting in the kremlin and continues to play according to his aims. with this in mind, i call yet again on the european union to consider deployment of the fully-fledged common security and defence policy (csdp) mission in the east of ukraine as an important instrument for preventing the aggression. i think we should give our full support – political, and by all instruments – to ukrainians. they deserve it.
in writing. while we are striving to create growth and jobs across the european union, the situation is still not improving in many member states, particularly in the areas of social affairs, employment and education. child poverty has increased particularly in europe, with some 20 million children living in or near poverty. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to create the child guarantee, a special budgeted instrument to ensure that every child in europe has access to free health and childcare, education, decent housing and adequate nutrition. we also need to focus on women's poverty, as women currently account for the largest share of those receiving the lowest incomes and pensions. i would like to encourage the commission and the member states to put forward specific recommendations and measures to reduce the gender pay and pension gap. the commission and the member states should therefore ensure and implement in their policy programmes, taking into account the recommendations made by the ep, that all people have access to the necessary and adequate social protection, health and social services, and should be able to participate more fully in the labour market for vulnerable groups, reduce poverty in the workforce and promote gender equality. it is also necessary to promote health and safety at work, strengthen the rights of workers in precarious employment and in non-standard employment contracts and provide for greater social protection for the self-employed.
today we are ratifying a very important agreement, a very necessary agreement for the european union, the most modern agreement in the history of the european union, an agreement reached by two democracies - the european union and canada, our agreement with a canada that respects the same values, where, excuse the comparison, animal rights are more respected than human rights in any of our other partner countries with which we have free trade agreements. criticism of the way public services are regulated in this agreement is completely unfounded (i am talking about education, health and the environment). i am confident that once the agreement enters into force, european union citizens, workers and companies will soon benefit from it, as was the case with the eu-korea agreement. lithuanian exporters will also benefit. i support this deal.
blue-card question. – nobody doubts the necessity to fight terrorism. terrorism is like a disease, it spreads around, but it overcomes and oversteps the boundaries of the european union. the european union is bound to cooperate with neighbouring countries, but the diverse descriptions of terrorism sometimes from third countries is used as a pretext for political prosecution. colleague, would you agree that the european union as such and member states have to be very vigorous, even selective, in cooperating with some neighbouring countries when it comes to the fight against terrorism in order to protect the political freedoms of citizens and respect freedoms as such?
in writing. the issue we're discussing today has been a long-standing issue in the civil liberties committee, of which i am a member. without a doubt, the control and protection of external borders remains the most effective way of ensuring the eu's security in the long term. after all, external border control is carried out to ensure the security of the eu as a whole and its citizens. one of the objectives of such controls is to contribute to the fight against irregular migration and trafficking in human beings, and to prevent all threats to internal security. in such cases, it is advisable to strengthen the protection of the external borders in order to identify more effectively those persons who intend to conceal their true identity. but this system cannot become an insurance system, we need to use common sense to solve this issue. of course, border guards must be able to decide not to check certain databases in the case of a person exercising the eu right of free movement of persons, if the assessment makes it clear that the person does not pose a threat to the internal security of any eu country. this includes all children under 12 years of age and minors travelling with their parents, school pupils travelling with organised excursions, and holders of diplomatic passports. we must not forget that the effectiveness of border protection services depends on their level of funding, and the eu must therefore provide substantial support to those countries which have external borders with the eu.
in writing. the european cloud initiative was born as an attempt to respond to the challenges of the digital age. the data economy is becoming one of the main economic drivers in the world today. data is now becoming globally accessible rather than just local. this cloud initiative is mature and is expected to contribute to effectively addressing the issues of data storage, processing and exchange within the eu itself, while enhancing the competitiveness of the european union economy. one of the objectives of the document is the development of the digital economy. the open cloud project will benefit not only the science sector but also the private sector. i agree with the statements made in the document on the protection of personal and scientific data, using existing eu legislation, but a balance must be struck between public and private interests. cloud computing is not just a set of technical solutions. these are the very issues of european information security. in order to avoid fragmentation of data, it is necessary not only to harmonise the legal framework for the free movement of data in the eu member states, but also to review and modernise copyright issues.
for the verts/ale group i do not know whether the agenda-makers should be thanked for bringing together two similar, very important issues on the delay of the european structural investment funds and their impact on growth and employment. each of these deserves a separate discussion, even if they use similar arguments. as the shadow rapporteur for the greens, i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. in our view, both reports are well drafted, but both show the same negative trend - very high and vague, undefined expectations linked to new forms of flexibility between priorities and between operational programmes. we have reason to suspect that this may lead to a diversion of funds towards more investment-sensitive but less cohesion-related projects. the same applies to the high level of fascination with the possibilities of financial instruments. these instruments risk that the funds allocated to them may not be real investments at all, but remain created in the financial sector. and the fact that at least one third of the structural funds programmes are late should not be used to justify such innovations. we need a broad cohesion policy geared to the needs of the regions, rather than the possibility of directing european investment to the most feasible areas or investments in the financial sector.
for the efdd group i think the message is quite positive. i understand that the key aspects of the european union's aviation strategy are competition, safety, the issue of the single european sky. this is very important. i understand that the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr telicka, from the development of the aviation model to the improvement of safety, are necessary. i also believe that the european union's air transport policy should be transformed from a strict regulation of internal competition and a position of punishers to a desire to dominate the global air transport market, taking on the role of a coordinator of expansion and development. small airports should become a priority for the european union, and i therefore urge the commission to give them special attention and to provide member states with more effective financial instruments and instruments to help maintain small regional airports, especially in the periphery. but as a man with over 40 years of pilot's license, mr. p. telicka, there are some things i don't understand. as my fellow airmen have failed to understand, at least this is what i did not find in the report. i don't understand why, when we talk about youth employment all the time, we don't talk about attention, support for sports aviation, sports airports. i do not understand why there is an uncontrolled, simply unstoppable increase in demands on airlines, especially those that are largely public. why are the requirements for private users, four-seaters, two-seaters, so high that they will soon be the same as the requirements of the boeing company? i don't understand how engineers and designers who are designing new, fast, safe aircraft are fighting for every mile of speed, and we're spending hours waiting in the airports for the check-in. i don't understand the delays on many flights. i think that in this modern age of technology, it's not just the weather that's the determining factor. i also do not understand how the rights of citizens are protected when they arrive at an airport and find an airline on strike. i've got that in the strategy, mr. p. telicka. the old saying among the lackeys 'where aviation begins, order ends' will probably be around for a long time to come.
mr president, on behalf of the group of friends of european ukraine, i would like to draw your attention to the third anniversary of the victory of euromaidan. the maidan revolution of dignity was a game-changing event not only for ukraine: its significance is huge for today’s europe and the whole free world. the ukrainian nation chose to be european, free and democratic. during the struggle, putin disclosed his true face by occupying ukraine and launching a war in eastern ukraine. despite the huge human and financial losses, ukraine remains a solid member of our european family and is showing a true example of real change. the eu must respond adequately, inter alia by finalising visa-free travel for ukraine as soon as possible. colleagues, to all of us in europe the maidan revolution is a reminder of freedom and of the price paid for it. that should not be underestimated in these turbulent times. glory to the heroes of maidan.
the road to federalism which we are discussing today will, in my view, be the most direct route to the collapse of europe. are we ready to go down that road? i could see another way. not two speeds, not european federalisation, but the european path to unity and freedom. a europe of free and equal peoples is the only way to bring us together in a common quest for europe's survival and its future. i would see a way to a europe without invented fears, a europe without distorted liberalism, without blind capitalism, not one where apologists no longer see the exploited man, where most politicians no longer have responsibility and most rulers no longer have conscience. is this the kind of european union we are seeking to strengthen? are we prepared to solve the problems of the big countries at the expense of the small ones? today i see a desire to sideline those countries which are really in favour of a union of states, in favour of a genuine reform of the european union, rather than turning it into the united states of europe.
i welcome the commission's determination to tackle the gender pay gap, but despite all its efforts, the situation is not changing. wage inequality is a multifaceted problem and, therefore, in addition to wage transparency, i call on member states, in particular, to introduce a clear definition of equal pay in national law. furthermore, it is also essential to define what constitutes equivalent work, as there is no definition of equivalent work at eu level or clear evaluation criteria against which different jobs can be compared. one way of establishing equal work is to use gender-neutral job evaluation and classification systems. the wage gap may also reflect labour market inequalities, which are generally more common among women, especially in terms of the difficulty of reconciling work and family life. and as a result, women are actually more likely to work part-time, more likely to interrupt their careers, which limits their opportunities for lifelong learning, and also limits their professional development. commissioner, i would like to ask you with all my heart to submit as soon as possible a package of legislative and non-legislative measures on reconciliation between work and family life.
in writing. – free movement – which includes the rights of people to work and reside in other eu member states is enshrined in the eu treaties, including article 21 of the tfeu and article 45 of the charter of fundamental rights, which reads that every eu citizen has a right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. i believe this is a fundamental principle and that the uk, as a full member of the eu, must duly comply with this clause. i call on the commission to provide us with any necessary statistics of any cases of unjustified expulsion or refusal and to ensure that the uk upholds the rights of eu citizens in the uk.
in writing. the creative europe programme is the only eu programme directly dedicated to the creative, cultural and audiovisual sectors and it is therefore necessary to support and ensure the continuity of the work and projects of this programme, with a stronger focus on reducing social exclusion and innovative cross-benefit and cross-sectoral project measures. i would urge that when assessing applications, the content of the projects submitted be considered, not just the strict requirements of form. it is important to ensure clearly regulated, transparent project submission and financing. it is necessary to increase the funding for this cultural programme, as the interest and the expectations of the creators far exceed the budget of the programme. the development of the cultural operators' skills in the application and implementation of projects should also be taken into account. the cultural sphere is a sensitive part of the lives of the people of the european union. it is important both for the cultural expression and individuality of national identity and for openness to other cultures and their diversity. the european identity is not merely a synthesis of national cultures, the ultimate goal of which is a common denominator of european identity. culture is a living, continuous process, accompanied by new discoveries and challenges. one of them is how to reconcile the impact of the economic dimension with the intrinsic value of art and culture and to give more attention to artists.
in writing. the 2014-2020 'europe for citizens' programme aims to strengthen the links between the european union and its citizens, to contribute to citizens' understanding of the european union, its history and diversity, and to promote european citizenship and improve the conditions for civic and democratic participation at european union level. this report presents the first experience of the programme, which is now in its second year, analyses the reasons for this stage of the 'europe for citizens' programme and the main concerns of applicants and beneficiaries. the main concern relates to the budget of the programme for the period 2014-2020, which has been reduced by 14% compared to the previous period. the european parliament therefore considers that, given the high level of interest in the programme and the low proportion of projects eligible for funding, it is of the utmost importance to increase the budget of the programme.
in writing. the purpose of the report is to provide a first-hand experience of the implementation of the europe for citizens programme for the years 2014-2020. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 02 01) and the european schools for the period 2014-2020. the main concern is undoubtedly the budget of the programme, which has been reduced by 14% compared to the previous period. the reduction in the financial envelope will undoubtedly have a major impact on the operation of the whole of the europe for citizens programme. given the high level of interest in the programme, it is essential to clarify the objectives and ensure sufficient funding. in many member states, potential applicants face difficulties in proposing projects because they lack international partnership skills or because the european dimension of their project is not sufficiently articulated. in this context, the possibility of enhancing the capacity of stakeholders could be considered. as the only directly elected eu institution representing almost 500 million citizens and one of the eu's legislative institutions, the european parliament has a role to play in adopting a programme specifically designed to encourage citizens' participation and to increase their understanding of the eu's history and values. because it is in the interest of the whole community.
thank you, mr. chairman, madam commissioner, it's good to see you here. first of all, i would like to thank all three rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for the great work they have done and the reports they have produced, but despite the various legislative acts, recommendations, strategies adopted in the field of gender equality, the reality is that we are only halfway there and at the moment the progress that is being made is simply not enough. progress is still lacking in reducing the gender pay gap. some countries may be doing better, for example, but as the latest eurostat data show, in some member states this gap has even widened over the last five years, which of course has implications for both lower pensions for women and higher poverty for women. it is also worth noting that women have a harder time balancing work and family responsibilities. they are often responsible for child care, parenting, and caring for family members. this is affecting their professional careers and their social security, and we are therefore looking forward, commissioner, to the package on reconciliation of work and family life and the proposal for four directives that the commission promised at the end of april. i would like to draw attention to one more point and simply urge the member states to take concrete measures to combat violence against women. it is indeed very important that the member states ratify the istanbul convention on combating violence against women without delay, as only half of the countries of the european union have so far done so. finally, gender mainstreaming is necessary in a range of policy areas, and this requires political will and awareness, as well as some funding. so let's unite and work together.
as you know, the european parliament, at its february plenary session, endorsed its recommendations to the council on the priorities of the european union at the 61st session of the united nations commission on the status of women, in which parliament very strongly condemns the so-called universal silence rule, because in fact it considers that rule to be a direct attack, a direct step backwards in the field of women's and girls' rights. in addition, this rule may in practice mean that many related health and disease prevention programmes in third countries, such as maternal and child health, the fight against zika virus or the fight against aids, will be financially affected. we certainly have no right to allow that to happen, and i really think that the european union, in this situation, simply has to step up its assistance to third countries in the field of family planning through humanitarian aid and development aid.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, 2016 was marked by negligence and deteriorating human rights situations across the world. as the reality on the ground is very sad, i have hopes that this resolution will allow us to be more focused and speak with one voice. on behalf of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe group (alde), i should hereby like to highlight the following elements of importance. firstly, protection of all human rights defenders in all forms of their expression – online and offline. secondly, fighting back oppressive laws and systematic practices contributing to the shrinking space for civil society, which includes rights to free and impartial media. thirdly, international humanitarian law: we cannot allow any more hospitals to be bombed, and must ensure that humanitarian aid reaches those in need in war-stricken areas as well. in addition, alde calls to stop impunity for all states, to comply with icc and make perpetrators accountable. we are all concerned by the resurgence of death penalties in many countries, especially in the gulf, and call for a moratorium on the death penalty. more specifically, i should stress the appalling situation of raif badawi, the sakharov prize winner. he remains in prison and his health condition is unknown, and his relatives are not allowed to meet him. lastly, we urge the european council next year to adopt a more geographically balanced country priorities list. alde group especially felt the need that some countries of latin america, such as cuba or venezuela, should have been included.
in writing. cooperation between the european union and the united nations on the protection of human rights is of paramount importance. both organisations need to focus their efforts and give priority to gender equality issues worldwide. the european union should actively support initiatives to integrate the gender and women's equality dimension into all programmes of the united nations, continue to support measures to empower women and girls, and strive to eliminate violence against and discrimination against women and girls, including gender-based violence. the european union must support interregional initiatives aimed at the protection and implementation of women's rights and strive to implement both the beijing platform for action and the programme of action of the international conference on population and development.
i am pleased that the european parliament, representing the voice of 500 million citizens and consumers of the european union, is putting forward what matters most to citizens - the safety, quality and standards of the food they eat. in the context of both trade agreements with third countries and climate change mitigation agreements, citizens' expectations have increased even more. consumers naturally expect safe, affordable, quality food that is grown naturally without genetic modification. on the other hand, the successive crises that have weakened the agricultural sector have shown that unless we provide our farmers with a decent standard of living, we can lose it all very quickly. i would therefore like to point out that, while ensuring that the highest standards of quality, safety and other standards are met, we must not forget those who take care of us, namely the farmers.
i have 60 seconds to speak, one second for every year of the treaty of rome. so very short. mr juncker, mr tusk, it was not all bad, but it is proof that we have reached our 60th anniversary. of course, if we don't do anything, i'm not sure we'll make it to 70. but please accept my congratulations. and if you can, answer the citizens of the union to what i think is the central and most important question today: how is it that six decades ago, when the politicians of that time came together, they were able to solve the really serious problems of european states, and in the last few years they have been able to create a whole host of problems, new problems, which have given rise to enormous social exclusion in europe, terrorism, economic and demographic crises, unemployment and many, many other problems?
a year after the brussels terror attacks, a little less than a year and a half after the latest terrorist attack in paris. july will mark the one year anniversary of the terrorist attacks in nice. we can also recall the previous terrorist attacks in madrid, in paris, in brussels. we can count the victims of terrorist attacks all over europe, but what would we have to say if the relatives of those victims asked each of you in this room what specific action you took to prevent such acts from happening again? we have passed and ratified a great deal of legislation. which of these documents do you think would be used by those who decided to launch another attack against european citizens? could it be that the dangerous few hundred individuals who were identified as potential terrorists by counterterrorism agencies last year, were scared off by these documents and left europe? it's not likely. that's not why they came here, to get away. it is also possible to believe that the warm weather and the cooling off of relations with turkey during the last warm spring and summer months will bring the doves of peace to europe. the readiness to counter them is lacking today. society is no safer than it was a year ago. to think that terrorists are weaker is acceptable, but it is unwise policy.
i would like to thank my colleagues michael gahler and esteban gonzález pons for their excellent report. the topic is of particular importance as the implementation of the objectives of the csdp is more urgent than ever in a context of rapidly deteriorating security. in particular, to strengthen the eu's operational capacity so that, if necessary, the european union can take real action to safeguard peace and prevent armed conflict. the security and defence threats to the eu, its territory and its citizens are common and cannot be addressed by any single member state. the eu must urgently develop a unified and effective defence system, which unfortunately has not yet been developed. this will in no way undermine national sovereignty, as this policy is implemented by the member states. they are political entities. we need clarity in transatlantic relations, which is currently lacking. it is in this context that we need to rebalance and expand the strategic partnership between the eu and nato in order to ensure coherence, develop joint capabilities, and avoid duplication of action and structures.
the importance of the arctic region is enormous, and it is becoming increasingly recognised by the world. climate change, new shipping routes, new fishing and natural resource areas, and increased competition for the arctic and its natural resources are encouraging many countries to become more active in the region. russia is currently the most active player. we also have china, which, although it has no geographical access to the arctic, bases its participation in the exploitation of its resources on the fact that the arctic and its resources belong to all of humanity, not just the countries that belong to the arctic region. the european union has longstanding commitments in the arctic: eu member states participate in the work of the arctic council, and the european union, as mentioned above, is waiting to be granted observer status in the council. it is essential that the arctic remains a low-tension region and that the militarisation of the region is avoided. we are watching with great concern the developments in the region, where russia is establishing military bases, has established an arctic military district. the european commission's communication really lacked the focus on arctic security, and it is good that the global strategy has brought this to the fore. we, the european union, need to devote much more attention and resources to implementing arctic policy. the eu clearly needs a more integrated and comprehensive arctic policy. i would like to conclude by saying that i agree with what mr wałęsa said and support his amendment.
the european union, as a global player, cannot afford to ignore regions as large and important as the arctic. the arctic is a region of many key interests: sharing of territory with neighbouring countries, exploitation of energy resources, the emergence of important new transport routes, the conservation of resources in the face of climate change, and the development and deployment of military capabilities across the region. there are other problems. the complex problems that are particularly evident in the arctic, such as the extreme climate and the vast natural resources it contains, on the one hand, and the high investment and attractive infrastructure projects on the other, require broad and effective partnerships. i personally welcome the european union's initiative to take up this work and believe that together we can achieve great results.
in writing. mr president, the arctic is becoming increasingly important in our modern world. the european union has longstanding commitments to the arctic in the areas of history, geography, economics and research, and has a strong influence on policy throughout the region. it is necessary to take into account that geopolitical developments in the arctic also affect the security situation in northern europe and the world. the arctic region is particularly primitive and vulnerable to human activities. the preservation and enhancement of the arctic ecosystem's capacity must be a key objective of the global community. in this area, the eu's investment and structural funds play a vital role in the development of the european arctic, promoting sustainable economic growth and the creation of quality jobs in future-oriented sectors. there is therefore a need to develop the arctic's natural resources in a responsible and balanced way, in a way that avoids the destruction of the current natural structure. to this end, scientific and research cooperation between all stakeholders active in arctic research should be encouraged and facilitated at international level. the commission's proposal to create a stakeholder forum with a focus on local actors is a very welcome initiative.
in writing. the situation in zimbabwe, one of the poorest countries in the world, is extremely volatile. there are constant violations of human rights, clashes with the opposition. it should be noted that freedom of assembly, association and expression are fundamental elements of democracy. all states have an obligation to respect and observe human rights. the zimbabwean authorities must do more to prevent violent repression, political violence and restrictions and intimidation against human rights defenders. the criminal justice system must not be abused. human rights defenders must be given favourable conditions for carrying out their activities. in view of the current situation and in support of the local population, the eu should engage in a political dialogue with the zimbabwean authorities in accordance with the cotonou agreement.
author. – madam president, commissioner, ukrainian friends and colleagues, the russian federation is 26 times bigger by territory than our host country, france. that looks like more than enough living space, does it not? no, it does not, and putin decides to occupy crimea. no wonder. for russian tsars and bolsheviks, for stalin, and now putin, politics has always been about expansion and domination. to destroy the europeanisation of neighbouring nations, to deport and suppress those who protest – this is the line of the kremlin. next to the kurils and sakhalin in the east, the kola peninsula in the north, kaliningrad in the west, crimea – once an attractive summer resort – is being rapidly built as a military stronghold in the south. from 12 000 military personnel before occupation up to a figure of double that today, and 43 000 in the near future, this is the ‘russian world’ in crimea. a so-called ‘new world’ in crimea is being built at the expense of the oppression of crimean tatars and ukrainian citizens. colleagues, russia is surely back to its imperial military posture and we must take it absolutely seriously. abkhazia and ossetia, transnistria and crimea are not coincidences; these are all parts of the kremlin’s plan, just as syria is today, and as libya might be tomorrow.
palm oil is not just a threat to tropical mice. palm oil has long been used in the food industry as a vegetable fat. palm oil is being used to replace natural butter in an increasing number of foods, replacing milk fat. in some infant formulae, it even makes up up a quarter of the total weight of the product. this has a direct impact on european agriculture as a whole: by using imported palm oil, we are not only encouraging the destruction of rainforests, but we are also depriving our farmers and milk producers and processors of a livelihood. is this what we europeans need, who already have a surplus of milk and milk products? i therefore support all initiatives to reduce the use and import of palm oil.
i think that it is not right to ask a country whose gross domestic product fell by more than 25% a few years ago to achieve not only zero gdp within a few years but also the maastricht criteria, which, incidentally, are not being met today not only by greece but also by the other member states of the community. the demands on greece must be measured, reasonable, and the proposed reforms implemented without shock therapy to the greek society. the cartel of demands from the european union institutions must be at a reasonable level, not only because greece can overcome it, but also because it is not without the responsibility of these institutions that greece has been put on the needle of loans. i would be 100 percent in favour of the international monetary fund being involved in the greek financing process. and then, alongside the debate on reforms in greece, there should be another debate, which is how much of the debt that the creditors of this country are willing to write off, despite the fact that some countries don't like it.
blue-card question. – mr president, you will find no country happy to see an austerity programme but listening to this greek drama where both sides are blaming each other every time, would you tell me, if you were the prime minister of greece, what decisions you would take first and second? what concrete decisions would help your country come out of the economic crisis? be pragmatic. first and second decisions.
in writing. on 29 march 2017, the united kingdom government submitted a communication to the european council formalising the united kingdom's decision to withdraw from the european union. this report is the result of a referendum in the united kingdom. and while this is an unprecedented event, and one that is to be deplored, as no member state has yet withdrawn from the european union, we must ensure that the withdrawal is orderly and does not have a negative impact on the european union, its citizens and the process of european integration. the european parliament represents all citizens of the european union and therefore aims to protect the interests of all citizens throughout the withdrawal process of the united kingdom. the negotiations on withdrawal must be conducted in a way that ensures legal stability and helps citizens to have a clear picture of their future. the status and rights of citizens of the european union residing in the united kingdom and of united kingdom citizens residing in the european union would be governed by the principles of reciprocity, equality, equal treatment and non-discrimination. until the united kingdom leaves the european union, all rights relating to the four freedoms must be fully respected, and any discrimination against eu citizens in their attempts to obtain the right to reside in the united kingdom would be contrary to european union law and would be intolerable.
in writing. the uk currently has a population of about 3 million eu citizens, of whom 170,000 are lithuanian nationals. we have only two years to negotiate brexit, and there are many issues: the uk's financial settlement, the eu's external border, the relocation of agencies, the future commercial and political relationship. the protection of the rights of eu citizens working, living and studying in the uk should be a major concern. negotiations should not become a competition in which we all lose. on the contrary, i would urge those responsible to take account of the fate of those three million people when they negotiate and thus reach an agreement that is in the best interests of all eu citizens. by showing that they care about the european union and that we are here to regain the trust of eu citizens. what is clear is that, if the uk leaves the eu, it and its citizens will no longer be able to enjoy the same rights or benefits as other eu citizens.
we made an important decision today, but not necessarily a happy one. i did not join those who applauded this decision. i am more disappointed by this decision, but even though we have made our decision, and our british colleagues voted in the referendum, we must take the appropriate decisions. yes, the negotiations on the uk's withdrawal must be pragmatic, and i hope the european union will negotiate as a pragmatic partner, but on the future cooperation agreement, when we have to become partners of the future, i hope the negotiators of the european union will be visionary, that they will propose solutions that will create opportunities for the european union and the uk to remain partners, close partners, and not really create new borders in europe. the berlin wall was torn down by europeans, and i think we should learn from this history and not build new walls in europe.
for the efdd group we keep hearing that the americans elected the wrong trump, that the wrong orbán is running hungary, and that the wrong kaczyński was elected in poland. the french people may have chosen the wrong marie le pen. fear of losing power, fear of losing political influence, even fear of being held responsible for the creation of an all-powerful market that has impoverished society, is what gives rise to the kind of debate where speaking openly and truthfully is called hate speech, where representing the interests of the public rather than a few and appealing to the politics that serve them is called populism. funny discussion today. it's like we're the ones getting blown up. it's like we're the ones who are hated in europe, not us. it's as if the pope had told the leaders of europe before the anniversary of the treaty of rome that yes, so-called democracy is very good, but public representation in politics is bad. i remember that the word "popular" in its original meaning is exactly what society is. and the word democracy is not a tool for a group of individuals in politics to maintain and increase their power. let's stop measuring the fictitious democracy ratings. let us finally turn our faces to the people whose interests we are elected to represent. i remember that in the countries of eastern europe many years ago, there was one truth and one party and the election results were satisfactory to the government of the day. now we're talking about elections being influenced on the one hand, and we're thinking about how we can influence them on the other. so, under the guise of democracy, we are seeking the same results, so that the elections will maintain the power that we have, so that those elections are not the choice of the people of europe. so why the elections if there is no choice?
reducing the cost of calls and mobile internet will certainly contribute to a more comfortable and better life throughout the european union. today we welcome ukraine, which has achieved visa-free travel and closer links with europe, but the price per minute of mobile phone calls to this country has been almost doubled by all eu operators in the last few years. so we have an interesting paradox: on the one hand, we are promoting european integration in the european union that has already been created, and on the other hand, we are alienating non-eu countries from ourselves in everyday matters. we can ask ourselves: what will the price of mobile communications be for the uk after we have completed the brexit procedure? i think that, once we have achieved a reduction in the price of mobile signals within the eu, we should pay more attention to regulating this service, at least with the nearest neighbours.
in writing. mr president, the report we are discussing today is of great importance to all citizens of the european union, as it concerns the facilitation of communication. in 2015, the commission adopted an order providing for the abolition of roaming charges for all types of communications, including voice, within the eu. the introduction of rules governing wholesale prices for roaming services is necessary for such a system to be in place. this will make it possible to abolish retail charges for roaming in europe. this solution should be introduced as soon as possible, as it is undoubtedly valuable for all consumers, and especially for those travelling across europe. it will also contribute to the reduction of telecommunications taxation, provided that a 'fair use policy' is in place, based on the non-taxation of additional services provided by telecom operators and the transfer of data outside the country where the service was purchased. in this context, the protection of competition in the telecommunications market needs to be addressed in the implementing acts, as this is necessary to preserve potentially low prices for services. the introduction of provisions and rules to remove the eu's backlog as soon as possible is necessary to consolidate and facilitate the digital single market process in the union. it also affects the reduction of consumer taxes. the position of the notifier, which encourages the commission to act as soon as possible on this issue, is therefore fully justified.
after discussing this morning the sad issue of the european union as a whole, brexit, we now have the opportunity to do one thing to contribute to a bigger and better europe: the abolition of visas for ukrainian citizens. visa abolition and the right to free movement within the european union are among the most effective instruments of the european union's external policy. it must be applied with caution and moderation, particularly to those countries which want to be european. ukraine has long since proved that it is worthy of this opportunity offered by the european union. together, this will be our best gift to all pro-european forces in ukraine, a clear message that in return for europeanization, it can get more.
the author. equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union, enshrined in the treaty on european union. our european union, too, is guided by this principle in its external action, because women's rights and gender equality are not only fundamental human rights, but also indispensable means of promoting development and reducing poverty and the basis for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. in february, the european parliament adopted its recommendations to the council on eu priorities in relation to the 61st session of the united nations commission on the status of women, held in new york in march this year, which was devoted to the economic empowerment of women. the european parliament's priorities were set out in five main areas. first, it is the general conditions for the empowerment of women and girls, which means giving women the tools they need to become economically independent, equally represented and equal in all areas of life, to gain more power in public life and to control all decisions that affect their lives. second, it is the empowerment of women and the removal of barriers to the labour market. and here, measures such as reconciliation of work and family life and the elimination of the wage and pension gap are of great importance. third, equal participation of women in decision-making at all levels. fourth, addressing the needs and problems of the most vulnerable women, namely women with disabilities, women refugees, women living in rural areas or in poverty. fifthly, and this is very important, there must be a sufficient budget, sufficient resources to deal with all these issues and all these problems. so i'm going to appeal directly to the council. could the council answer the following questions: how has the council taken account of the priorities set out in the parliament's recommendation when preparing the position of the european union and which points have been rejected by the member states? if not, why? what were the main achievements of the european union in negotiating the conclusions of the commission on the status of women and to what extent was it possible to translate the priorities of the european union into a harmonised text of the conclusions? finally, is the european union making progress on its global commitments on women's health, and in particular on action to combat the negative impact of the so-called universal silence rule on women? as you may know, the new u.s. administration has announced that it is suspending funding for the united nations population fund, the agency that supports family planning policies around the world. knowing that the u.s. financial contribution to this program is so significant, this is a very disturbing news, because the united nations population fund has saved the lives of tens of thousands of women around the world through its work in providing access to family planning services, preventing unsafe abortions, and supporting maternal and infant health. so how does the council view this message and the possibilities for strengthening the european union's role in this area? it is clear that the european union must become a leader in this area, with the united states withdrawing from funding such important programmes. another question that needs to be answered. parliament supported the proposal to draw up an international labour organisation convention to establish an international standard to deal with the problem of gender-based violence at work, which is indeed a very pressing one. so, is there any action planned in the future to bring about such a convention? and that's the end of it. mr borg, i thank you in advance for your answers and, of course, for your cooperation with the council. but i also want to emphasise and ask that in the future we really need to strengthen institutional cooperation and coordination of activities, because we have one common goal: ensuring women's rights and gender equality.
author. – madam president, thousands of russians joining the protest across the whole country in reaction to alexei navalny’s investigation of state corruption, and, sorry to say, typical behaviour from the eu – no action! a press release by the external service and a resolution by this house – is that all we are up to? it is not enough! a laundromat of russian officials’ corrupt money: this is what europe has become. a safe haven to turn dirty, stolen money into mansions, yachts and vineyards in london, nice and sardinia. calling an investigation commission based on the navalny report: this is what the eu action must be. this is what ordinary russian people expect from the west, as it is the money illicitly taken from them. as long as we in the eu do not fight the kremlin’s corruption, our policy vis-à-vis russia is simply doomed. silence and inaction will make us partners in crime, with no right to criticise.
harassing peaceful protesters is not justifiable in the 21st century. history shows us that there are two ways of civilization. one based on democracy, respect for political and civil liberties, leads to long-term stability and prosperity. the search for another way usually ends in economic collapse, repression, and often armed aggression against neighbors. the answer to the question of where russia is going is, i think, clear. the recent protests show that there are both freedom-loving and freedom-loving people in russia. our task as europeans is to promote democratic forces while punishing aggressive authoritarian leaders.
the author. after the events of the past weeks in belarus, our european efforts to build and improve relations with this country can only be described by the old genius of a former russian prime minister: "we wanted the best, and it turned out as usual". by lifting some sanctions, we hoped that the regime of president lukashenka in belarus would at least partially respect human rights and freedoms. i remind you that president lukashenka's regime is not only a threat to the security of belarusian citizens. in two years' time, europe will be facing a far less serious threat from the unsafe construction of potentially unsafe nuclear power plants just 20 kilometres from the european union's external border. i cannot understand why our major factions are avoiding this topic. why is the commission not sending a clear message to belarus that we cannot accept russia's ambitions to build potential nuclear bombs on the european union's borders?
author. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the one-year-old council conclusions on lifting the eu sanctions was a decision taken on the basis of our goodwill and expectations. have there been any positive steps by lukashenko in reciprocity since then? i find none: elections in september were rigged, not a single political prisoner has been rehabilitated, the un special rapporteur has been continuously ignored, the death penalty has never abolished, and they continue to execute people. the nuclear power plant in ostrovets keeps growing, in violation of safety standards, nearly 50 kilometres away from an eu capital – vilnius. as we speak, around 20 people remain in custody and may become new political prisoners. this is how dictators reciprocate. colleagues, it is regrettable to see eu policy on belarus looking like a self-repeating failure. this is so because some are attempting to curry favour with lukashenko.
only three years have passed since that day, since the events of maidan, and we have a great example of a country that told itself that it would change, that it wanted to see its future in europe, starting to make progress. yes, it took time because there was a lot of work to be done 72 criteria on which ukraine needed to make progress. we worked together, we walked together, we made progress. i congratulate the european union and ukraine on the great progress we have made together. this reaffirms the european union's openness to those countries which are moving forward. the good news for ukrainian citizens is that they will not be discriminated against and will be able to travel freely to the european union, just as european citizens can travel to ukraine. i hope that we can learn more about each other, dispel myths, dispel misinformation, and move forward together towards our common future.
we ask ourselves: what do our people in the eu countries need? do they need more social europe? we get a very clear answer: yes. people need jobs with a normal salary, people need social security, people need normal, decent pensions in old age, people need the opportunity to support their children, to send them to school, to give them a foundation in life. and let's ask, can we guarantee that today? i did. europe is not homogeneous: some countries can do more, others can do less, but that is why we are here, so that all the countries of the european union should have certain minimum social standards. they are simply necessary for the sake of our common european family. commissioner thyssen, i thank you from the bottom of my heart for the proposed work-life balance legislation. this is really the result of our long-term work together. as rapporteur of the owninitiative report to the european parliament on work-life balance, i am grateful that the commission has taken account of the european parliament's proposal that we need to have carers' leave for family members, for example, to look after disabled people. it's already five days a year - not much, but it's a start. and i'm also very grateful that we've offered paternity leave, paternity leave, 10 days, partly paid. this is good, because in some countries of the european union they are, in others they are not. this means that we will have a minimum basis for all the countries of the european union to have a child born and a father to have the opportunity to contribute to the child's upbringing. and finally, one thing that i'm really excited about is that i'm going to be a dad for four months, and a mom for four months, during my parental leave. and it will be partially paid for. thank you, but we have a lot of work to do together.
in writing. the ideals, principles and values embodied in european cultural heritage are a common source of european memory, understanding, identity, dialogue, cohesion and creativity. following the adoption of the european agenda for culture in 2007, cultural heritage has been a priority in subsequent council work plans in the field of culture, including the current 20152018 work plan. in november 2014, the council conclusions on the management of cultural heritage invited the commission to declare a european year of cultural heritage. the european parliament made a similar call in its resolution and invited the commission to 'declare 2018 the european year of heritage'. the commission argues that the contribution of cultural heritage to economic growth and social cohesion in europe is poorly understood and often underestimated. as in every european year, the main objective is to raise awareness of the problems and opportunities in a particular area and to highlight europe's role in finding common solutions. the european year of cultural heritage should offer european citizens new opportunities to better understand the present through a broader common interpretation of the past.
in writing. in 2008, a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council on a european qualifications framework for lifelong learning was adopted, which aims to increase the transparency, comparability and transferability of qualifications in europe. this recommendation invited member states to link their qualifications systems and levels to the eight levels of the european qualifications framework by 2010 and to indicate the level of the european lifelong learning qualifications framework in newly issued certificates or diplomas by 2012. the objectives of the european qualifications framework are not yet fully achieved and the european commission is already proposing to revise the system on the basis of a new council recommendation. it would therefore be important to know whether this new recommendation will help to ensure equal opportunities in a knowledge-based society and better link education and training systems, and whether it will help to match the supply of skills with the demand in the labour market. these questions are important because the eu's education and training systems differ, making it difficult to assess what a person knows, knows and can do after having been educated in another country. insufficient understanding does not give confidence in the quality and content of qualifications acquired in another member state. the lack of confidence in such qualifications makes it more difficult for workers with them to develop professionally, to be employed, to obtain promotions and further training, and to move freely within the eu. it is therefore essential to have a proper understanding and assessment of existing skills and qualifications in order to help them to be acquired or upgraded, as this will help to better match the skills supply with the needs of the labour market.
for the verts/ale group thank you, madam president, commissioner, colleagues. it is difficult to overestimate the role of customs services and the importance of national customs cooperation both in combating illegal trade and in ensuring that legitimate trade flows as smoothly and efficiently as possible. i can therefore only welcome the interest of parliament's committee on international trade in this subject and the report it has produced. unfortunately, the content of the report does not convince me that it is worth supporting. i say this as a member of the green group and as a former mayor of a border municipality in the european union. the report also lacks measures to combat unjustified increases in traffic and pollution. i also cannot agree with the argument put forward by the rapporteur to transfer responsibility for customs activities from the national to the european union level. thank you. thank you.
for the efdd group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i think we are discussing a question which is wrong in a sense. if globalization is good for society, it should not have negative consequences. if we are prepared to accept the opposite in advance and to discuss the negative consequences of globalisation today, then we must accept a priori that the appropriate level of european and global policy is not, has not been and will not be able to ensure that society is protected from the negative consequences of globalisation in the future. so today, it might be much more interesting to discuss not the harm of globalization, but the question of a universal european union referendum on whether or not the member states of the community should approve of the methods of operation of transatlantic companies and the restriction of monopolies, on the taxation of global companies, at least as far as taxation of small and medium-sized businesses is concerned.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's presentation of a paper on globalisation and its initiative to open discussions. the growing fear of globalisation and its threats among citizens is felt everywhere, and the positive aspects of the phenomenon identified by the commission have not dispelled this fear. it is not enough to debate, we must show our citizens that we are not passive observers of the globalisation process and that we are able to meet citizens' expectations and to take the best from the globalisation process. of course, we need not be closed in on ourselves, but we must learn to protect our interests more effectively. concrete solutions in tax policy, education and the labour market are needed to bring complex social, economic and cultural processes under control. more appropriate and wider application of the principle of reciprocity is needed. a socially sustainable and competitive knowledge society must enable citizens in their countries not only to respond flexibly to changes in the labour market, but also to exploit globalisation as an opportunity to expand borders, to meet cultures and to work together to build a new world of the future.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, which unfortunately highlights a negative trend in fraudulent practices in the eu, which increased by 36% in comparison to 2014. it is apparent that there are still many legislative loopholes which need to be addressed when it comes to identifying and tackling fraudulent financial activity among the members of the european union. in order to reverse this trend and protect eu financial interest, enhanced cooperation at eu level and between eu bodies and the member state competent authorities is crucial. in addition, i strongly agree that olaf as an institution should work more efficiently; investigations must be shortened and recommendations to the member states better enforced. finally, it is time to value seriously the role of whistle-blowers in disclosing irregular practices. whistle-blower protection should be made a clear priority.
we are well aware, madam high representative, of the efforts of the european union and the international community in general to resolve the conflict in syria. but time is running out, the war has been going on for six years, and there is no peace in syria. the european union's initiatives, particularly in the field of civilian protection and humanitarian aid to the syrian people, deserve respect. but they do not resolve the conflict. the london and brussels conferences are also good initiatives, but what is needed most is a political solution and a settlement of the conflict, and peace in syria. how do we, the european union, generally look in this geopolitical game? you argue that the european union has the potential to play a more important role in the peaceful settlement of the conflict in this country. so why don't we take advantage of those opportunities, if they exist? we've already heard today about your contacts in iran that could be exploited. if there is an opportunity, let's take it. you visited moscow at the end of april. i hope they talked about syria. in general, is russia still de facto involved in the geneva process? is there any hope that they will change their position on supporting assad? these are the questions we are waiting to hear. thank you. thank you.
madam president, madam mogherini, according to reports, persecution of christians has risen worldwide for three years in a row. in total more than 200 million christians live in countries where they are subject to hostility, which ranges from constant pressure, social discrimination and harassment to physical violence, imprisonment and death. christians are now killed in more countries than ever before and are persecuted in more countries than any other religious group. for those of us who have been following the story of christian persecution, this news does not come as a surprise. instead, it serves as a sad confirmation of what we have been witnessing over the past few years. in the middle east, christians’ homes and churches have been destroyed, their cross torn down and smashed, and bibles burned to ashes. but the worst stories are those of decapitations, mass executions and torture. we must ask ourselves, how long will we allow christians to be the most persecuted people in the world? until there are none left in the middle east? until they are wiped out in other parts of the world? it is time to act. the eu must come to the aid of those who are suffering persecution because of their christian faith – and we can certainly do more. i urge you, madam high representative, to keep the issue of the persecution of christians high on your agenda.
author. – mr president, colleagues, mr commissioner, the brutal anti-gay campaign in the authoritarian chechnya of kadyrov is yet another example of how little, if anything, human rights mean in this part of russia today. the ongoing terror against and prosecution of opposition, human rights activists and journalists has now been extended into targeting the lgbti minority. unfortunately, the crimes in chechnya are not an isolated campaign. it is only a common denominator representing the state of human rights in russia as a whole. let us recall that in march this year russia has adopted a backwards legislation decriminalising domestic violence, and now we are witnessing this. we, the european union, must make sure that our policy towards russia reflects seriously the crimes against the lgbti minority in chechnya. it should be clear from the very start that it is unacceptable. homophobia belongs to the shameful past. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, as a standing co-rapporteur on implementation of the eu-moldova association agreement, i will speak in a very frank and sincere way. i do so, as i feel very high responsibility for where moldova is heading to, as it soon might become crucial and hardly reversible. today, it is time to pronounce: quo vadis moldova? being a rapporteur, i must admit i am lately not that sure of how seriously a status of eu associated partner is perceived by the moldovan authorities. this partnership is not at all abstract. it means certain obligations and deliverables, not only yet another credit line being opened. by partnership we expect first and foremost that a certain european-style political culture is to prevail in moldova. in europe, free and independent media is in the interest of everyone, as openness and difference of opinions is a catalyst of change and public discourse. in europe the election laws are designed to ensure fair competition of people’s minds, and not to create privileges for some and eliminate others. in europe, justice is what everyone has the right to; there must be no place for selective trials behind the closed doors. i therefore want to appeal to the moldovan government as follows: do not be misled with the wrong assumption that brussels is big, blind, far away and always ready to sign another cheque. instead of calling yourself a european coalition name, come up with the real deeds, real change handled in a european way. we expect from you, moldova.
mr president, there are just reasons in the air in this parliament, reasons that are not spoken, for making the exit mechanism as difficult as possible for the british, so that others will never, under any circumstances, even think of leaving the european union. it reminds me of the times when the lithuanian people had already declared their desire to be free and independent. lithuania was also discussed in terms of an orderly withdrawal from the soviet union and many other things were discussed. how many billions it owes for the occupation, how many obligations it has to the great fatherland, and how it will have to cover them if lithuania really leaves. the most surprising provision is the one that the council is advocating: if the uk is no longer subject to the union's agreements after its withdrawal, what logic and what basis is there to demand that britain should abide by all its international obligations assumed as a member of the european union after its withdrawal.
mr president, this report focuses on fintech, which is referred to as ‘finance enabled by new technologies’. new financial technologies are a source of great financial opportunities for the eu and its citizens, although to enjoy benefits without paying additional costs we need the right legislative framework in place. i voted in favour of this report as i see very significant benefits of fintech, such as cost reduction, efficiency gains and enhanced transparency when it comes to investment and cross—border financial flows. moreover, we need to see financial technologies as a tool for the eu to develop a digital single market and remain competitive at the global scale. however, i share the cautiousness of the rapporteur that there are still many grey areas with new financial technologies, and thus, while working on the competitiveness of the european economy, we also need to think about ensuring consumer protection, cyber security and the stability of the eu financial system.
in writing. today we are talking about a free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of korea, which is of great importance for the european economy. this is the first of a new generation of free trade agreements that the eu has concluded with an asian partner. importantly, in addition to the elimination of tariffs, the agreement also includes provisions on the removal of non-tariff barriers, creating new market entry opportunities in the services and investment sectors, as well as in areas such as intellectual property, public procurement and competition policy. the agreement will thus serve as a model for future free trade agreements. the implementation of this agreement should be supported as it is beneficial for eu businesses. let us not forget that we have a trade surplus of eur 2.5 billion with this country. further deepening of trade and investment links between the eu and korea, in particular under the provisions of the investment chapter of the free trade agreement, is highly welcome. in this case, it should be noted that the commission would not use the old investor-state dispute settlement method in the negotiations, but would create a new investment court system on the basis of a proposal which has already been discussed in this parliament. in the long term, the multilateral investment court system could replace all investment dispute settlement systems in current and future free trade agreements. the agreement with korea could be the beginning of the use of this system.
for the verts/ale group thank you, mr president, and commissioner. the financial mechanism of the european economic area is, i would say, a great instrument to help bring the new european union countries and the norwegian community closer together, to promote cohesion and mutual understanding. i say this as a former mayor with experience in this work and in the application of this mechanism. in lithuania, as in other beneficiary countries, we have developed an effective system of managing the funds received, involving local authorities and civil society. this cooperation is also important for the rest of the european union, as its main objective is to promote progressive, sustainable and inclusive growth, reducing economic and social disparities between countries and contributing to the sustainable development of the continent as a whole. so i suggest we leave him alone and make a deal as soon as possible.
for the verts/ale group the increasing use of financial instruments in cohesion policy, which has become more and more common in the last commission term, is a matter of legitimate concern. cohesion policy is designed to help the less developed regions. it is clear that, in market conditions, more competitive players are raising more funds. in the case of regional policy, these are the richer regions. so, by allowing financial instruments to be widely used, it's clear that we're not just going to exploit the poor, but we're going to exploit the rich. personally, i really don't want that. as the green group's shadow rapporteur, i therefore call on you to vote in favour of this report. it has, i thank the rapporteur, made a proper assessment of the risks posed by the use of financial instruments. and it's not just increasing regional inequality. it's about ambiguity, it's about strengthening the partnership principle, and so much more. the report also managed to strike the right balance between cohesion policy and the philosophy of cohesion, while not ruling out the possibility of exploiting the potential of financial instruments where appropriate. colleague, ruža tomašić's report is about an important and sometimes ignored topic. the european union is spending tens of billions of taxpayer euros on cohesion policy. the european union has established the rules for the use of this aid. accordingly, the european union must also ensure that member states have sufficient capacity to make good use of this assistance. until now, technical assistance has been financed from the cohesion budget. unfortunately, in most cases this support remained at national level and rarely reached the regional level, let alone the municipal level. and then there are communities below the municipal level. let us not forget that community-led local development is becoming an increasingly important instrument of cohesion policy. thank you for your attention.
i think we can all agree that ukraine is an important partner of the european union. we don't find many who object to the idea that ukraine needs help. we will also have no difficulty in reaching a consensus because of the limited scope for european union financial assistance. as for what europe can do to help its partners, i would like to remind you that even the cohesion countries derive the greatest benefit not from the support of the european union but from the effect of the single market. it is the freedom to trade in the world's largest single market that is driving its participants to modernise and increase their competitiveness. by welcoming more of ukraine into the european union, we will together achieve that a larger part of the european economy and ukrainian society will not only be more interested in aligning with europe, but also in keeping the country's authorities on the path of european integration.
i think there are two aspects to be considered when we are considering the application of the common system of preferences to sri lanka. after three decades of civil war and terrorism, sri lanka is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. its growth last year was over 16 percent, almost double the corresponding figures in the region. this is largely due to the access to the single market of the european union that the gsp provides. accordingly, the european union, as a community based on values, has, i would say, a duty to ensure that a state which makes use of the opportunities offered by the european union does not also infringe its values. in this context, i believe that the commission has a great opportunity to start setting a policy precedent by continuously assessing the degree to which countries benefiting from easier access to the single market are adhering to european values.
in writing. to remain a global industrial leader, the eu needs to promote digitalisation, especially in regions lagging behind. i would therefore like to stress the importance of ensuring an eu industrial digital governance framework that would facilitate the coordination of national initiatives and platforms for industrial digitisation. i therefore tabled amendments to the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the digitisation of european industry, in order to emphasise that well-developed language technologies can help industry to overcome language barriers and thus open up opportunities for the development of the digital market. as the impact of language barriers on industry has not yet been sufficiently reflected and assessed in the digital market documents, i would like to call for the development of language technologies which, together with the digitisation of industry, would reduce the fragmentation of the european market and increase the accessibility of various services to the citizens of the european union.
for the efdd group this speech in the european parliament about the use of the media for political purposes in the czech republic and based on just one example, which to me looks more like a provocation than an agreement, is a clear intrusion into the political processes of a sovereign state and the struggle between local parties. let us consider just a few facts. former czech finance minister babič is accused of influencing the media and using it to deal with political opponents. today he is the leader of the rapidly gaining popularity of the czech centrist party and the most popular politician in the czech republic. the former czech prime minister sobotka leads the social democrats, whose popularity is declining. clearly, the globalist forces of europe cannot accept this situation. and today we are participating in a spectacle in which the european commission, some meps, play the leading roles. the rest are intended to be used as decorations to create an impression of reality. this is not a debate, this is a new act in a long-running play. a show whose directors have one goal in mind, how to put in place politicians and political parties that gain the public's trust. perhaps even more so, separate sovereign states that dare to think and act for themselves. hungary, poland, now the czech republic. what's next? if we really want to talk about politics and the influence of politics on the media, then perhaps we should recall the cases in sweden and germany, where attempts were made to cover up criminal attacks by migrants against citizens of those countries, and for a time, they succeeded. and what if the media is influenced by politicians? where is the european commission's initiative to start discussions on media freedom and political influence in the swedish or german media? so what is this hypocrisy and hypocrisy? we know very well that many media outlets in many countries of the world have long been dependent on both political and business whims. the media are increasingly becoming a tool at the service of politics and even a catalyst for certain political processes. so instead of a spectacle about the risks of using the media for political purposes in the czech republic, perhaps we should start a serious discussion about the role of the media in politics and the problems of political influence on the media.
the visa sticker document in question is certainly not controversial. the european union visas, like those issued by any other country, must be genuine. such a goal seems obvious. and it has to be done. we must therefore support this report. at the same time, this question opens up a much wider problem of document forgery and the fight against it. it is understood that technical measures would be sufficient in this particular case to make it more difficult to counterfeit eu visa stickers, at least by means of the tools available on the market. however, we must not forget that there are extensive networks of such forgers, both outside the european union and, often, within the european union, closely linked to illicit trafficking, human trafficking and other crimes. we should pay more attention to combating them, both at european union level and by encouraging our partner countries to do so. this issue is becoming particularly relevant along the external eastern borders of the european union, and not only in the areas bordering the conflict regions, but also along the external borders of the european union in general.
in writing. the main instrument at international level which sets out the rules of international law on the protection of adults is the hague convention of 13 january 2000. it provides important rules for dealing with the cross-border problems of vulnerable adults, i.e. persons over 18 years of age who are temporarily or permanently unable to take care of themselves and/or their property. however, more than 17 years after its adoption, it has been signed by nine states and ratified by seven. one of the cornerstones of eu law is the free movement of persons. a person who is already or may be subject to protection measures in one country can move to another member state and acquire assets in several eu member states. however, there is no single eu legislation that would allow vulnerable adults to receive adequate protection in cross-border cases. these circumstances may prevent such persons from exercising their freedom of movement and make it more difficult to protect their property. addressing this legal gap would allow vulnerable adults to fully benefit from the eu principles of free movement and residence and avoid potential difficulties in protecting themselves and their property. all member states have their own legal systems with different safeguards for vulnerable adults and the aim of this proposal is not to harmonise existing safeguards but to establish legal rules which would facilitate the recognition and enforcement of decisions taken by the authorities of one member state in others and cooperation between states in this field.
madam president, i voted in favour of this excellent and innovative report. the 5g network presents our societies and the european union’s industry with new and great digital possibilities by enabling new connectivity opportunities via both high-quality and high-capacity networks. in addition, i fully agree with the idea expressed in the report that in order to seize these opportunities we need to ensure that the necessary conditions to develop 5g infrastructure are in place by 2020-25 and, i hope, much earlier, namely: a transparent, competitive and investment-friendly regulatory framework, and a willingness from eu member states to create a much-needed common network of operability at the eu level.
madam president, i did indeed vote in favour of this report on the commission’s proposal suggesting additional temporary economic trade preferences for ukraine. we need to understand that ukraine is at the moment undergoing enormous economic difficulties and at the same time undertaking very complex economic reforms. therefore, i believe that this commission proposal is both timely and right. it is complementary to the already existing eu concessions and the dcfta trade preferences, and will allow increasing annual tariff rate quotas for certain products. i believe it will help to speed up ukraine’s economic recovery, deal with the consequences of the ongoing embargo from the russian side and further facilitate bilateral trade relations between ukraine and the european union.
in writing. under horizon 2020, gender equality and the gender dimension as a complex issue are integrated into each separate part of the work programme and this programme defines three mainstreaming objectives, namely to promote equal opportunities and gender balance in project groups, to ensure gender balance in decision-making and to integrate the gender dimension into research and innovation content, which should be of high quality. i welcome the fact that horizon 2020 is helping research institutions to implement gender equality plans, for example, in 2014 and 2015, the participation of women in horizon 2020 advisory groups reached 52%. however, i believe that another review is needed, based on reliable and comparable indicators, such as the percentage of women involved in the activities of this programme and coordinating projects under the programme. i also believe that the budget allocated to horizon 2020 needs to be increased to increase the number of universities and research institutions involved, and that it is important to encourage member states to facilitate the access of researchers and women to grants in order to promote equality in scientific careers and to increase competitiveness in the eu. finally, i would urge the member states to further enhance the integration of the gender dimension in horizon 2020 and the future ninth framework programme, to support and strengthen the dialogue between research institutions, enterprises and relevant social partners, and to set gender equality targets in strategies, programmes and projects at all stages of the research cycle.
mr president, cohesion policy’s title sounds different in all official eu languages but the meaning remains very much the same. a more accelerated national economic and social development, more rapid economic growth and increasing employment: this is the value added of cohesion policy. cohesion policy encourages solidarity between eu regions and contributes to the strengthening of the eu single market. it is therefore beneficial not only for the less, but also for the more, developed member states. in future, cohesion policy should be more flexible, while at the same time based on reasonable conditionalities. while implementing long-term investment goals it should also be able to contribute to meeting the new challenges. for example, to ease the effects of the economic and financial crisis, to react to migration and refugees’ integration challenges, to deal with climate change, the digital agenda, innovation demand and energy safety issues, amongst many. in order to retain its attractiveness cohesion policy should also be more simplified in all areas such as audit, state aid, public procurement and financial instruments, and i hope it is all achievable.
mr president, this report is a big step forward towards awareness raising and the search for concrete solutions regarding the causes of statelessness and discrimination against stateless people in south and south east asia. as a shadow rapporteur, i am very pleased to see that the emphasis in the report is on the identification and elimination of statelessness via empowerment of regional human rights bodies, coordination between states, and the encouragement of quantitative and qualitative research. we draw particular attention to the rohingyas’ situation in myanmar, where there are up to 1.2 million people denied basic human rights. in addition, we have called for examination of the role which the european union can play in addressing this problem.
the story of the alleged monsanto documents has raised scandalous questions in the public eye. could it be that executive agencies of the european union, such as the european food safety authority and the european chemicals agency, are not only enforcing european union law but also following monsanto's instructions? i don't want to believe that, but i have to admit that these accusations are greatly reinforced by the uncompromising position that these two agencies have taken in saying that glyphosate is not harmful to human health and is rapidly degrading. i would like to believe that this glyphosate scandal will be the threshold from which the commission will begin to assess potentially harmful substances more responsibly. this should be done by independent scientists, not by the authorities, and the results of the research should be clear, publicly available and verifiable by the scientific community.
mr president, i fully support the rapporteur’s stance on amending the commission’s proposals on climate action regulation implementing the paris agreement. the amended proposal focuses on long—term predictability and energy efficiency, and aims to provide sufficient flexibility for the member states. you know that, to achieve a proper implementation of the paris climate change agreement, it is very important to think beyond the 2030 target, which is precisely what the amended regulation proposes by setting out a long-term objective towards at least 80 % greenhouse gas emissions reductions by 2050. although, i would be glad to see a bit more flexibility in terms of encouraging member states’ contribution to climate action in terms of agriculture and forestry activities.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, and we can agree that serbia, as an aspiring country to eu membership, has been committed towards the continuous reform process necessary for successful integration. serbia has shown progress in terms of economic reforms and institutional reforms by continuing to implement the stabilisation and association agreement. however, there is still a lot to be done in terms of tackling corruption, ensuring judiciary independence and freedom of media and improving serbia’s relations with all its neighbours, as well as establishing a properly functioning legal framework for the protection of the minorities in the country. moreover, i fully support the call on serbia to take serious steps to align its foreign policy to the eu line, and in have serious questions on the real aims behind the so—called slavic brotherhood and whom exactly this brotherhood is directed against.
on behalf of the s&d group it is no coincidence that child poverty is on the agenda of our plenary today. i have listened carefully to the speakers of both the presidency and commissioner moscovici and i have learned from your speeches that both the council and the commission are well aware that child poverty in the european union is a huge problem. and what can we say we did? is the situation improving? no, it's not getting any better. this means that the instruments used by the member states, the instruments at european level, are not sufficient. our s&d group has repeatedly called on the commission to come forward with a european child guarantee and it would certainly be a concrete measure with concrete funding. yes, there are many european funds, millions to name but do they reach children? has that changed the situation? no, the situation has not really changed; it is actually getting worse. so i really welcome the fact that the maltese presidency has said that the pillar of social rights is the children's guarantee, the european child guarantee. will the commission really make a specific proposal? that children have direct access to health care, to adequate housing, to adequate food, to adequate education. because look, we already have the european youth guarantee, but isn't that the same vicious circle? we don't just start investing later. we have to invest in children from the beginning, so they don't live, they don't fall into that vicious cycle of poverty. i ask you with all my heart, people are tired of talking, we need action, we need a european child guarantee.
i think that the issue is important enough and varies from country to country - it is less important in some countries and more important in others - but it must address the issues that are so pervasive today, especially in countries with low employment and low incomes. not only must jobs be created, but those jobs must be paid fairly. otherwise we will not solve the differences between regions in individual countries and the differences between countries in europe. if we do not tackle these issues together, we will not be able to manage migration processes - both internal migration processes and external migration processes. and i see another tool in this -- it's to involve more local authorities, specifically in industrial development, and to link the benefits that industry gets to local government, to local people, so that they're interested in it.
author. – madam president, we all – and people of azerbaijan in particular – need a democracy and value-based partnership, but not an illusion of it. only full respect of basic freedoms and the rule of law will enable us to build solid and lasting political and trade relations. otherwise, this partnership will be simply doomed, as it proved to be in the cases of russia and turkey, among others. therefore, the abducted journalist afgan mukhtarli must be immediately released and officially pardoned by baku. prompt and transparent investigation must be conducted in both georgia and azerbaijan. finally, the release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners must be at the core of the partnership agreement. this is where the eu must stand firm. today, we have to repeat it once again: baku and tbilisi must be partners in the investigation, and we have to receive all and final information on this case, otherwise there are many doubts about future partnerships.
in writing. respect for human rights and the rule of law must be a priority for every state. it is therefore essential that pakistan make concrete progress and implement its adopted human rights action plan in a timely and proper manner. the country is experiencing a growing religious intolerance. the blasphemy law reinforces discrimination and fuels hatred and violence. in addition, the use of the death penalty for blasphemy is in violation of pakistan's international obligations to respect and protect human rights, including freedom of religion and expression. in this context, it is essential that the government of pakistan take immediate action to bring the provisions of its national legislation on the death penalty into line with international law and standards and to make visible progress in this regard.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, moldova’s future depends on much more than yet another financial tranche. plans to change the election system are received with such great caution in both brussels and strasbourg, and rightly so. even more importantly, in moldova the opposition parties and civil society at large are alarmed and protesting. everyone is asking for a fair european debate and a consensus—based decision and we do not see this happening. instead we read today about yet another political party leaving the consultations on election law. i wish to draw the attention of this house to the joint statement of all eu institutions that the commissioner has just mentioned, which is an integral part of the decision and which makes very clear reference to the venice commission recommendations. it is crucial to ensure that these recommendations are fully respected. we must also make sure that we are sending the right message to the moldovan people, as there is a high risk of manipulation and political misinterpretation. moldova does indeed have certain privileges, but it has very serious duties. i do hope that everyone in moldova understands this and i wish for great cooperation with moldova when it comes to all the issues in front of us.
for the efdd group malta's first presidency was not only a challenge for this small and young european union state, but above all a challenge for the european union as a whole. how much solidarity it will bring and how it will help and contribute to the achievement of the great challenges and ambitious goals. this was only possible with the obvious support of all, and above all of the major countries of the european union, and the desire to make europe truly democratic. not demonize, but democratize, as malta's prime minister, john muscat, said at the beginning of his presidency. and i quote, "let's not blame people for how they vote, but let's focus on what they're worried about". one of the key tasks of the maltese presidency - to find a compromise in the debate on the new european asylum system - has thus not been achieved, and not through malta's fault. the european union needs to fundamentally change its policies on immigration and counterterrorism. until that is done, we will continue to enjoy only paper achievements in various reports.
madam president, first of all, i want to react to ms forenza’s absolutely unacceptable language about ukraine: ukraine is under aggression from the russian federation, which came to the eastern part of ukraine and supported so—called separatists who are in favour of killing their former countrymen. russia – not any country – came to crimea and occupied and annexed that part of ukraine. the eu is not coming to ukraine with weapons, but is extending a hand of cooperation and trade. this is the best track: to improve the economic situation in ukraine, to help people to raise up economic developments and to look to ukraine as a future partner. i will never be aligned with statements like this – calling ukraine a fascist country. that is completely wrong. (applause)
i think we can take a positive view of the eu-cuba political dialogue and cooperation agreement. it is not perfect, as always, it is a political compromise that the parties have managed to reach. it reflects our pragmatic view that at least what is stated in the agreement will be implemented. i would stress that progress in eu-cuba relations must be based on further democratisation of cuban society and respect for human rights. the eu should apply the more for more principle: taking into account the progress in cuban public life, the implementation of citizens' right to vote and to stand for election, and allowing more space for civil society and private business. human rights guarantees must be unquestionable, or our deal with cuba will become a deal without honor.
in writing. – i support the approach of the joint communication presented in the report which identifies three work streams: supporting culture as an engine for sustainable social and economic development, promoting culture and intercultural dialogue for peaceful inter-community relations, and reinforcing cooperation on cultural heritage. only by targeting all three mentioned areas can we reach positive results. also, the role of independent media in promoting cultural diversity and intercultural competences is significant and we need to assure their effective functioning when sharing credible information, especially in the eu neighbourhood states. we have already created a good background for strengthening cultural diversity – the erasmus + programme serves here as the best example. however, we have to involve other eu programmes such as horizon 2020 and cosme in order to cover the strategy for international cultural relations and boost it.
economic growth, trade, taxes, as a rule, are the central themes of such meetings. but what i don't understand is how is it that as economies grow more and more every year, expanding more and more into so-called good trade deals, presenting globalization as an advantage, global society becomes poorer and more expensive to feed? could it be due to income inequality, global corporate and bank agreements, capital growth without social responsibility? is the economy also being developed for something other than the welfare of society? income inequality, the risk of poverty, the permanent unemployment of millions of people are the most important problems today. far more important is the proper use of economic growth to create the common good, by rationally investing the money earned and redistributing the income to the enrichment of society rather than to the profit-making of individual corporations.
i would like to congratulate and wish success to our baltic sister estonia, who is taking over the presidency of the european union at a particularly important time. it has put forward a serious and ambitious programme, but it also faces the challenge of leading the debate on the future of the cap. the european union must ensure fair conditions of competition and therefore the areas it supports must be equally supported in all countries. i hope that we will also succeed in finalising the 'omnibus' regulation, which will also include provisions on the flexibility of coupled support. i believe that estonia will also be able to organise the solution to another key challenge - the construction of nord stream 2. this issue is a test of the european union's solidarity and solidarity with its partners, a key step in thwarting the ambitions of the current russian regime. i wish you the best of luck in your presidency.
in writing. i congratulate estonia on its first presidency of the council of the eu on 1 july this year and wish it success and contribute to the much needed solutions to ensure the well-being of eu citizens. having read the programme of the estonian presidency and heard the presentation of the priorities, i would like to welcome the fact that estonia is emphasising the importance of gender equality, including support for work-life balance, in order to ensure that the growing demand for skilled labour is met. the unequal division of labour in caring for children, the elderly and other dependent family members affects women's participation in the labour market and men's participation in family life. i therefore welcome estonia's intention to continue the debate on reconciling family life so that women can participate more actively in the labour market and their burden of family concerns is reduced. i would also like to congratulate the estonian government on its presidency programme for emphasising that all europeans must have equal opportunities to acquire the necessary skills, a high-quality education, to find a job or to access services in order to ensure the sustainability of society and the economic and social well-being of europe. it is important to maintain high social guarantees for all eu citizens in order to ensure adequately the free movement of persons, workers and services. at the same time, i would urge the estonian government to keep in mind other very important issues, such as the fight against gender-based violence, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the reduction of the gender pay and pension gap and women on company boards and decision-making positions.
the decision on the european fund for sustainable development is certainly important for europe as a whole. it is important in our quest to expand and strengthen the area of security and stability around the european union. i hope that this report will be adopted by a large majority of the members of the european parliament. i would like to emphasise that this fund should contribute to the sustainable development goals, to ensuring stability and to promoting private capital investment not only in africa but also in our eastern neighbourhood. it is of particular importance that the potential of the fund is maximalised in the eastern neighbourhood of the european union, the eastern partnership countries and ukraine in particular, as the stability and economic sustainability of the eastern neighbourhood are of major importance for the future of europe as a whole.
in writing. the needs of the outermost regions have been taken into account in the european union for several years. however, they are still under-represented and the methods used vary widely depending on the aspects considered by the different directorates-general of the european commission. this creates weaknesses in legislative cohesion, which are the direct reasons for the lack of cooperation between the eu and the outermost countries. the report rightly calls on the commission, the council, the member states concerned and the outermost regions to work together to ensure that these countries are better integrated, taking full account of their specific characteristics and needs. we should find solutions to specific problems in each case, in order to ensure that all countries have access to all horizontal european union programmes. particular attention should be paid to agricultural policy. in the remote countries, we should encourage more diversification of agriculture, with special regard to the so-called traditional agricultural sectors, especially within the framework of the common market organisation. more than ever, it is necessary to ensure coherence between policy strategies so that the efforts of the different agricultural sectors in the outermost regions to modernise and increase competitiveness are not undermined by free trade agreements between the european union and third countries. sadly, this happens all too often. protecting the european agricultural market should always be our priority.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report and i would like to note that we have already adopted one resolution on turkey in relation to the failed military coup in july 2016. in that resolution, despite highlighting that turkey remains a strategic partner of the eu, we expressed serious concern about the multiple incompatibilities with progress towards accession, and called for a temporary freeze of turkey’s eu accession talks. however, it seems that, since then, the situation has only got worse and that the one-man rule is being strengthened. we have seen continuous arrests, a referendum to authorise undemocratic constitutional changes, and far—reaching censorship of the media. i believe that the situation in turkey can no longer be ignored. if the constitutional reforms package is implemented as it stands now, the eu must stop its accession talks with turkey immediately, as well as the pre-accession assistance funding.
mr president, i voted in favour of this revised european external investment plan proposed by the commission. despite being convinced that official development assistance should remain the main source of support to developing countries, i am happy to see that private investment will be used in africa and the in the eu eastern and southern neighbourhoods as part of a broader strategy to keep migration at bay. it is essential to address the root causes of migration by creating jobs, supporting the development of small and medium-sized businesses and facilitating inclusive growth. the main advantage of the plan is the newly designed instrument, the european fund for sustainable development fund, and its guarantee which, with the contributions of the european investment bank, will be employed to attract public and private investment and manage risks. i believe this approach will help to produce a sufficient investment-generation process through the instrument we supported, and by providing viable technical assistance to all countries in need.
thank you, chairman, and colleagues. stopping climate change is without a doubt one of the most important issues of the day. using forests as a means of carbon capture, even on the most modest estimates, will be cheaper and more efficient than any improvement in hydrocarbon engines that is possible today. the regulation under discussion today should help and become a great tool to help forestry to reduce climate change. it would be more helpful if the commission had not made a few mistakes. in particular, the provision that, in its proposal, forests growing in the year 1999 were climate-neutral during the historical reference period. the envi committee has been able to improve this document somewhat and it is now ready for support. at the same time, we should remember that the aim of european regulation in this area must be to strengthen the motivation of both the member states and the rest of the world to grow more forests as a means of curbing climate change. i'm still missing that in this document. thank you. thank you.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to comment on this draft resolution, which is very much in line with the commission’s own policy and strategy. on 30 may, we published an education package, which contains actions spanning from early childhood education and care to higher education, and which includes a strong focus on both digital and lifelong learning. the package takes account of developments and issues that have a direct impact on education – such as globalisation, digitalisation, diversity and exclusion – and considers how best to support people of all ages in developing the skills that they will need to thrive both personally and professionally. many of the actions are very relevant to the recommendations in the draft resolution. the commission communication on ‘school development and excellent teaching for a great start in life’ starts from the assumption that high-quality education for all will help europe achieve its economic and social objectives while fostering the personal and professional developments of european citizens. i would like to thank you for highlighting the importance of erasmus+ and horizon 2020 for enhancing lifelong learning, and for the call to bridge technological gaps between educational institutions across europe and to connect schools to ultra-fast internet, thus addressing the digital divide and ensuring equal opportunities for all students. i would also like to thank you for your acknowledgment in your report of the work done through the etwinning and school education gateway platforms. in order to improve learning outcomes, inclusiveness and equity in school education, the commission plans to further promote participation in those online platforms. further actions planned of particular relevance include a digital capacity self-assessment tool based on the digital competence framework and called ‘selfie’, which enables schools in the european union, on a voluntary basis, to self-evaluate where they stand in relation to common criteria on the effective use of technologies for digital age learning, and how they can further improve. in addition, through erasmus+, we will support improvements in school-level education in science, technologies, engineering and maths by promoting best practice in developing links and cooperation between higher education, research, businesses and schools at european union level. i would also like to highlight three initiatives within our renewed european union agenda for higher education that are relevant to your draft resolution. we will develop and implement a digital readiness model to help higher education institutions, their staff and students to implement digital learning strategies and exploit the potential of technology. we will provide support through erasmus+ for higher education teachers, doctoral candidates and postdoctoral graduates to develop pedagogical and curriculum design skills, including in digital learning. also through erasmus+, we will promote the development and testing of flexible and modular course design. let me also mention the commission’s support for research and innovation projects under horizon 2020, developing ict applications for education and training, making learning more effective, engaging and collaborative. we are also conscious of the importance of youth work in supporting young people from disadvantaged backgrounds in developing digital skills and competences. the commission welcomes, therefore, the reference to recognising competences gained outside the formal education system. last but not least, we should emphasise the important role of erasmus+ and horizon 2020 in supporting innovation in all sectors of education, and for people of all ages. for the next three years (2018-2020) erasmus+ will implement the ‘digital opportunity scheme’, supporting internships to develop digital skills. through our horizon 2020 stakeholders, as well as through the digital skills and jobs coalition, we have been mobilising companies to offer more internships in this field, strengthening europe’s innovation capacity. one of the eu’s most successful programmes, erasmus+ contributes to promoting growth and jobs, developing skills and promoting european values and social cohesion. over the last 30 years, it has had an impact on the personal and professional lives of more than nine million participants, within and outside europe. among others, it funds etwinning, promoting cooperation between schools through distance learning. there are clear and strong messages at the highest political level regarding the crucial role of erasmus+ in supporting the goals of the rome declaration, specifically ‘a union where young people receive the best education and training and can study and find jobs across the continent’. the recommendations within this draft resolution will provide us with much inspiration in our continued work to provide the best possible support to people of all ages on their lifelong learning journey.
in writing. – i want to thank the rapporteur for this own-initiative report. the topic of e-learning is very important in europe. it gives a lot of opportunities to people, regardless of their age, sex or social status. easier access to education should be the standard universally applied, but in practice that is not the case, unfortunately. for example, it is hard for poorer people to obtain access to education. working mothers might face difficulties juggling their family responsibilities, work and education. furthermore, people with specific needs finds it hard to participate in traditional education. that is why i see e-learning as an optimal solution which can make access to education much better and more efficient, as well as reduce the social gap between different classes of societies in member states. i believe that e-learning will become the new traditional form of education due to digitalisation of all spheres of our lives.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. in the context of the fipronil egg scandal that has affected the european union as a whole and even hong kong, i would like to stress the importance of having a system in place to respond in a timely and expeditious manner to similar scandals and to prevent a serious escalation of the threat. the european union is a huge market, and it is natural that similar scandals should occur from time to time. however, i think we can be pleased with the way the relevant authorities have handled this case. on the other hand, the scandal also raises questions about other examples, such as glyphosate residues in food. could this be a great opportunity to turn to consumer expectations and re-open the discussion about what products we want on our table?
turkey is a candidate country for the european union. it is a member of the council of europe. this implies that human rights and freedoms should be respected in turkey. but it's not. what we see happening in turkey, we don't like. turkey is our neighbour and partner, a particularly important partner. in particular, in areas such as trade or the management of the migrant crisis, and the security and defence of the european union. the eu-turkey dialogue is open, although not always easy, as commissioner hahn said. it would be easier to end the negotiations than to continue them. but i think that if we stop negotiating, if we cut off all contact, we're going to get the opposite of what we want. the european union would lose more than it would gain.
mr president, venezuela is in the midst of an unprecedented economic and political crisis marked by severe food and medicine shortages, soaring crime rates and an increasingly authoritarian executive. the international community is raising serious concerns that venezuela is slipping into dictatorship, cautioning that democracy in the country was barely alive (if still alive). it is necessary to point out that venezuela currently holds one of the 47 rotating seats on the un human rights council and thus has a particular duty to uphold the highest standards in the promotion and protection of human rights. the eu has to show a strong and clear opposition towards the regime in venezuela. imprisoned opponents of the maduro regime have to be freed, humanitarian channels have to be opened, mediation efforts of all parties involved, namely the holy see, the eu, the un, countries in the region, are most welcome and should be supported, and finally, sanctions against those responsible for the abuses of human rights and the rule of law are to be introduced.
mr president, i would like to thank mr lópez for his report. it is a good report. latin america is one of the fastest-developing regions in the world. it is a region with huge potential. both the eu and latin america, as well as countries of the caribbean region, could benefit much more from cooperation and partnership agreements and trade agreements. in order for this to happen, they have to be modernised. the latin america and caribbean region constitutes a strategic partner for the eu – a key partner – when it comes to jointly facing current global challenges, such as peace and security, economic development, climate change an combating tax havens, etc. the long—lasting partnership between the eu and lac countries is founded on historical, cultural, human and economic ties, which must not be taken for granted. the modernisation of eu-latin america agreements are necessary as latin american countries are currently facing the main geopolitical shifts marked by the increased presence of some countries like china, or even russia, which are seeking to gain strategic influence and a military presence, and to develop economic partnerships in the region. mr lópez, thank you very much for your report. i hope it is adopted.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am very pleased to present to you the report on corruption and human rights in third countries. let me start by thanking all my colleagues from the subcommittee on human rights, the committee on development and the committee on international trade for their input and great cooperation in preparing this report, as well as, in particular, ana gomes who was the rapporteur in 2013. the aim of this endeavour was to highlight the link between corruption and human rights, to cover the wide scope of human rights violations and to provide recommendations for eu policies. corruption is regarded as a complex phenomenon of abuse of entrusted power for personal gain, which poses serious obstacles for the realisation of all human rights. it also distorts democracy and political processes. therefore, in this report we see an intrinsic need to employ a human rights-based approach to the eu anti-corruption policy. among other topics, the report highlights business responsibility, investment flows in relation to corruption, the influence of corruption on elections, tax havens, large sporting events and freedom of the media. we continue to insist that the commission and the external action service use all our diplomatic tools so that the european union takes the lead in the fight against corruption by supporting anti-corruption institutions in third countries, encouraging the sharing of best practices, and negotiating enforceable anti-corruption and anti-money laundering provisions in all future trade agreements that we make. we believe that the european union can become a credible actor only if we address corruption within our own borders. thus this report calls for an effective anti—corruption corruption strategy at member state level too. as far as aid and financing instruments are concerned, we insist that eu-funded projects be permanently monitored and that any budget support be linked with concrete reforms towards transparency and other anti-corruption measures. having said this, we must admit that the gap between the policy and implementation still exists and here there is a lack of political will to bridge it, as we have learned very well from recent examples. the future of the guatemalan international commission against impunity, which is crucial in its fight against corruption in the country and was also mentioned in my report as a successful example of the eu-funded project, is now unfortunately under threat. in addition, we hear of luxleaks, panama leaks, russia and azerbaijan laundromats and other cases where we realise that corruption stretches far beyond state borders and is in fact having dramatic repercussions on very serious international policy decisions. we therefore call for the highest possible ethical and transparency standards to be upheld in international institutions and national bodies in order to encourage the european union to have a legal framework in place to deter any type of corruption or fraud. thus in this report we reiterate our demand to bring the magnitsky sanctions list against 32 russian state officials to the council for its immediate adoption. let me finish by quoting john steinbeck, a nobel prize winner from 1962, who said ‘power does not corrupt. fear corrupts ... perhaps the fear of a loss of power’. indeed, i feel as if most of my report was precisely about the fear of the loss of power. i look forward to the debate in this plenary and the smooth adoption of this much-needed report.
for the efdd group mr. president, at the outbreak of the second world war, british member of parliament leo amery, in the house of commons, criticizing the wrongdoing or inaction of the government, addressed the prime minister chamberlain in the words of cromwell, and i quote: "you have been busy, you have been busy here too long and you have done nothing good, go away i say to you, get us out of here, for god's sake, go away". i am not saying this to you, mr juncker, but i would certainly suggest that you remind those who are constantly trying to promote the countries of eastern and central europe and those who have an interest in strengthening their economies at the expense of the other community members. and i'm not a very good swimmer, but i think that swimming underwater is not the fastest way to go.
in writing. in the state of the union address, president juncker presented some interesting ideas and proposals for making the european union more united, democratic, secure and able to meet the challenges of our time. i welcome a number of the proposals, particularly those on the need to legalise common eu social standards. the president said that if we want to avoid social fragmentation and social dumping in europe, the member states must agree on a european pillar of social rights as soon as possible, and at the latest at the gothenburg summit in november. he called for work to be done on a european union of social standards, with a common understanding of what is socially just. i also welcome the proposal to establish a european labour authority to strengthen cooperation between labour market authorities at all levels and to better manage cross-border situations, as well as to take additional initiatives to support fair mobility. we look forward to the submission of specific legislative proposals as soon as possible. i also welcome the commission's commitment to ensuring that eastern europe does not sell inferior goods and that our workers are not discriminated against in the eu labour market. equal pay for equal work must be ensured. i am also pleased that the president of the commission has mentioned the upcoming centenary of the restoration of the lithuanian state as a very important event and has stated that without our country the european union would not be complete.
in writing. mr president, the purpose of this directive is to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market by approximating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and by removing obstacles to the free movement of goods and services. this will improve supply on the eu market. this is why it is so important to remove the obstacles created by different rules. the directive requires that the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises be reduced. nevertheless, it is important to leave these entities as they apply. innovation is absolutely essential to achieve the objectives of the directive, which is why it is so important to maintain the right opportunities for innovative enterprises. the market access requirements shall be based on functionality rather than on the technical specifications of the product. the digital market is also important. the digital single market strategy aims to achieve more lasting economic and social benefits by facilitating trade and increasing employment in the union. eu consumers still cannot fully benefit from the lower prices and greater choice that can ensure the single market. there is also a need for joint action to ensure full access for people with disabilities to new electronic content. it is therefore necessary to harmonise accessibility requirements across the digital single market and to ensure that all union citizens can benefit from it, irrespective of their effectiveness.
thank you, chairman. today, it is not just the 120 million disabled people in europe who are waiting for our ambitious decision. accessibility in europe is for everyone banking, telephony, public transport accessibility is for disabled and elderly people, and parents with small children in wheelchairs, and people who have suffered a temporary injury and are therefore unable to move freely. this is why we must identify the beneficiaries of this legislation as both the disabled community and people with functional impairments, because only this will allow us to identify and assess each time how wide the circle of beneficiaries of the accessibility act really is. smart technology-enabled everyday aids - phones, computers, televisions and even self-contained terminals - have already made life a little easier for people with disabilities. but we must go on. a disabled person should not have to bear the additional costs of having to use adapted telephones, televisions or computers. the additional costs resulting from a disability which is not voluntary on anyone's part are simply discriminatory. and that's why all of these devices have to be designed from the ground up to be accessible to people with disabilities. i therefore appeal today to the rapporteur, mr lokkegaard, and to the other liberal and conservative members of parliament: do not make the mistake of voting tomorrow, we cannot accept this report without further amendments being tabled, because then we will not really improve the lives of the disabled community and people with temporary disabilities.
for the efdd group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the increasingly politicized energy issues of recent times can only mean one rising energy costs. this politicization also demonstrates that the failure of politicians to agree and find common ground will always force society to pay more for gas, electricity or petroleum products. nord stream didn't come yesterday or the day before. it is clear that building the great wall of china in europe, closing off airspace, or networking underwater areas will not work. so today i would like to propose that we abandon the politics of little added value. let's look at this project as a utility, as an economic one, looking not for political dividends, but for economic benefits. in an economy, cheaper energy resources always mean lower production costs. the ability to cut costs may be one of the prerequisites for intensifying the economic growth in european countries, which has slowed down considerably since the crisis, both in terms of increased exports and in terms of new jobs.
in writing. nord stream 2 is a kind of test of the effectiveness of the european energy union's solidarity. the project clearly contradicts the objectives of the european union's energy, security and neighbourhood policy, but as we can see, it is still difficult to harmonise the common position between member states. no one disputes that the nord stream 2 project is a political project and that the european union's decision cannot be based on economic assessments alone. given that the south stream project was suspended under the eu energy security strategy for non-compliance with eu law, we must ensure that the project that replaces it will not be able to circumvent eu law. the european parliament has repeatedly asked the commission to take concrete measures on nord stream 2 and i therefore warmly welcome the commission's initiative to present a proposal for common rules for gas pipelines entering the european single gas market and a recommendation to the council to open negotiations with russia on the principles for the operation of the nord stream 2 pipeline project. this clearly indicates that there is a legal vacuum that must be filled before any pipeline directly targeting the european union market can be built. it is important to note that until the negotiations with russia on 'nord stream 2' are concluded, the project cannot be continued.
author. – mr president, first of all let me express my warmest greetings to the cambodian opposition delegation, which is today here with us in the chamber. i wish to thank you personally for your fight for pluralism and democracy in cambodia for so many years. what is going on in cambodia recently makes us increasingly concerned. instead of seizing an opportunity that is given by the upcoming elections in 2018, instead of choosing a path of reconciliation, respect for human dignity and basic rights, and instead of taking measures to reduce corruption and poverty, we observe repressions against the independent media, civil society and opposition. all this must be stopped immediately. kem sokha and other political prisoners must be instantly released, and sam rainsy unconditionally pardoned. after decades and decades of enormous suffering, there is so much to do for enduring peace, real reconciliation and better lives in cambodia. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer. – this is a very current issue. indeed, we had no observation mission in the recent municipal elections, but for the general elections in 2018 i hope that, with the close cooperation of the external service and our delegation support in phnom penh, we will be present observing these elections in order to ensure, as much as possible, transparency and accountability.
in writing. the volatile internal situation in myanmar is of particular concern. the rohingya ethnic minority faces repression and persistent gross violations of human rights, including threats to life and security. in addition, a law on statelessness has been adopted for this ethnic minority. the situation in the country is critical. it is therefore essential that the government of myanmar take action as soon as possible to prevent ethnic persecution and to eliminate statelessness. in addition, restrictions on the rights and freedom of movement of rohingya must be avoided. the mass human rights violations in myanmar, the killing and maiming of people fleeing myanmar, and the lack of necessary medical care for the injured. humanitarian organisations providing assistance must be granted immediate access to the state of myanmar.
blue-card question. – mr president, i noticed my colleague mr jakovčić made very clear proposals, and i believe that solidarity is a great value, but this value should somehow be translated into action. i would like to ask mr jakovčić: apart from the crisis centre, do you think that there should be some regional capacities established in order to cope with disasters much better? i mean, countries in a region might cooperate – have joint firefighters or something. what is your opinion about this?
in writing. statistics show that the eu has not yet made significant progress in achieving gender equality. so far, we've seen only a marginal increase in equality. despite the fact that women have higher education than men, the gender pay gap is high at 16.1%. the difference in pension levels is even greater, at 40.2%. a major problem is the uneven distribution of unpaid work in the household. when unpaid domestic work is carried out by both men and women and the burden is shared equally, women will be able to participate in the labour market on an equal footing with men, a better basis for a proper work-life balance will be created and thereby opportunities for women to compete on equal terms will be created. this will not only guarantee human rights but also bring economic benefits. the economic empowerment of women requires, in particular, the guarantee of equal pay for work of equal value. in addition, workers in sectors where women are predominantly employed should be paid higher wages. in the case of company boards and the public sector, where high-level decisions are taken, experience with women's participation shows positive results. the council is therefore called upon to adopt a directive on women on company boards as a matter of urgency. companies and various institutions are encouraged to adopt gender equality plans that help reduce inequalities in the workplace: addressing issues of employment, pay, career, training and work-life balance, as well as preventing sexual harassment.
madam president, thank you very much for your collegiality, and i wish you all the best in your future to come. we have to strike a balance in enjoying the benefits of modern technologies without compromising on our security or privacy. therefore, i fully agree with this report calling for the update of the european union’s cybersecurity strategy. it is important to enhance cooperation at eu level in order to fight the current and newly emerging cybercrime trends. member states should combine their efforts for a better information exchange through eurojust, europol or the european union’s agency for network and information security. lastly, let’s not forget that every single one of us can make small steps to avoid becoming a victim of cybercrimes. we therefore urge the commission to launch information and awareness—raising campaigns for citizens so that they know the risks and can develop a good digital hygiene.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is the third time in the last five months that we are discussing moldova in this chamber. as a standing rapporteur, it is not the kind of attention i would like to see for moldova so repeatedly. let me start by addressing the moldovan authorities very frankly: the main thing that i miss in moldovan politics is a critical lack of a real consensus in the national political field. do not expect brussels to do it for you. consensus must be built on a daily basis in chișinău, bălți and comrat. the newly adopted election law was clearly a bulldozer-type move – not what we expect from an eu-associated partner. as a result, respectable international bodies – the venice commission and the osce – are ignored and bypassed. at home, smaller political parties feel unfairly pressed and even eliminated. moldovan citizens are waiting for a different type of politics. people, including us in this house, want to see the unimpeded publication of the kroll 2 investigation report. we all expect no further delay in the identification and bringing to justice of those persons or politicians who are hiding behind this unprecedented bank fraud scandal. at the same time, we continue to be concerned to see biased legal proceedings, such as in the case of chișinău mayor, dorin chirtoacă. we stress that only an independent and depoliticised judiciary can deliver justice and trust. i will keep repeating that i see today many missed opportunities for moldova. as a true friend, i am critical of idea of the european future of moldova. however, the country will continue losing until the moment when its authorities finally come to the conclusion that building a national consensus in a european way is exactly what makes moldova’s statehood stronger and consolidates its society.
i would like to draw your attention to the importance of moldova in foreign policy. moldova the litmus test of the eu's external relations mechanisms it is a poor and poorly governed country that needs help in both sustainable development and good governance. it is a country of frozen conflicts. the transnistrian problem is as painful as the northern cyprus problem. moldova is at a crossroads between the desire of its citizens to be closer to europe and russia's reluctance to let go of its control. the situation is further complicated by the weak and embroiled local authorities, whose activities have recently raised questions about their compatibility with democratic principles. europe should send a clear message that convergence with europe and market opening and support are only possible in exchange for democratic, legal and market reforms.
the author. in developing countries, one in three girls is married before the age of 18, and one in nine is married before the age of 15. both boys and girls suffer from child marriage, but girls, who account for 82 percent of all child marriage, are at the highest risk. and this is not just a problem in third countries, but also in europe. under article 3 of the treaty on european union, the eu promotes the protection of children's rights, but child and forced marriage is a violation of these rights. one of the united nations sustainable development goals is to eliminate all harmful practices, including child and forced marriage. in addition, the elimination of child and forced marriage as one of the eu priorities is included in the joint staff working document 'gender equality and women's empowerment: changing the lives of girls and women through the development of the eu's external relations (2016-2020) ', in the eu action plan on human rights 2015-2019 and in the gender action plan, which emphasises the need to ensure that women and girls can fully enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu recently decided to sign the istanbul convention, which considers forced marriage a form of violence against women and calls for measures to be extended to boys and men, who may also be victims of forced marriage. the convention requires that the act of forcing a child into marriage and the abduction of a child to another country for the purpose of forcing him into marriage be considered as criminal offences. early and forced marriage seriously affects the overall enjoyment and access to rights of girls and women, as well as girls' health, including the risk of serious pregnancy complications, often resulting in death, and hiv infections. early marriage puts girls at risk of sexual abuse, domestic violence, and even honor killings. we must also take into account the wide disparity between the number of officially registered cases and the number of potential victims seeking help, which indicates that many child marriages can be carried out without the authorities being aware of them. it is therefore essential that social workers, teachers and other workers who have direct contact with potential victims receive specific training and develop guidelines explaining how to identify victims and initiate procedures to assist them. i would also like to recall that parliament condemns the renewal and extension of the rule on non-financing of organisations supporting abortion and its impact on the global health and rights of women and girls. and here i would like to call again on the eu and the member states to fill the funding gap already opened in the area of sexual and reproductive health, using national and eu development funds. so the questions to the commissioner are: how does the commission assess the impact of projects and campaigns to combat child marriage and the amount of funding allocated to this purpose in all the european union's external action? does the commission take into account the indicators of child marriage in its cooperation agreements and does it set specific benchmarks to eliminate this phenomenon? what action is being taken to ensure the protection of the rights and health of all children in the member states of the european union, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, in cases of child marriage and to apply uniform legal standards, including in view of the european union's intention to ratify the istanbul convention? finally, how are the commission and the member states addressing the problem of child marriage, especially when it concerns underage refugees and asylum seekers? thank you and we look forward to your reply.
after the violence in catalonia on sunday, it would be not only foolish but sacrilegious to discuss the issues that are being considered at the ordinary council meeting. we're just gonna pretend like nothing happened and then we're gonna go home. i think that both the european parliament and the council should first of all speak out on the question of democracy, starting with our understanding of it. the images from catalonia have shown the world a different, hitherto unheard-of, picture of democracy. bloody faces, rubber bullets, women being pulled by their hair. for wanting to use one of their fundamental freedoms, the democratic instrument of the referendum. the actions in catalonia are in clear violation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the universal declaration of human rights, the european convention on human rights and many other norms of international law. i will only dare to ask what difference there is between 1956 in hungary, 1968 in czechoslovakia, 1988 in lithuania and 1989 in georgia, when the police and the army used bananas, mines and tanks to educate the people who were seeking democracy, freedom and independence. given the situation regarding the spanish government's actions... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. albinism is an inherited genetic disorder, but it is misunderstood in malawi and some other countries. this has resulted in people being killed and injured in an attempt to gain power and fortune. women with albinism are raped because sex with them is believed to cure hiv and aids. murder, maiming, discrimination, harassment and stigmatisation have forced hundreds of people with albinism to move to temporary shelters in the districts, reducing their access to basic services such as healthcare and education, employment and participation in public life. in this context, it is essential that the malawian government take active steps to protect persons with a genetic disorder of albinism, to prevent violence against them, and to provide all necessary medical and psychological support. violence against persons with albinism is transnational in nature and i believe that regional cooperation in this area needs to be strengthened, and educational programmes encouraged to dispel prevailing myths and help the vulnerable group to become socialised and equal members of society.
author. – mr president, the non-recognition of crimea’s occupation is not just a political declaration, it is an obligation to act. i call on the european external service: each and every case of repressed crimean dissidents must be followed by our action, i mean by asset-freezing and a travel ban against those who are responsible. i have got a note from independent russian analysts who say that over 130 european union companies still enjoy trading with crimea. an absolute majority of them have a cypriot legal registration. this scandalous and shocking political business scheme must be stopped immediately and investigated thoroughly. the commission must act and take all legal measures against these sanctions-violators.
for the verts/ale group the crimea is a sweet treat for russia, which has long been waiting for it. this peninsula has always been of great strategic importance to russia. russian aggression began in the mid-19th century, continued into the early 20th century, and after world war ii, stalin deported all crimean tatars for alleged collaboration with the nazis. and now, in the 21st century, russia has annexed crimea again. this situation is most appalling for the crimean tatars, who are few in number in crimea, but who are the ancestors, the masters of this land. the history of the crimean tatars is similar in many ways to that of my people, but they have suffered an incomparably more severe long-term persecution. we must be more active in helping ukraine to regain the peninsula and thus ensure peace and a future for the crimean tatars as well.
mr president, i strongly and heartily support this proposal. we no longer have the luxury of turning a blind eye to the ongoing fraudulent use of the european union’s funds. it is estimated that the eu loses around eur 600 million per year due to fraud. this cannot go on and on. by unifying the work of national prosecutors under the new european public prosecutor’s office, which will be leading the work of european delegated prosecutors, they will be able to perform investigations in a cooperative manner using the common procedures and remaining in line with national laws. such synchronised cooperation between the member states will help to address systematic drawbacks and properly investigate and put an end to these crimes.
mr president, youth unemployment is an old phenomenon. and some of the member states of the european union have been experiencing abnormally high levels of it for many years. this is not only a major social problem but also a major economic loss. in lithuania, the loss of young people not in employment, education or school was 0.7% of gdp in 2008 and already in 2011 was 1.1% of gdp. the control of expenditure and the continuous monitoring of economic fecundity of the european union youth guarantee initiatives are therefore of great importance, with the voluntary provision of recommendations and consultations to each group of beneficiaries, together with the determination of the share of the financial contribution of the member state. i think there is a consensus that projects to reduce youth unemployment, even in the short term, are effective. research shows that short-term employment of young people significantly increases the chances of finding a job in the future.
the most important issue affecting the future of the european union is today in catalonia. in fact, european leaders believe that people are destroying democracy. let us finally listen to the european intellectuals who say that the real europe is a community of nations with their own languages, traditions and borders. the future of the european union is an unimposed imperial unity, created by lies and even physical force. not the disregard of the family as a union of man and woman, not the replacement of christianity with a surrogate religion of declared solidarity. but compassion and a return to the most important things that unite europe is the only way we can survive in the community. let us stop saying that what is happening in catalonia is an internal spanish matter. let us recall the idea expressed in president wilson's speech that each nation has the right to determine its own state. dear leaders of the european union, sit down at the negotiating table with the spanish and catalan politicians and help them find the best and most peaceful solution to the current situation. mr. junker, mr. tusk, you can do this, you have to do this.
mr president, i take it as a privilege to be the last speaker on this issue. since we really need to rethink very comprehensively eu finances so we can more effectively address the emerging crisis in the eu and the eu neighbourhood, better match the political goals of the european union and its actual needs, a wider debate on the future for the european union budget and its purpose is still very much needed. although i would like to support the commission’s claim, reiterated by parliament, and the eu budget first and foremost needs to reflect the future of the eu priorities, our citizens’ priorities, having said this, i hope that cohesion policy and agricultural policy will remain among those priorities. moreover, i welcome the claim that the eu budget should be based on such principles as eu value, added value, transparency and flexibility, in addition, taking into account the amount of the eu challenges, foreseeable future priorities and the uk’s withdrawal.
in writing. the vice-president of the european commission, presenting the commission's 2018 work programme, noted that the commission intends to present a social justice package next year, which will include a proposal to create a european labour authority to help tackle labour mobility and social protection. i very much welcome this initiative by the commission, which is an important step towards the creation of a european social pillar, and i look forward to it, but i think that it is not enough. i would like to emphasise that europe needs not a declaratory but an effective european social pillar, which ensures that all workers, whatever their job, have decent employment contracts and adequate social protection. however, the commission's plans also miss some other important initiatives which parliament has been asking for several years to be prepared and presented. for example, although i have been calling for many years for the commission and the member states to create a european child guarantee, which would allow for concrete, financially justified measures to help overcome child poverty across europe, the programme for the coming year still does not provide for this. nor are there any measures to combat the gender pay and pension gap. this is a problem we have been talking about for many years and we are asking for initiatives to help overcome these differences at european level.
in writing. the subject discussed today was carefully prepared by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, as the report touches on the very important aspects of security in the eu member states and the privacy of individuals. the increase in passenger flows at the external borders of the european union over the past few years has made it clear that the current border control systems are ineffective, and this situation could be further complicated by the influx of refugees. we need to modernise our travel management systems to make them more coherent and efficient, as well as safer. the controls cannot be based solely on the checks of passengers' passports and stamps, which may not only be falsified or illegible, but may also be an excessive burden on the border authorities prevent them from concentrating on their real work and thus endanger security. the establishment of a european entry/exit system will benefit passengers by reducing their waiting time at border crossing points. it will also benefit member states by speeding up the formalities for bona fide passengers and at the same time enhancing the security of the eu's external borders.
thank you, chairman. sexual harassment is a harmful phenomenon that is universal. he balances between career destruction if the victim does not succumb to harassment and severe psychological trauma if the victim does succumb to him. although cases where a victim of sexual harassment reports the incident to the appropriate authorities, the harasser is punished and the victim - the victim - successfully maintains his career are likely to be isolated, this is the problem of abuse of power, which results in violation of human rights, women's rights. unfortunately, this is a phenomenon, a problem, which is also present in our european parliament, which could be considered. and that is why i support the need for an independent inquiry in the european parliament, with the help of external experts, because it is clear that the existing complaints system in parliament is simply not working efficiently enough at the moment, and we must create an effective mechanism with professional lawyers and psychologists to advise our staff. finally, it is necessary to provide for sanctions against those who believe they may abuse their power. yes, the european parliament has a code of conduct, the staff of the administration have the european parliament's internal ethics rules. but it's not enough. both these documents must include serious penalties for sexual harassment, and i hope that this will be done not just in words but in deeds.
mr president, i voted in favour of this document, agreeing especially with the rapporteur’s reservations regarding the commission’s cuts foreseen under heading 4 expenditure (global europe). such reductions, i am afraid, are in contradiction with the eu objectives set out in its global strategy. we have to find the resources to be allocated from the eu budget in order to address the newly arising challenges when there are direct repercussions on our long-term security. one such complex challenge is the information warfare. therefore, via the budgetary procedure, i, along with other colleagues, called for the allocation of adequate resources for the development of such capabilities – both inside the european union (strengthening the external service stratcom team), and via the delegations of the eu’s eastern neighbourhood and the western balkans.
mr president, the current eu border control system is inadequate to meet the challenge of the ever-growing traveller flow to the schengen area, with the expected number of arrivals by third country nationals on short-term visits estimated at up to 300 million by 2025. therefore, i congratulate the authors of this proposal, which is aimed at improving and modernising traveller management systems. establishing a european entry/exit system to register travellers’ data will both enable tighter border security and reduce waiting time for bone fide passengers. needless to say, this system will allow the eu to manage immigration better and will indicate transnational threats – ultimately resulting in improved internal security. at the same time, we must not forget proportionality, and we must carefully set the time frame for how long personal data can be held in the system, in order to protect people’s privacy.
i very much hope that the decision of the united kingdom to leave the european union will force us to concentrate on overcoming the various political risks. the wave of populism and protectionism is not over yet, we must be vigilant, and its causes are well known to all: high income inequality, social exclusion, the refugee crisis, terrorism, the divide between the eastern and western members of the european union, external threats. we need to work on these issues and address them in a way that improves the socio-economic climate and stimulates economic growth. and there is no need to rush or force the introduction of the euro in all the member states that do not yet have it. sustainable and socially responsible economic growth in the euro area based on cooperation is of great importance to all of us.
mr president, australia and new zealand are among the fastest growing developing open and dynamic economies. both countries have concluded numerous trade agreements with other partners. as the european union does not have preferential bilateral trade arrangements with either of them, eu businesses have comparably less favourable conditions to access these markets. our relationship with australia and new zealand has evolved over the past decades from a basic economic one into a strategic, political one that is based on common values, social and environmental standards, data protection, food safety requirements and so on. certainly, there are sensitive sectors in the eu member states’ economies, like the meat and dairy sectors, so their interests and concerns have to be reflected in the trade agreement, and we have the necessary instruments available to achieve that. it is also extremely important that negotiations are conducted in a transparent way and a strong sustainability chapter is a must.
the pricing maneuvers of air tickets and the peculiarities of their acquisition through different reservation systems often surprise consumers. therefore, the introduction of new additional charges will certainly not facilitate the travel planning and ticketing processes. if more airlines start to charge for ticket distribution through other systems not controlled by them, passengers will not only face an increase in ticket prices, but will also lose the right to compare and use the various distribution channels freely. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the air carrier has been operating in breach of the air carrier's obligations under the agreement. the european commission must take measures to protect consumers from such dubious airline initiatives and ensure transparency in ticket distribution channels.
in writing. there is no doubt that consumer protection in the eu market is an important element in the development of community law. as early as 2003, the commission first proposed a framework for crossborder cooperation between national authorities to facilitate more effective monitoring, investigation and prosecution of crossborder criminal activities, thus closing the loophole used by rogue traders. the introduction of a limitation period is necessary to ensure legal certainty and the effectiveness of enforcement actions in relation to cross-border infringements and to avoid a difference in treatment between consumers and businesses in the single market. this means a specific period during which competent authorities may impose sanctions, compensate consumers or recover the proceeds of infringements in the context of the enforcement of cross-border infringement rules. however, it should be borne in mind that it is for the member states to decide whether the competent authorities will use these powers directly within their own sphere of competence or by lodging statements with the competent courts. where member states find that competent authorities exercise their powers, they should ensure that the rights can be exercised in a timely and effective manner.
mr president, europe’s roads are becoming safer each year. however, the number of fatalities still exceeds 25 000 a year. hence i strongly support this proposal to take extra measures aimed at reducing the number of incidents on the roads. we need to ensure that there is the necessary infrastructure, especially in urban areas, so that pedestrians and cyclists are not at risk. in addition, we should not neglect the vehicle factor, which is fundamental for road safety, as the majority of incidents are caused by human error. if we installed mandatory safety-related driver assistance systems as singled out in these proposals, it could prevent some of those incidents by assisting and correcting drivers’ behaviour. we should live under the principle that even one saved life on the roads matters.
mr president, i voted in favour of this proposal. it aims to make the existing rules for cooperation among member states on consumer protection laws be enforced more effectively. taking into account an increase in international retail traffic and challenges related to the digital single market, adapting the rules is crucial in order to protect our citizens’ rights and their economic interests when doing e-commerce online or using other services of the internal market. for this we need to fight secrecy, have adequate consumer protection legislation and its enforcement plans in place, and of course ensure a functioning database among member states and swift information exchange.
indeed, low birth rates, youth shortages, an ageing population, and emigration are causes for concern, and rightly so. we all understand that without europeans, the project of europe has no future. we all need to understand that the demographic dimension we are talking about in this report is and must be an important part of regional policy. the question is how to implement this regional policy and how to better mobilise those funds or those policy instruments which are to lead to a better demographic situation. i might question the proposals we have adopted today, although i support the joint resolution. i believe that economic policy, job creation and sustainability in certain regions - that must be our response, rather than the very generous development of social policy in those regions. the family needs to be supported all over europe, including in my country, lithuania. the exclusive support of families in some isolated regions will create a sense of inequality, not the other way around. so i hope that by making this decision, we will have the opportunity to improve it.
the death of a journalist, no matter what country it happened in, is a tragedy that must not be repeated. nor should there be a repeat of the deaths of judges, prosecutors, and police officers who investigate corruption, other criminal offenses, and so on. perhaps the resolution we are proposing could finally be the starting point from which to take concrete steps to protect individual members of society, regardless of their profession, occupation or status, from persecution and harassment. i hope this tragic incident is not just an opportunity for cheap politics and big statements. may the words of the resolution sink into the hearts of the heads of government and become law that works properly. the deaths must be stopped.
europe is vital to a strong world trade organisation that would promote open markets and free and fair trade in the world. it is therefore essential that the decisions taken at the buenos aires ministerial conference are balanced against the interests of the european union and that they include clear work programmes for the future in the areas which are of particular importance to us, such as horizontal subsidies, electronic trade, the removal of non-tariff barriers, the regular streamlining of wto activities and the implementation of transparency commitments. in view of the passive participation of the united states in the preparations for the forthcoming ministerial conference, the avoidance of appointing judges, it is necessary to look for ways to constructively involve the united states in the processes, to include issues of relevance to the european union on the agenda. we are facing new challenges as overproduction. the problem is a major one, with significant economic consequences. eu efforts in the wto, g20 and other formats are therefore crucial to tackle this problem of unfair subsidies to certain sectors. example: the steel sector, where chinese government subsidies have caused a crisis. the solar module and battery sector is facing similar problems. this has a direct and negative impact on lithuanian producers. finally, it is also important to ensure that the commitments made at this conference in the field of internal agricultural support do not in any way affect our freedom of action in the reform of agricultural policy. red lines must not be crossed.
rapporteur. – mr president, the eastern partnership policy is an important and long-standing policy of the european union. we want this policy to be effective and result-driven. the summit in brussels should be forward-looking, injecting new dynamism and providing a clear political vision for the future of our eastern partnership. if the brussels summit lacks this and is only a stock-taking summit, if its final declaration lacks novelty, then the november summit will demonstrate the inability of the european union to meet the challenges ahead of us, and it will be another missed opportunity. the european parliament is far more ambitious than for instance some eu member states. we in the parliament fully acknowledge our responsibility for the consequences of any failure of our eastern partnership policy. that this why in our recommendations we propose very concrete steps to be taken by the european union in order to guarantee that our eastern partnership policy is a success. the european parliament is playing its legitimate role. its recommendations to the summit should be taken into account and duly reflected in the final declaration. among other important aspects of the ep recommendations, we propose an eap plus format which includes the establishment of a trust fund, a new european investment plan, a financial support mechanism for the implementation of the association agreements, etc. all these proposals are for the countries which have association agreements and free trade agreements with the european union and enjoy a visa-free regime with the eu, namely ukraine, georgia and moldova. when that time comes, when the homework is done and the necessary requirements fulfilled, potential membership of these countries in the customs union, the digital union and the energy union should be considered as an option. secondly, differentiation is key, as our resources are limited. the principle of ‘more for more and less for less’ should be implemented. we should focus our resources much more on those eastern partnership countries who have made remarkable progress on their european path. a few words now about the trust fund and the new european investment plan. in the present geo-political context, and taking into account the geo-political realities, we should offer ukraine, georgia and moldova – and in our recommendations we proposed that – a new european plan for these countries, including a new investment plan to boost investments and economic development. according to international experts, a sizeable doubling of the volume of investment, for instance in ukraine, of up to eur 5 billion annually can result in 6-8% annual economic growth in the country over the next 5-10 years. conditionality is in place also. i have in mind structural reforms and the creation of an investment-friendly environment, the strengthening of the rule of law and the fight against corruption in the countries concerned. this is absolutely a must. the investment support is dedicated not to the oligarchy – not to profit oligarchs in these countries – it is dedicated to ordinary people, notably in such fields as energy savings, road infrastructure, jobs, public services, small and medium-sized businesses and reconstruction if, as in the case of ukraine, the country is at war. i look forward to our debate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to start by welcoming the parliament recommendation on the eastern partnership summit to be held in brussels in 10 days’ time. it is a solid and forward-looking document which contains very concrete elements of further engagement, such as eastern partnership plus and fully fledged csdp missions, just to mention a few. i call on the summit to read the document very carefully, and most importantly, to come from a perspective that is the role of the european union to act, and to be an engaging and responsible partner. georgia, moldova and ukraine are the only eu neighbours with europeanisation and pro-european reforms clearly set as their national and strategic goals. they expect reaching a true partnership with us, the european union. if the summit fails, despite being action- and engagement-oriented, this will only mean that our partners are addressed with a message of a new, so-called ‘paper curtain’ – another effort to keep europe divided with a huge bureaucracy, distrust, and indifference that we brand as ‘fatigue’. it must not be us and them, it must be all of us together, it must be about a europe whole and free. my worry is, however, that the ‘more for more’ principle so proudly proclaimed in riga is now being turned into a ‘one-size-fits-all’. this size will be destined by the participation of alexander lukashenko, europe’s longest-serving dictator. i remain strongly convinced that this invitation is a critical mistake.
i would like to repeat what should have become an axiom: the eastern partnership is above all a demonstration of the european union's soft power. and a test of how much europe can be a world leader. how much of an alternative to aggressive chauvinist dictatorships there is. it is very good that we review the results of the eastern partnership at the annual leaders' meetings. it would be even better if the heads of state and government of the european union used such meetings to articulate our core values and ensure that they are implemented. we must make it clear that the creation of a nuclear threat on the borders of the european union, as belarus is doing, is strictly beyond the red line. otherwise, we will continue to have an inexplicably generous europe and its neighbours who think that europe has to give them something just because it exists.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleagues on the very important document they have produced. since the last eastern partnership meeting in riga two years ago, great progress has been made, both in terms of the association agreements that have entered into force and in terms of the visa-free regime for both georgia and ukraine. however, further strengthening and development of the actions of the eastern partnership countries and the european union is necessary. it is of particular importance that the full potential of the association agreement is realised and that substantial progress is made in implementing the necessary reforms. i hope that the upcoming meeting will agree on new incentives to deepen the political and economic integration of the eastern partners, review the mutual commitments of the european union and the partners and deepen cooperation in addressing common challenges, in particular in the areas of nuclear safety and the environmental agreement.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank my co-rapporteur mr knut fleckenstein for your excellent cooperation. i cordially thank our shadow rapporteurs and all colleagues who contributed to the draft report, in order to have well-balanced european parliament recommendations for the eastern partnership summit. i thank the estonian presidency for your commitment and your leadership and i sincerely wish the forthcoming summit every success. i very much hope that the recommendations of the european parliament will be well reflected in the final declaration of the summit. on belarus, president alexander lukashenko is invited to the summit. i hope and i wish that he will use this real opportunity to present and prove his country’s achievements in the process of european integration in becoming closer to the eu. certainly, no one can expect the eu to stop defending human rights, equal opportunities, the rule of law, democracy and human dignity. these are our core values and we will stand firmly behind these values, whatever country is concerned.
in writing. the eastern partnership is at the heart of the eu's agenda. we all understand that a safe neighbourhood is also a guarantee of a safe european union, and we must therefore continue to play an active role in promoting democratic change in the partner countries. i agree with the principle of 'support as progress is made' set out in the report. we must not forget that the application of this principle to partner countries must be clear, determining the scale and quality of the reforms needed in the field of human rights or in the development of a market economy. the assessment of current commitments should also be the focus. the message from the eu institutions should be clear, targeted and not subject to political sympathy or antipathy. eu leadership in this context is an opportunity to contribute to a breakthrough in the dynamism of relations, the expansion of democracy, the resolution of frozen conflicts and the establishment of peace throughout the region.
the terms rule of law and respect for democracy are interestingly echoed here today in parliament, following spain's attempt to ban the referendum in catalonia. the silence of the european union institutions on the legal persecution of barcelona politicians is also striking. the accusations against the republic of poland are even more pronounced today, allegedly for its democratic failings, for the reform of its judicial system, for its clear and categorical position on refugee issues, for other decisions that consolidate its autonomy. the principles on which the european commission is founded state that the member states are treated equally in all cases. if the leaders of the european union keep on saying that the question of catalonia is an internal spanish matter, why is it now being discussed in terms of decisions by the polish government or parliament? let's just say it's their internal affair and not interfere. the attempt to undermine national law, to undermine the decisions of the national community institutions is nothing less than the destruction of the autonomy of the states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the communist coup d’état in russia, still called a revolution by some even in this house, opened the most brutal period of the 20th century. a hundred years ago, all hell broke loose, taking more than 100 million human lives among the russian people and other innocent nations across the globe. the bolsheviks’ sick desire to conquer the whole world with their communist ideals caused the equally shameful rise of national socialists and similar human rubbish. the communist system cost millions of lives, but it was doomed from the very outset. getting rid of communism’s ghosts in central and eastern europe was consolidating a peaceful process of human dignity and joy. against the backdrop of such events, it makes us understand better than ever the real significance of the european union, the most successful european project. mr president, taking no more time, may i ask you to pay a tribute with a minute’s silence for the more than 100 million people killed by the shameful bolshevik coup d’état.
for the verts/ale group let's be honest with each other. after arriving in st. petersburg in october 1917, even the bolsheviks themselves called the coup d'état a coup d'état. the great revolution, this coup, only became part of the communist mythology after a decade. i can't think of a single reason why we should continue to develop soviet mythology. so let's call it what it is, and let's call october in russia a bolshevik coup. last week, several colleagues in parliament tried to celebrate the centenary of the bolshevik coup. we should ask ourselves: can we allow the inauguration of a regime in the temple of european democracy that not only had nothing to do with democracy, but is responsible for more than a hundred million deaths on all continents of the world? my country, after four and a half decades of communist occupation, has made what i believe is the right decision. the two greatest totalitarian regimes of the 20th century - communism and nazism - are legally equated and equally criminalized. i believe that the best way to evaluate the bolshevik coup of 1917 is to criminalize it.
in writing. the communication on tackling inequality as a driver of job creation and growth highlights the growing gap in income and wealth between those who benefit most and those who benefit least. the communication aims to raise the issue of inequality as a top priority at european level and proposes to reduce it by fighting poverty and social exclusion, but also by improving living and working conditions and active labour market policies or by strengthening trade union and workers' rights. given that rising unemployment is one of the main reasons for the widening income gap, the report proposes to strengthen key employment policies, focusing on two particularly vulnerable groups: young people and the long-term unemployed. strengthening and modernising the welfare state and the social protection we want to provide to our citizens is essential to tackling inequality. the fight against poverty, especially among young people and children, explains one of the most pressing issues as we face the consequences of inequality not only from a social perspective but also in terms of future potential. addressing gender inequalities in the labour market will reduce inequalities and have a positive impact on sustainable growth. finally, tax systems are crucial to the redistribution process, provided they are well designed and function properly. the importance of the fight against fraud should be emphasised, and this is a task of international coordination and regulation in today's world, which must be given higher priority in the european political agenda.
for the verts/ale group the russian embargo on food imports from the european union has had a tangible impact. maybe not quite the one its initiators had hoped for. europe, even the main exporting countries to russia, did not suffer from the crisis, but farmers' and processors' incomes fell significantly. for lithuania, this russian embargo was not new. we've had a number of export bans from russia against him. and it's always been tied to a certain political context. therefore, although profitable for producers, the russian market was never forecast. however, it was this 14-year global embargo that fundamentally changed the map of lithuania's agricultural structure. the large losses in individual sectors and the uncertainty about the future have led to a mass withdrawal of farmers from production and a shift towards plantation, mainly cereals. the figures speak for themselves, with the milk sector alone seeing a 34% decline in milk producers since the embargo was lifted. most of them have switched to cereal farming. this is bad, not only less profitable for the farmer himself, but also damaging to the economy because the grain is exported in bulk. exports of raw materials never generate the added value of, for example, milk production or milk processing. such changes are also clearly unfavourable for the climate, as they create an imbalance between the crop and livestock sectors. as regards fruit and vegetables in particular, lithuanian farmers, who had lost their main export markets as a result of the embargo, gradually reoriented their focus towards processing and could begin to rejoice that we had learned to survive without the russian market. if not lithuania, which was devastated by floods this year! i took the initiative to collect video footage from lithuanian farmers and show you the lakes that have become lithuanian fields due to the unprecedented amount of rainfall in summer and autumn. so this year's vegetable crop is heavily sown and rotted. even today, in some areas, farmers are still using their machines to dig up the crop or to protect it. but it is clear that the people will suffer great losses. it seems that nature has also imposed an embargo on us. and i fear that for farmers who have not yet recovered after 14 years, it could be devastating. i hope that the european union will show solidarity in this crisis and find the resources needed to provide urgent assistance.
it's great that the relationship with new zealand is developing so well. we share the same values and closer economic relations will certainly contribute to the strengthening of the international securities community. on the other hand, things are not as simple as they seem. first of all, we must not forget that by creating bilateral special trade agreements we are also destroying international structures. the world trade organization, which has been hard at work, is being left out. third parties also see the message that it is possible to try to obtain short-term benefits. do we think about the long-term prospects of such activities? the environmental impact cannot be ignored. i'm not going to repeat the statistics of the impact of climate change on the new zealand livestock sector alone. do we really want to boost it further, while accelerating climate change?
in writing. every state has a duty to create conditions for the full development of its population, to ensure respect for basic human rights standards. the malagasy authorities are obliged to promote and protect the rights of their citizens. it is important to establish a sustainable public administration and to take effective measures to stabilise the political situation and the social and economic level. effective action must be taken to prevent crime, violations of freedom of expression, terrorism and violence. the constitutional order and political stability of the country must be maintained. it is essential to ensure the peaceful resolution of conflicts by providing the victims with the necessary medical, hygiene and food supplies, and by allowing for the provision of comprehensive humanitarian aid. the malagasy authorities must systematically conduct impartial investigations into extrajudicial executions, bring the perpetrators to justice and ensure that the families of the victims receive adequate compensation.
in writing. i congratulate the conciliation committee on reaching an agreement on the general budget for the financial year 2018. it is gratifying that parliament, the council and the commission have been able to agree on the budget of the european union for the next year and it is particularly gratifying that parliament's negotiators have been able to win out on significant amendments that will bring many benefits to european citizens. it is important to note that the european parliament did not support the council's proposal to reduce funding for jobs and growth policies by eur 750 million. equally significant achievement additional support was won for several important programmes, including the youth employment initiative. it is endowed with eur 350 million. this is a much-needed financial support to combat youth unemployment, and it is good to hear that parliament's negotiators are ready to evaluate this programme next year and have promised to allocate more resources if necessary. the eu is already spending a lot of money to give prospects to those young people who are still looking for work, but statistics show that the level of employment among young people is not rising as much as we would like. i therefore hope that this increased support will have a positive impact on tackling youth unemployment. i also welcome the negotiators' commitment of €110 million to the research funding programme 'horizon 2020' and €24 million to the student exchange programme 'erasmus+' to enable europe's young people to travel, become more competitive, acquire more skills and succeed in the labour markets of the future. finally, support has also been increased for young farmers. they will receive an additional eur 34 million.
on behalf of the s&d group first of all, i thank the rapporteur, helga stevens, for a really good joint work and i thank the commissioner, who really understands that we need to invest more and do more to make our disabled people in the european union, their families, have accessible, affordable services. i want to focus on four key points. first of all, i believe that there is a great need for adequate social support for disabled people and that states have a duty to provide social support and to ensure that their citizens with disabilities have access to the necessary social services. their additional needs and, unfortunately, often the low and poor quality of employment simply dictate this need. states must guarantee at least a minimum income for disabled people and their families, as this is often, unfortunately, their only source of livelihood. the basic needs of disabled people often involve considerable additional costs compared to those of people without disabilities, i.e. the hiring of assistants, additional adaptation of the environment, additional necessary equipment, medicines and many other things. i would also like to draw attention to the employment of the disabled. i think there is no doubt that people with disabilities want to live independent, full lives and want to work, but they are often unable to do so because of their disability and because the labour market is not ready to accept them. so we have to take this very seriously to make the labour market accessible to people with disabilities. i also want to draw attention to accessibility. in fact, it is necessary to adopt and have an accessibility act, because accessibility of public services is very important for both our citizens with disabilities and for the elderly, who often also have temporary restrictions on their mobility. public transport, health, education and social services must be accessible, affordable and of good quality. finally, additional funding for the integration of disabled people is essential, and as we look at the next seven years of funding, additional funding for disabled people must also be provided.
as regards disabled people, we should clearly agree that, regardless of the country, the physical and financial capacity to provide an adequate quality of life for such people should be equally good in any country of the european union. the countries of the european union are still full of segregated special schools, special enterprises that are used by businesses only to subsidize the employment of people with disabilities. but it does violate their right to be employed in an open labour market. it is necessary to distinguish between disability benefits and financial support. taking into account the additional care and other needs that disabled persons may have, thus enabling them to live a life of dignity and to enter the labour market. we must ensure that disability benefits are never terminated or taxed, despite other types of benefits. the european institutions today spend far more on other purposes than they could support disabled people every year. so let's put some of that money into these things.
in writing. there are about 80 million disabled people in the european union. all persons with disabilities must enjoy equal rights in all areas of life and the inalienable right to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. particular attention should be paid to children with disabilities, who must be guaranteed the inalienable right to live with their family, as this is in their best interests. given that family members often have to reduce or stop their professional activities in order to care for disabled family members, support measures for such families should be strengthened. legal decisions should start with the motivation of employers to ensure that disabled people are given a fair and equal position throughout the process from education to employment. there shall be no discrimination in respect of the employment of disabled persons. the fight against poverty and social exclusion of the disabled is closely linked to the improvement of conditions for family members, who are often unpaid carers, not employees. we as a parliament should pay more attention to this and encourage member states to present national strategies for supporting nurses. it is necessary to remove all legal barriers to the functioning of disabled people in society in all areas of life, including work, throughout the european union in order to eliminate all symptoms of social exclusion.
madam president, i do support the european parliament and council agreement on the general budget of the european union, as foreseen for 2018, and thus voted much in favour. as we see, eu commitments for 2018 will be around eur 160.1 billion, whereas the factual payments are set up at eur 144.7 billion. in addition, i fully approve the fact that the following year, more resources will be allocated towards enhancing growth, competitiveness and economic cohesion, with initiatives such as the youth employment initiative, and strengthening other fields such as security. i especially support the allocation of an additional eur 120 million for the youth employment initiative, as well as (i highlight) an allocation of an additional eur 3 million for strategic communication. i believe these, and other sections of the budget, more or less reflect the eu priorities for the next year.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, this agreement shows our commitment to help kazakhstan to exploit in full scale the possibilities offered by the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement. it will boost our bilateral trade and support businesses, all in line with fundamental wto rules and principles. however, there is still a series of concerns as regards political reforms and real progress with respect for human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democratisation. continued restriction of media, freedom of expression and belief, criminal prosecution and imprisonment of independent activists and political opposition leaders by the kazak authorities are not in line with our principles and shall be subject to scrutiny. therefore, we urge kazakhstan to resolve these negative trends. finally, the implementation of the epca should be subject to effective monitoring, strictly applying the principle: more for more and less and for less.
in writing. money laundering involves the illegal concealment of money, as well as the use of international criminal networks to disguise the nature of the illicit proceeds in order to make them appear to have been obtained legally. in 2016, parliament set up a committee of inquiry into alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in the application of union law in cases of money laundering. his conclusions are shocking. the panama papers leaked data includes confidential data from 213,634 overseas companies along with the names of 12 current and former heads of state, nearly 200 politicians from around the world, and numerous celebrities from various fields. in many cases, no or incomplete investigations were carried out to identify the main beneficial owners of the entities. this results in the inability to identify the entity's ownership and controlling structure or the purpose and intended nature of the information received about the business relationship. it needs to be changed. profits should be taxed at the place where they are received. the current union legislation is inadequate, which has given rise to the actions and financial structures revealed in the panama papers. it is essential to establish a common eu approach to combating front companies in third countries, overseas countries and territories and the outermost regions, with a view to putting an end once and for all to the practice of evading the payment of the fair share of taxes in the eu.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last year the brussels conference on afghanistan showed an exceptional international commitment to the country. today, we have not moved much closer to the overarching goal, which is to achieve afghanistan’s self—reliance. the eu, together with its member states, is afghanistan’s largest donor and this in itself brings us extraordinary responsibilities. however, there is no other solution than that of building a coalition with other international and regional partners, the government and civil society that works even more effectively. i strongly believe that we should focus on four crucial pillars. to begin with, it is fundamental to continue promoting peace, stability and security. we must aim to achieve an inclusive peace process, as only a regional solution can be sustainable. secondly, ahead of next year’s elections, we have to advance with the difficult task of state building, with special attention given to women’s rights and the uncompromised fight against corruption. moreover, we need to accelerate economic and social development. for example, we can explore the ways in which afghanistan could use its vast mineral potential. finally, regarding the eu engagement on migration challenges, those coming back home from europe or its neighbouring countries must find a safe environment with real opportunities to restart their lives. this is essential. the people of afghanistan deserve our support and cooperation. we must carry on our common work for each and every one of them and their future, as well as for our success.
mr president, in the last decade, significant progress has been made in afghanistan. millions of children go to school, infrastructure has been built and, despite the resistance of conservative powers, women have far more rights than they did under the taliban. the recently provisionally applied cooperation agreement on partnership and development will further strengthen the areas of human rights – particularly the rights of women and children – and rule of law. however, the war in afghanistan is returning. the taliban is again gaining control and influence in parts of the country. with more violence on both sides, the number of civilian casualties is increasing. judges, government officials and even mullahs are being killed. corruption and the illicit drug trade are still uncontainable. many people stopped looking at afghanistan years ago – the typical fate of long—lasting conflicts – but afghanistan still remains at the bottom of the world peace index, together with syria. the number of afghan people in europe is increasing rapidly. therefore, the international community and the european union in particular has to continue its engagement in afghanistan to help rebuild the country, develop its economy and fight terrorism. the progress already achieved is very fragile and its sustainment requires further reforms and continuing international support for security and stability in afghanistan and the entire region.
the idea of establishing permanent structured cooperation in the field of security and defence certainly seems welcome at first sight. recent events in the eastern neighbourhood show that europe has not become a safer place since the end of the cold war. on the other hand, are we sure that we are on the right path? are we not creating a new institution without instruments of concrete impact? and more importantly, are we not doubling the size and capability of the guarantor of our homeland security, nato? have we all met our nato commitments on defense funding? these are questions that i have not yet had a clear answer to. in recent years, i have seen a tendency to solve any problem by not thinking about its causes, but simply by creating new institutions of the european union. is this really the best way?
we live in a tense time, which is particularly challenging in terms of external threats: terrorism, cyber-attacks, an aggressive russia, unstable north africa and a war-torn and conflict-ridden middle east. as a result, nato remains the most important guarantor of security and defence in europe today. however, the european union must also invest in strengthening the security of its members, as the tense security situation requires a proactive response from the european union. i am very pleased that yesterday 25 member states formally decided to establish a new network for defence and security cooperation - permanent structured cooperation (pesco) - and that they have agreed to implement the initial 17 specific projects. i congratulate you, mr federica mogherini, and thank you. these decisions are a sign that member states are committed to developing defence capabilities and increasing investment in defence. the other is undoubtedly the need to exploit and strengthen genuine cooperation between nato and the european union. i see military transit, cyber defence, response to hybrid threats and coordination in strategic communications as priority areas for cooperation. security and defence are the areas of our lives where the european union must take its destiny firmly into its own hands. i would like to thank my colleagues david mcallister and michael gahler for their excellent reports.
mr president, we have to admit that the agreement limiting iran to civilian nuclear activity was a major achievement of european and international multilateral diplomacy and will guarantee peace and stability. the deal works and delivers on its promises, fully or partially, and this agreement should be preserved. despite this milestone in practical cooperation between the european union and iran, the scope of our bilateral relations is well below potential, and we have to ask ourselves, is it not high time to focus more on the situation of ordinary iranians? to speak about the deteriorating human rights situation and the grievous condition of activists, about poverty, about corruption, the crackdown on the opposition, repression of women and religious minorities, as well as the role iran plays in syria and some other countries of the region.
it has happened that on several occasions in the past mr juncker has left the chamber for some reason when he started to speak to me. i would hope that mr frans timmermans would at least stay in the chamber and listen to the majority and to my opinion. sadly, that did not happen. in any case, my question is to the heads of the european institutions, to all of you. do you support the plans of former president of the european parliament, martin schulz, to create a united states of europe by 2025? if so, do you see these states as equal, independent states? or do you see the same level of pensions and minimum wages for citizens, for example in germany and lithuania? is the current motto 'united by diversity' starting to bother you? is a new one union, one state, one order perhaps in the making? and how do we build that state? like a new kind of democracy with sticks in catalonia? the old way, how empires were always built - by force, by symbol, by war, by blood? these are the attributes, colleagues, that you propose to put on the table in the council of ministers?
yes, ladies and gentlemen, we do indeed have a pillar of social rights and twenty principles which define the future and the essence of social europe. and i really welcome the fact that we are finally realizing that the european union has no future if we do not invest in people's lives, in our social policy. i am indeed very grateful to commissioners marianne thyssen and věra jourová for presenting the draft directive on reconciliation of work, family and private life. but i also ask the presidency and the member states why i do not see the harmonisation of the work and life directive as one of the priorities of the 18th anniversary declaration, even though there will be no consensus for this directive to enter into force, to be adopted and for people to really feel the change. it is indeed necessary that paternity leave, parental leave and sick leave for family members should be partly paid, at least as proposed by the commission. i therefore urge the member states, the presidency, the future presidencies to take this very seriously, because it is absolutely necessary in our ageing europe, given the demographic situation. i would also like to say to commissioner marianne thyssen that we social democrats have repeatedly said that we must get some 20 million children living in wealthy families in the european union out of poverty, and that the european child guarantee is therefore needed more than ever. i think it would be a very good result if we had such a guarantee in the implementation of the pillar of social rights.
in writing. children are a particularly vulnerable part of society, which must be guaranteed the highest standards of protection, have all the necessary conditions for their healthy and harmonious development, ensure the proper and effective implementation of standards for the protection of children's rights, and establish verification mechanisms to verify compliance with standards for the protection of children. sexual violence against children can occur both in real life and on the internet, and i would therefore like to stress in particular the need for a wide-ranging legal regulation, not only at national but also at eu level, covering all possible cases of violence against children, child pornography, establishing strict liability for the relevant criminal acts, as well as ways and means to prevent child pornography, sexual exploitation in the digital space by means of technology. i believe that it is particularly important to ensure that the eu legislation on the fight against sexual violence against children, their sexual exploitation and child pornography is adequate in order to ensure the harmonious development of societies in european countries.
madam president, the human rights situation in vietnam has not improved but worsened, as the case of nguyen van hoa shows repeatedly. a 22-year-old blogger and videographer, who wanted to unravel the environmental disaster in ha tinh province to the public, he was sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment for having disseminated online information. also recently a vietnamese court upheld the 10-year sentence on another blogger, nguyen ngoc nhu quynh, after she issued critical posts on environmental degradation and deaths in police custody. as the number of detentions, arrests and convictions of vietnamese citizens relating to expression of their opinions is rising, this situation and the restrictive approach of the authorities cannot be tolerated any more. i urge the vietnamese government to release all political prisoners and detainees immediately. i call on vietnam to end the repression of freedom. there can be no closer ties between the european union and vietnam without respect for all these fundamental rights.
author. – madam president, after numerous european union statements and five urgency resolutions on this legislation alone, i believe we should have learned the lesson. words alone with cambodia’s government do not, and will not, work. we must resort to action. i certainly welcome the european union’s decision to suspend all electoral assistance, but that is not sufficient. i therefore join others, my colleagues, in calling on the commission to withdraw cambodia’s participation in the ‘everything but arms’ scheme. lastly, the european external action service should, with no delay, draw up a list of those accountable for repression and impose travel bans and asset freezes on them. without all this, the democratic opposition and civil society in cambodia are doomed and we take responsibility for that situation.
author. – madam president, the european parliament adopted an urgency resolution on cambodia in september this year. however, the human rights situation is further deteriorating. there is an increasing number of political opposition members and human rights activists being arrested. therefore, the european parliament is again discussing the situation in cambodia, notably the banning of the opposition. the dissolution of the cambodia national rescue party and the worsening climate for opposition politicians raises serious concerns, as well as the strong influence of china in the political life of cambodia, which is playing an important role in political decisions in that country. we welcome the eu decision to withdraw all electoral assistance until cambodia engages in reforms, in line with international electoral standards, in order to advance democracy and protect civil society space. it is important to underline that respect for fundamental human rights is a prerequisite for cambodia to continue to benefit from the eu’s preferential everything but arms (eba) scheme. if cambodia is acting in violation of its obligations under the eba regulation, the tariff preferences it currently enjoys must be temporarily withdrawn. we urge the cambodian government to reverse the decision to dissolve the opposition party, restore the elected members of the parliament and commune council to their position, and to allow the full participation of opposition parties in public life. in the event of a failure to guarantee political and social rights in the country, further steps in the form of sanctions might be taken by the european union, such as an introduction of a list of individuals responsible for the dissolution of the opposition and other serious human rights violations in cambodia, with a view to imposing possible visa restrictions and asset freezes on them. finally, i call on high representative ms mogherini and the eu special representative for human rights to use all means available to protect the fundamental rights of the cambodian people to elect and be elected, and to guarantee pluralism and democratic principles strictly in line with cambodia’s constitution.
in writing. the situation in el salvador regarding the persecution of women for abortions is very worrying. since 2000, at least 120 women in el salvador have been prosecuted for abortion or murder in cases where the fetus died in the last months of pregnancy, and all of the convicted women have been given very long prison sentences, even though they are not criminals by international standards. moreover, gender-based violence is one of el salvador's biggest problems. the data show that one woman is sexually assaulted every three hours, and rape often results in unwanted pregnancies. the el salvador government has also committed itself to the implementation of the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the situation of the human rights of girls and women, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, in el salvador is therefore of grave concern and i therefore strongly oppose the conviction and imprisonment of women and girls who have given birth to a stillborn child or who have suffered a miscarriage and i join calls for their immediate and unconditional release.
