madam president, commissioner stylianides has just announced a series of urgent measures in the present crisis. i thank him from the bottom of my heart. immediate action is needed in a rapid and effective manner to ensure that the most vulnerable are afforded the protection to which they are entitled in the light of europe's humanitarian and human rights imperative. the time is ripe for urgency and not for a fruitless quarrel about who is responsible for the inaction of the past few years or months. later, of course, we will have to analyse whether there have been shortcomings in the emergency aid system, whether greece should be supported in its efforts, whether the response plans are sufficient, whether burden-sharing should not be fairly distributed among the 28 instead of leaving member states like greece or italy alone, which, moreover, have difficulty in solving problems that are already present before the arrival of refugees. let's stop attacking the commission. let us instead address the categorical refusal of several member states of the european union, which, out of pure national egoism or populism, do absolutely nothing to accept a sharing of the burden. this is absolutely unacceptable. i can assure you that if commissioner stylianides were given the necessary resources, he would be able to allocate all the resources available to him in a very short time to solve this problem. what needs to be tackled is the shameful behaviour of some member states of the union who, on the one hand, refuse to transfer the necessary competences to the european commission and, on the other, still have the nerve to attack the commission in relation to an action. this is absolutely disgraceful!
the question is "blue cardboard". i have just heard your speech in which you contrast migrants with refugees. it's not one or the other. don't you think that we should treat each other as human beings?
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to extend my sincere thanks to the committee on development and particularly the co-rapporteurs, mr norbert neuser and mr bogdan wenta, and the shadow rapporteur colleagues, who have put together this excellent report. representatives from this parliament and the european union member states are working together with the commission services and the european external action services towards a new european consensus on development. this would represent a paradigm shift in development cooperation under the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and enable us all to better respond to the more complex and interconnected challenges the world faces today. this resolution, ably prepared by the development committee, is an important contribution to that discussion. the european union’s global leadership in development is nowadays needed more than ever, as underlined in the eu global strategy. the rest of the world expects ambition from us in the implementation of the 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals: an agenda based on openness, multilateralism and the objective of shared prosperity. an ambitious new european consensus on development would be a very important part of our wider implementation of the 2030 agenda. it will also contribute to supporting the implementation of the landmark paris agreement on climate change. i was glad to see this house calling the revision of the consensus timely and necessary. the commission presented its proposal for a new european consensus in november, which provides the basis for the discussions ahead. a proposal for a shared vision and framework for action in development policy for the european union and its member states. the commission is looking forward to a successful conclusion of the discussions between the institutions within the first half of this year. this would allow for signature at our flagship event, the european development days in early june, and would provide the opportunity to present our new consensus internationally at the united nations high level political forum for sustainable development in july. your resolution, like the commission’s proposal, contains a strong affirmation on poverty eradication as the primary objective of eu development policy. this needs to come up clearly in the new consensus. the resolution also recognises the challenges and opportunities posed by changes in the development landscape, including global trends, increased fragility and instability, and the 2030 agenda. these would also need to be systematically addressed by our new consensus. the resolution notes the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty, which puts the objectives of development policy in the framework of the union’s broader external action. in this context, among other things, the resolution highlights the necessity to find new ways of achieving development priorities in fragile and conflict-affected countries, including by linking up more closely with humanitarian actors. under the setup of the lisbon treaty, which aims at ensuring greater coherence of the union’s policies and coordination with member states, the principles of development effectiveness and policy coherence for development and the links with other policies, such as migration, security, energy, climate, gain ever greater importance. there is so much here that we can agree on. there are also issues which we will want to discuss in greater detail in the context of the upcoming tripartite discussions. i see this resolution as an excellent contribution to this joint endeavour and i wish to thank once again the chair and the members of the development committee, and in particular the co-rapporteurs. i look forward to hearing your views in the debate today.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the 2005 european consensus, which remains a key reference in development cooperation, is a set of principles and objectives which are more or less precise, depending on the case. it should also be noted that the consensus is an interinstitutional agreement, endorsed by the commission, the council and the european parliament, which aims to give development policy a solid basis for the european union to build a common future with its partners in the south. respect for the principles of the rule of law, non-discrimination and policy coherence, which means that action in the field of development should not be undermined by interventions in other fields, is at the very heart of the report presented by our colleagues neuser and wenta. the problem is not so much to agree on commitments as to ensure that they are kept, and this is precisely where the problem lies: what good is the commitment to raise official development assistance to 0.7% of gdp if it is not kept? would it not be wise to provide, in addition to the objective of funding, a political mechanism to enforce it? failure to provide for this mechanism is tantamount to perpetuating the haarlesean, which is to always predict the same event, while knowing that it will never happen. similarly, policy coherence will remain a dead letter unless there is an arbitration mechanism to decide when two or more departments differ in a major area. finally - and i should have started with this - do we all share the same idea of what the european union's development policy means? in my view - and this is why i introduced an amendment - it is the respect of human dignity through the eradication of poverty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when i look at the current un population figures, which are projected for africa, that the african continent will at least double its population by 2050, if not multiply by two and a half, i can only wonder, given what some colleagues on the left are telling us here. two and a half billion africans should be able to count on us to support them in their right to live in security and in a reliable state. this is not only about protecting ourselves from the pressure of migration, but it is about preventing the total explosion or implosion of the african continent through a coherent development policy. and that is in our own best interests. i would add to the end, because you will not give me much more time, that we may even need to join forces with actors like china in this context to share tasks. that would be better for africa and, if necessary, for us.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, thinking about the future of europe may seem less utopian than it might seem. altiero spinelli did this in the midst of the war and later in the early 1980s, in the midst of the economic and institutional crisis. many of his proposals have since been adopted. so let's be more confident, or, in churchill's words, "the pessimist is the one who sees difficulty in every opportunity, and the optimist is the one who sees opportunity in every difficulty". we want to keep the euro, so let us implement the policies that are essential to its consolidation. the report by the five presidents - brok, bresso, verhofstadt, böge and berès - provides essential elements for this reflection. we lament the democratic deficit in the euro area, but it is useless if we continue to oppose real control by the european parliament. this requires a change in the treaty. we want the union's foreign policy to have a face, so let us accept the authority of mrs mogherini rather than foreseeing a different format for each negotiation in which she has no place. the high representative should be the one to lead all these initiatives. we can do this without changing the treaty. we are concerned about the fragility of some member states which are on the verge of falling into the hands of populists. so let us put the european citizen at the centre of the european construction. as for european citizenship, it is the most valuable asset of the european construction. if you really want to appreciate the value of european citizenship, i suggest you talk about it to the british citizens who are at risk of losing it. it is in their testimony that you will discover a commitment to our values, a zeal that will not leave you indifferent. i saw this when i proposed the concept of 'associated european citizenship' for former member states' nationals. fate would be a poor adviser in this matter.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate danuta maria hübner, who has worked for the broadest possible consensus so that parliament's messages are heard, who recalls the requests made in last year's report on the banking union, but who also monitors what is working and what is not working well in the banking union. it should be noted that there is significant progress: the system established by the bank recovery and resolution directive (brrd) and the deposit guarantee schemes directive (dgsd) is taking shape, the single supervisory mechanism is functioning, the work of the joint supervisory teams is developing shared expertise and knowledge, the resolution mechanism entered into force on 1 january 2016, the single resolution fund is starting to be staffed. but we are aware that mortgages weigh heavily on the stability and sustainability of our banking system and, therefore, on the european economy. i shall mention only bad loans, the prudential treatment of sovereign debt, the question of state aid and, above all, the fact that the banking union is not complete. the third pillar is missing, there is no budget support mechanism. the risk of 'too big to fail' is not eliminated and, without prejudice to discussions on the various points, there is an urgent need to complete the banking union in the interests of the real economy, but above all to reassure and protect citizens' deposits. there are therefore still many important issues to be finalised, and at the same time there is a need to ensure that day-to-day operations are carried out and that coherence between overlapping regulations is ensured or even established, that adequate resources are available and that greater attention is paid to it security. in short, we must legislate, but at the same time we must ensure that the regulations are properly implemented.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard everything about ceta. i would like to return to the facts for a moment, because voting for ceta means guaranteeing reciprocity, supporting our smes, promoting quality products, protecting consumers and defending our artists. voting against it is perpetuating private justice and rejecting high international standards in social, environmental and agri-food matters. voting for ceta is setting the standard for future international agreements and regulating globalisation in line with our values and interests. voting against is consenting to the lack of reciprocity and the absence of rules. voting for ceta means protecting and sharing values, cementing standards and creating jobs. that is why i am voting for ceta, to assert europe's leadership and to endorse an agreement that is in the interests of citizens and businesses, and that cements our democratic values and systems.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my doubts that albert camus would welcome the misappropriation of his name by the national front in this chamber. i would still like to say to the representative of the national front and to the member of whatever british party, perhaps a little off the mark, to the right, who spoke earlier, that the problem is not the borders because those who commit attacks in the middle of europe were born here, were radicalized here, perhaps travelled outside europe and returned. in the end, it was our citizens who made a mistake in their course. i do not excuse them and i would like them to be convicted for this once they are arrested. but i reject and denounce this stupid, fundamentally stupid attitude of telling europeans that the misery comes from outside. poverty is produced in our poorly governed suburbs, whether in france, belgium, the netherlands or the united kingdom. poverty and radicalisation in europe are a reality. radicalisation in our prisons is a reality. radicalisation in our failing social structures is a reality. our problem is that we often preach the right things but we struggle to do them. i therefore welcome all the new elements in the legislation presented by mrs hohlmeier, but i would also like to see us putting much more emphasis on the rigorous strengthening of what already exists. (the speaker refuses to answer a question by mr georgios epitideios)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet. they are not science fiction: all kinds of robots are already on the market, new, more autonomous robots are being developed in laboratories. it is therefore urgent that the widest possible debate should take place and not be confined to the circle of scientists and engineers, because the question is to organise, for the good of man, the interaction of human beings with these new machines which are becoming more and more autonomous. i would like to make two points clear right away: firstly, robots are not human beings and there is no question of equating them with humans, and secondly, european robotics industry and research are very successful and we intend to support them. robotics and artificial intelligence are sectors of the future. it is important that europe remains competitive on the world market. this is why the time has come to set out principles that will serve as a guide and framework for the development of robotics. regulations should be made, but not excessively, when necessary. the first is the question of civil liability in the event of damage caused by a robot. there are two options: either strict liability or risk-based management, but the main thing is that there is reparation for the damage caused. we need to speed up standardization. to ensure the highest possible level of security, protocols must be established. as far as testing is concerned, why not create zones in europe where all kinds of robots can be tested on a life-size scale in real life? the biggest challenge is the enforcement of data protection regulations. robots collect and receive masses of information of all kinds: who owns this data, who has access to it? the report proposes an ethical charter, a code of conduct for programmers, because we want robots whose actions serve the well-being of humans and which respect dignity, privacy and freedom. we insist on the need for transparency, that the actions of robots be explained and explainable, and that they be understandable to ordinary mortals. the deployment of robots will affect all aspects of life and therefore work. the studies differ: some predict a massive job loss, others are less pessimistic and consider that the jobs lost will be offset by the creation of new jobs. however, it is clear that our ways of working will change and that our education systems will face enormous challenges in re-training those in work and training young people for jobs that do not yet exist. the report is not technophobic, it identifies the positive contributions: robots will be able to perform dangerous or arduous work, they will facilitate the work of many professionals, they will promote the integration of people with disabilities. but no one can predict whether robots will destroy more jobs than they create. but i hear my fellow citizens and i hear great anxiety in many of them. i therefore believe that we must take them seriously, prepare for different scenarios and think about possible solutions. if work is indeed becoming scarce, we must ensure that all our citizens have an income sufficient to live a decent life. that is why i am calling for a rational debate, backed by expertise and research, on the option of a universal income and, of course, how to finance it by looking for alternative sources of funding. i do not wish the debate to be killed off before it has begun. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues who have enriched this report, the secretariat, the parliament's services and above all the stoa team who have accompanied us on this great adventure.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone for the inspiring discussions tonight. we have touched really upon a very broad array of complex issues: technology and society – ms lauristin brought us that issue which for me is fundamental in terms of research; jobs; regulation, with ms charanzová; and education, there we had mr maštálka, mr kósa and ms kyllönen who brought us the big changes that will have to take place in education. also ms rozière with la valeur humaniste, very important for our debate, and also sectors like health – mr buşoi and mr selimovic brought these to the table. so there was a really fantastic discussion with so many ideas for the future. but one thing that was clear from our discussion is that we all agree, and i think ms kallas was the first to say it, that we want to promote innovation, we do not want to stop innovation, and that has to be very clear and i was very happy that we agree on that. but there is a political choice to make, to think what we want for the future and i think we agree that we don’t want robots to replace us; we want robots to get us to be better at doing things that we can’t do alone. we want them to really augment our abilities and get us to a better place. not so long ago in real time the following experiment was carried out: experts, medical experts, looking at scanners of lung cancer compared to machines, looking at the same scans. the results were staggering: machines were 50% better than doctors. but more than that, the false negatives – meaning when you miss cancer and you put someone in danger – was zero for the machine and 7% for great medical experts. that changes the profession but changes it in a good way, because the machines will never be able to relate the whole human body and the different diseases; they will be very good at this specific task and the doctors will be good at the other task, which is to relate all the tasks [to each other]. so robotics changes jobs, it is true, and makes us better, to focus on what we are good at. i believe that we can digitalise everything but we cannot digitalise experience, we cannot digitalise the experience of life, we cannot digitalise the experience of what we do. so i believe that we will have a better future, it will be a future that will entail complex policy changes, and that is why this report is so important. that is why we need together to shape this process and create the framework which allows robotics and artificial intelligence to create all the desired advantages – and there are so many –while safeguarding the fundamental values of our society and important features of our economy, striking the right balance between all the interests at stake.
i would like to thank all those who have spoken. today's discussions, like those held in committee, have above all shown the multiplicity and complexity of the questions which arise from a legal, ethical and social point of view. i would simply say that the report asks the commission to propose regulations to regulate what needs to be regulated, in particular liability. moreover, it is a report which seeks to launch a debate. today we are not at the end of history but only at the beginning, and we must think about the world of tomorrow. with all i've discovered, i say yes to innovation. i have full confidence in the creativity of our researchers and scientists. but i cannot ignore the fears and anxieties of the people i meet and i don't have the arrogance to tell them that their fears are unwarranted because everything will be fine in the best of all worlds. they need to be taken seriously and given answers. that is why i am asking for a debate to be held. i would also like to stress the problem of legal personality. the report does not say that robots should be given legal personality. if you have read it correctly, in this report we are asking the commission to explore, analyse and consider the implications of all the legal solutions which are under discussion in relation to the legal personality of robots, with regard to liability and therefore compensation for the damage suffered. i am also surprised that a parliament refuses to debate ideas that are in the intellectual world, that are published in books and that represent schools of thought before the debate has even begun. therefore, all i ask is that you look quietly, reason, listen and then decide.
mr president, i think we must choose our path, and as soon as possible. i agree with those who say that talking, talking, talking... is useless. we must act, and then europe à la carte is enough! the boost europe needs can only come from a core of european countries ready to move forward towards a europe of security, but with common instruments, towards a europe of peace, with common defence capabilities and a real foreign minister, towards a europe of prosperity, with a budget worthy of the name to invest in youth, social progress and digital and energy infrastructures, towards a europe of freedom, with the conditionality of european funds to respect the law and values of the union, and towards a europe of democracy, with a directly elected president and a council of ministers acting by a simple majority. to meet these challenges, we must rebuild europe around those who have ambition for our union. so let us reform europe with common and concrete actions. the sovereignty of future generations, their ability to decide their own rules and control their own destiny, depends on it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to reassure you that the commission is taking all necessary action to make sure that eu law is fully respected. until the treaties cease to apply to a member state that has notified the european council of its intention to withdraw from the union, in accordance with article 50, such a member state remains a member of the eu, with all rights and obligations. eu law continues to apply in full to the united kingdom and in the united kingdom until it is no longer a member of the european union.
author. madam president, the court of justice is one of the important institutions of the european union. in a way, it symbolizes the rule of law, the european area of justice, which is one of the pillars of our democracy. the european parliament is very much attached to the proper functioning of the court of justice. he has shown this in the past by making sure that the necessary resources are allocated to it. i want to see the goodwill of the vast majority of members of parliament when it came to reforming the court. with little enthusiasm, but with the aim of allowing the court to function properly, we accepted, in october 2015, the council's proposal to double the number of judges on the court, whereas the council had failed to agree on a smaller increase in the number of judges or a rotation system. parliament has therefore always supported the court when it was asked to do so, because we believe that in a democracy citizens must be guaranteed access to justice, fair trials within a reasonable time and effective justice. but our democracy is also distinguished by respect for human rights, for our values, among which, of course, is the principle of equality. i would like to recall that, when the court of justice of the union was reformed, parliament insisted on respect for equality between men and women. during the trilogues, the council had promised and committed itself to proposing more women for judges at both the court and the general court. we have even introduced a sophisticated calendar by amendment, which allows member states to appoint two judges at a time, which should have made it easier to respect parity. we know, of course, that the appointment of judges is not a matter for the european parliament, but i would expect the member states to respect their commitment. what do we see today? of the 28 judges of the court of justice, only 5 are women. of the 44 judges on the court, only 10 are women. that's 15 women out of 72 judges. barely 20 percent. the council representatives will tell me that this is a legacy of the past. i guess so. but how do we explain that of the 15 newly appointed judges, only three are women? this is outrageous and unacceptable. i cannot believe that in our member states there is no way of finding women judges who are capable of sitting in the court of justice or in the courts. moreover, i cannot believe that the member states are not committed to equality between men and women. it seems to me to be elementary. i remind you that we live in the 21st century. our grandmothers were ridiculed, but they fought for the right to study, to access positions of responsibility. we're not there yet. we have a european justice system which is predominantly man-made and a judicial system which lacks the cross-eyedness of women. therefore, my question to the representatives of the member states is: what do you intend to do to fulfil the commitments you made to promote gender equality when appointing judges to the european court of justice? do you not think that a balanced representation of men and women is an asset for the court of justice and for quality justice? finally, i would like to congratulate the member states which have proposed women and thus ensured a better balance between men and women in the court and the tribunal, and at the same time express my disappointment, even contempt, for the countries which have not done so.
mr president, let us take a concrete example to illustrate the tragedy created by the rule of the global gag: in order to save the life of a pregnant woman in a conflict zone, the doctor responsible for her treatment sees no other solution than terminating the pregnancy, in agreement with his patient. does he have to explain the provisions of american law to this woman or is he going to treat her? by performing the ivf procedure in question, the doctor saves a life, but he also exposes the ngo for which he works to the risk of losing all public support from the united states. we are addressing this issue today to let this doctor know that we support him, and that we find it baffling that his choice is being called into question by the global gag rule. if he saves a life, he weakens his ngo. if he wants his ngo to continue to function, he lets the pregnant woman die. anyone who has any idea of the tragedies these women are going through should stop practicing the blackmail that the humanitarian sector is suffering as a result of the application of this law. let the doctor do what he wants, in agreement with his patient. this is what the european union is doing and we encourage it to continue along this path. a few moments ago i heard mrs storch's fervent plea for respect for life. i wonder where her legendary humanism was when she said that it would be appropriate, from time to time, to shoot asylum seekers at the border crossing.
madam president, the european union's priorities for the 34th session of the united nations human rights council provide an excellent basis for discussion. we are, of course, aware of the obstacles which still stand in the way of respect for human rights in the world, of the reference to ancestral traditions, of the right of peoples to self-determination. in short, all the excuses are in order to leave many countries in the most total disregard of fundamental rights. the universal convention on human rights is, of course, universal and not confined to one continent, even the european continent. we support your willingness to focus on certain priorities, commissioner, including the rights of the child. when will we finally be able to ban child marriage? yes, the european union document mentions early and forced marriage among the human rights violations. as we all support a coherent policy on the european union's external relations, i think it is appropriate to make this a priority in the post-cotonou negotiations and to see to what extent it can be made a prerequisite for further cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, we have put the famine threatening five countries on the agenda of our session because time is running out, not just today but since february, when the world food programme, unicef and fao reported the first victims. moreover, the current crisis is different from the past in that it occurs in a large number of countries at the same time. it should be remembered that some 30 countries are dependent on external food aid and that five of them have entered the acute phase of the food catastrophe. we can sum up the present crisis in a long way and conclude that the five countries most affected are all marked by conflict. this does not explain everything, but internal conflicts are often such that the distribution of food aid is almost impossible. the drought in east africa is also a factor, but it only partially explains the current famine. if it is not a conflict between shiites and sunnis, it is an ethnic war that is endangering millions of lives, including many children, who are now skin to bones. it is up to us to act with our means of humanitarian intervention, while being aware that we cannot do everything, unfortunately. the fact that human stupidity and malice are clearly among the causes of the present famine does not justify our remaining indifferent to the plight of the threatened populations. i do not doubt for a moment the willingness of the commission and its valiant commissioner, mr stylianides, to do everything possible to alleviate the suffering of the people concerned. i fully agree with mr stylianides' analysis and diagnosis, and with the proposals he has put forward.
madam president, an analysis of a eurostat survey shows that our citizens are in fact ahead of the curve on european defence policy. it is rather paradoxical, but in the spirit of 1954, when the eec was about to be established, our citizens are, of course, more than half a century behind in their ambitions, but ahead of the policy, which remains too passive in this area. the current context, in addition to the various shortcomings in european defence, further complicates the debate. military defence is a last resort that can be employed when all other means have failed. we remember that in the midst of the cold war, the former german foreign minister, genscher, made a bet on the future: frieden schaffen mit weniger waffen (ensuring peace with less arms). genscher won his bet thanks to a vast diplomatic offensive and also thanks to the agreement of the united states. today, since trump's election, transatlantic relations are in such a state that an increase, even a very substantial one, in european defence spending would still leave the question of european security open, unless trump puts an end to his ambivalent discourse. one of the priorities at the moment is therefore to provide some clarification in this area and to test the strength of relations within nato. this in no way diminishes the value of the report by our colleague mr gahler, whose proposals are useful for the future, but only a coherent approach would be able to produce satisfactory results in the field of safety. in this context, very effective diplomacy should also be promoted. a french personality could be a face for european politics. why a french personality? because france is everywhere that others do not want to go, it is the first and it is rarely followed by others, who have only "life" to offer. thirdly, respect for our european institutions and our treaties: a foreign policy and not 28 parallel policies, which make us lose all reference in this matter, this to remind us that the credibility of our security and defence policy requires a mastery of all the aggregates of the policy relating to security and defence.
mr president, i think we are still witnessing the same circus in this house: a far right and a less extreme but nevertheless visible right trying to tell us that all problems could be solved by building walls and closing borders. for me, with one billion africans without hope today, two billion africans in misery tomorrow and perhaps three billion africans in utter destitution the day after tomorrow, borders and walls will not solve anything. the only solution will be a multilateral development policy that will benefit all the places, unfortunately far too many, where people are fleeing. they are fleeing from poverty, war, hunger, poor governance and corruption, all of which are unfortunately all around us, which are becoming more and more oppressive over time and which we will not be able to combat without decisive action, carried out with our partners in the regions around us, particularly in africa. european policy, through the external investment fund and the africa fund, is a good policy. i do not think, however, that the resources currently available are sufficient. we will have to amplify them by involving other partners, and i am thinking in particular of china. finally, i think that the strengthening of the state in africa is a necessity, but the strengthening of the state in africa must not only manifest itself at the borders but above all in the essence of the african state, which must become a state of law. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i understand and i don't understand the question at the same time. here again, it's always the same problem. for me, an immigrant is no more repulsive than a refugee. a person who moves out of necessity and desperation has no less good reasons than another to leave his country. in the end, we are faced with all kinds of phenomena. we are faced - and we will be faced even more in the future - with a migration of poverty from the south. to respond to this misery, we must design policies that cannot be based on building walls.
madam president, a successful divorce is better than a failed marriage, and for that to be the case with brexit, several conditions are necessary. first, the conditions for separation must be given priority: child custody, division of property, reciprocal and prompt access. the european parliament has understood this well, asking for guarantees for citizens, debts and external borders. there may then be a transitional period for everyone to adjust to their new life, provided that the payment of maintenance is monitored by the judge. here too, the message is clear: no rights without duties, no access to the internal market without respect for the four freedoms. after the divorce is finalized, and not before, it takes maturity to maintain civilized relations, even if nothing will be as it was before. hence our demands: no dumping that turns the uk into a transit country, no blackmail that exchanges free movement or the safety of citizens for trade. divorce is a new beginning. for us, brexit will be the renewal of europe, with the treaties as the main thread.
madam president, my question is simply: is the privacy shield stillborn? vault 7 revealed that the cia tapped directly into our smartphones; microsoft and apple court cases exposed the fbi tendency to bypass existing legal frameworks to access data; the congressional review act allowed comcast, at&t and verizon to use people’s data without their consent and trump’s muslim ban ordered agencies to exclude non-american citizens, not only muslims, from their privacy policies. now all this has taken place after the adoption of the new framework and all eyes are now riveted on the foreign intelligence surveillance act (fisa) section 702. i would like to ask the commissioner, does she really feel assured? the article 29 working group does not because yes, the privacy shield has improved safe harbour but, no, it did not assuage many of our concerns. the problem is, and always has been, the use of national security as a blanket exemption and this is one of the numerous questions that need answers, most of all during the upcoming review. concrete evidence must prevail over alternative facts, legal obligations over written commitments, meps’ demands over congressmen’s promises. we must build a transatlantic digital bridge on a rock-solid privacy pillar and unfortunately, i have the feeling that the shield might already have turned into a smokescreen.
madam president, prime minister, thank you for being here and thank you also for writing to me recently. a couple of years ago we started off with the constitution – media freedom, retirement age for judges. we have witnessed several unspeakably worded national consultations in the meantime. we have witnessed an attempt – or rather a vague idea – to reintroduce the death penalty, and all that coming from a man who is constantly referring to christian values. it escapes me, prime minister, where the death penalty would be on any christian agenda, and i have rarely found any christian theologian who would have been able to find anything good about the death penalty. now it is about a university, it is about ngos, it is, above all, about the next national consultation. the ngo thing, prime minister, is not about transparency as we all know: it is in order to label ngos that are foreign-funded as ‘foreign’, because they might carry foreign influence in hungary, and foreign influence is bad. now the only thing that comes to my mind in this context is if all foreign influence is so bad, why do you accept the payment of eur 5 billion euros annually as a big net recipient of european structural funds in order to plaster the whole country with the posters in which you called brussels crap? somebody who does that, prime minister, leaves the union out of their own accord. (applause)
member of the commission. – mr president, i am here in this debate on behalf of my dear colleague first vice-president frans timmermans. first of all, and on behalf of the vice-president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr karim, for his excellent report on the commission’s report for 2014 on subsidiarity and proportionality. subsidiarity and proportionality must be at the heart of the european democratic process. they are key to our objective of being big on the big things and small on the small things. the commission has committed itself to give real effect to the principle of subsidiarity. we want to work with the national parliaments and eu institutions to ensure that every proposal complies with that principle. last year parliament, the council and the commission signed the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. the commission is pleased that all the institutions have committed to ensuring that subsidiarity must remain a key element throughout the legislative procedure. turning to some of the suggestions in the karim report, the report calls on the commission to reflect on its relations with national parliaments in general and specifically as regards subsidiarity scrutiny. the juncker commission pledged to forge a new partnership with national parliaments. halfway through the commission mandate, members of the commission have had more than 550 meetings with national parliaments – 550 meetings. these meetings give members of the commission a possibility to explain what we do and why we do it. they also allow us to listen to the concerns of national parliaments and their citizens. the commission will continue engaging with national parliaments for the rest of its mandate, for our mandate. the report also calls on the commission to reflect on possible changes to the subsidiarity control mechanisms, for instance through a political agreement between the institutions. the commission is always open to discussing new ways of working together, but we must do it while respecting the existing treaties and the institutional balance which is laid down therein. i am much more in favour of pragmatic workable approaches where possible and where they respect the treaties. an example of a pragmatic approach also supported in the report is the idea that national parliaments should be able to invite the commission to table a proposal for new or attendant legislation, the so-called ‘green card mechanism’. the commission supports this initiative, and is pleased it has already become the practice without setting up new institutional and administrative structures. for instance, 18 parliamentary chambers in 2015 submitted an initiative on food waste to the commission. some of the suggestions in the initiative on food donation, data collection and monitoring were reflected in the circular economy package adopted in december 2015. this example shows that national parliaments can play a constructive role and that the commission is ready to discuss constructive suggestions from national parliaments. let me conclude by reassuring all members that the commission will make sure that subsidiarity and proportionality remain at the heart of the european democratic process.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank first of all mr karim our rapporteur on the 2014 report on subsidiarity and proportionality not only for the quality of his report but also for its availability and openness which allowed for a broad agreement between political parties. subsidiarity and proportionality are fundamental principles of the european union. everyone agrees. but sometimes, on some issues, it can be difficult to define the appropriate level of action between the union and the member states. we therefore welcome the measures in the better regulation agreement adopted in may 2015, which provides for more detailed explanations on subsidiarity and proportionality, which should improve the quality of trade. however, both principles must be applied in a balanced way. a balance must be struck between the effectiveness of union action on the one hand and national sensitivities on the other. subsidiarity must not be used as a pretext to prevent progress by the european union; it must also respect the specific characteristics of the member states. a balance must also be struck between a bottom-up approach and an up-and-down approach. this is not to call into question the right of initiative of the european commission, nor the prerogatives of the council of ministers and the european parliament as co-legislators, but it is important to involve national parliaments, as the expression of public opinion in their member state, in the elaboration of common policies. in fact, national parliaments already have many opportunities to make their voices heard. at national level, they give their views to their ministers, who sit in the council of ministers, but also respond to public consultations opened by the european institutions or give their opinions on white and green papers, either individually or at interparliamentary meetings. we can go further and consider the introduction of a green card. today, national parliaments have the opportunity to oppose legislation by means of a yellow card, which often suggests that the european union is a threat to the member states. the green card, on the other hand, would allow national parliaments to suggest initiatives to the commission, making them committed and proactive actors in the construction of europe and the improvement of its functioning. in conclusion, this report is a positive one and i am delighted to be able to support it.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, at a time when the united kingdom is about to turn its back on the european union, it seems to me useful to think already about europe's weight in the future g7. europe will be doubly affected by brexit, as it will have only three member states in the g7. the european union as such will therefore have less weight in this forum. over the years, the union has assumed more responsibilities within the g7. would it not be wise, therefore, to prepare it gradually to represent exclusively all its member states, rather than to remain attached to this baroque construction? there are two possibilities: either italy, germany and france fully accept the positions articulated by the commission in the g7 in the future, in which case a single european representative at this table would be sufficient, or the actors differ on the issues on the agenda, which would seriously damage the credibility of our union. i would like to ask the commission and the council presidency what they think of a single representation of the european union in the g7 and if, if necessary, they would agree to start thinking about this.
the commission has already done so. two years ago, at a large conference in brussels, the commission advocated a social approach to road transport. the motto at the time was to put the workers, the drivers, in the centre. you made us wait a long time, a very long time. and, of course, as time goes on, the rumors do get heated. i'm worried about what i'm hearing, i'm worried about what i'm reading. as a representative of the people, i think that we as a parliament cannot just sit back and wait. that is why we have drawn up the resolution, even though it is no longer taken into account. hope is the last thing to die. i would like to raise a few points which are important to me personally and to us as the epp. we do not want any further liberalization of cabotage. it's a three- or five-day extension. this is unacceptable to me. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or does the commission intend to introduce more flexibility? and if so, has the commission examined a procedure to see how longer working hours could affect safety and how social conditions are also affected? finally, i remain hopeful that the commission will present a balanced package that protects drivers, guarantees fair competition, does not involve additional administrative burden and will increase road safety through digitalisation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that we have a positive impression of the whole thing at the moment. but as we know, the devil is in the detail, and we need to analyze that a little more consistently. for example, the difference between cabotage and posting. you made that very clear. but we still need to analyze that. there's bound to be another loophole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. improving controls: the whole thing stands or falls with the controls. i would have liked to see a focus on digitisation, i.e. the use of modern, intelligent tachographs, and to see more use of these. as regards loopholes, a proposal must be made as soon as possible to prevent the business model from being below 3.5 tonnes.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the european consensus for development is like nato press releases. only those who negotiated them can understand them. the participation in the trilogue on consensus was very revealing in this respect, for several reasons. we have seen once again the limits of the unanimous decision. these limits are dictated in particular by the budgetary constraints of one or more member states. it is no wonder that the target of devoting 0.7% of gross domestic product to official development assistance has become a harlequin, the event that is always announced but never happens. would it not be appropriate to change the method, since it has not worked for nearly 50 years? not a single essential demand of the european parliament was accepted by the council, which proved intransigent in the face of blackmail by a minority of member states, and in particular by one. however, the european parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of clear and verifiable commitments, calling on member states to report to it on their oda efforts. it won't be. the few sibylline phrases in this document that deal with this issue hardly conceal the contempt that some member states have for the european parliament. can you understand why all our member states agree to appear before the oecd development assistance committee, to inform the ambassadors of japan, mexico, new zealand and the united states of the content of their policies and at the same time refuse to refer them to our development committee? the promises of 0.7% seem to engage only those who receive them. the european development consensus allocates 0.7% of official development assistance, while at the same time several member states announced substantial reductions in their official development assistance ahead of the addis ababa conference. so should we believe those who say 0.7% or should we believe them when they say they want to go well below 0.7%? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in addition, official development assistance has a highly political dimension. with brexit, we will lose one of the few member states that spends 0.7% of its gdp on this. it is not enough to talk about the fact that the european union is the only global player in development. if we want to remain so after the uk leaves, we must leave behind the laxity which accepts the laissez-faire and the laissez-faire of the member states in this area. so you will understand that we abstained in the vote on consensus and that we voted on our alternative joint resolution.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i would like to ask mrs toia what her opinion would have been if she had attended these negotiations, where we rightly supported the ambitions of the commission, the council and the european parliament in this matter. indeed, whenever it has been a question of showing good will to follow up commitments, to see to what extent they will be implemented, to ensure parliamentary control in this area, we have always ended up not receiving anything. this is not to denigrate the aims of development but to denounce the intolerable behaviour of one or more states at the council level. with all due respect to our two co-rapporteurs, i would like to say that mrs linda mcavan and i have hit a wall: it is unfortunate that the european union is acting in this way.
a writer. the commission is not we have been negotiating for a long time to undo a mistake made ten years ago. remember, under pressure from the conservatives in this house, we went along with industry ten years ago. the industry said at the time that instead of having a, b, c - simple, understandable for the citizens - energy classes, we are going to a+, a++, a+++. we greens warned at the time that this would lead to a weakening of information for the public. and we were right! we were now in a time when the last refrigerator that was even approved was class a. that means the whole labelling regime was no longer working. we're improving that today, and that's the good news. this means, dear citizens, that from now on, across europe, there will be clear signals to buy a-equipment from refrigerators, freezers and so on. and we have introduced a transparency platform. we will also be able to carry out effective checks at the european border when any unwanted goods are trying to enter europe, in order to protect the high-quality products, which often come from europe, from the inferior quality that comes from outside. there is one weakness in all of this, and that is the question: how do we deal with oil and gas heating in the future? i see that colleague reul has just joined us. herbert has fought very successfully to keep oil and gas on the market, virtually forever. i think if we're serious about climate change, there has to come a point where we say in new homes, we can't afford to use fossil fuels for heating anymore. that also has to do with the discussion tomorrow. tomorrow we'll talk about trump, about him getting out of paris. we cannot say one day: 'trump is irresponsible' and not, as it were, fight for climate protection in europe the next day.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we've known since march that monsanto is lying, hiding, and worse, using the worst intelligence methods to persecute scientists from a un agency, and in the us, with trump now trying to cut funding to these un organizations -- just because this organization has independent scientists. and what has the commission been doing since the monsanto leaks? keep it up. 10 more years of this product. why are we greens interested in this dossier? the credibility of europe is at stake here. that is why we wrote letters in march, and that is why we are going to the european court of justice to clarify which studies are being made available. i can only warn the commission of mr juncker: this is not just about health, this is not just about agriculture, this is about trust in europe.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank elena valenciano and all the members of this parliament for the excellent work they have done in these two and a half years of negotiations, which have been difficult, important and courageous, both for us and for our cuban counterpart, and which have brought us today, with tomorrow's vote, to a very important step. i share elena valenciano's assessment that the political signal, almost the cultural signal, of this transition is extremely important, not only for relations between the european union and the island, but also as a strong sign of the european union's total commitment to our partnership with all of latin america and the caribbean. it is a commitment that is embodied in many aspects, with bilateral relations with very different countries: we sometimes make the mistake of thinking that latin america and the caribbean are one coherent bloc, when there are situations that are extremely different. the strength of europe, the strength of the european union - and i think you know this very well in this house - lies in being able to build relationships of commitment, dialogue and even cooperation and partnership, in some cases, with all of latin america and the caribbean, in a sense and in a spirit of frankness, of open friendship, even by tackling difficult issues with a sense of cooperation that comes from very strong ties: the european union has always had cultural, historical, economic and sometimes political ties, including with cuba. it was a courageous two-year process, exemplary in some cases, as elena valenciano said, and a true demonstration of the european union's commitment to dialogue. we have been doing part of this together with the american administration, in parallel. i think it is even more fundamental, today, when some in washington are investing more in a change of pace, to reaffirm once again that the european union does not change its mind, does not change the course of its policy and proceeds in a courageous, open, without taboos, firmly on the road of engagement, dialogue and cooperation with cuba and with all cubans. because our friendship, our agreement, will allow us to accompany the whole island, all cuban citizens, in the process of social, economic and political modernisation that has been initiated since 2008 by the island's authorities. the european union will be able to support them not only through dialogue but also through technical expertise: in some areas it can be extremely useful. the agreement is not just an agreement on political dialogue, but also a cooperation agreement which opens up the possibility of working together in many areas which are also of fundamental importance for the european union, from cooperation on global issues in international forums to cooperation on regional issues. let us not underestimate the role that cuba can play in helping to resolve or understand some of the crises in the region which are also fundamental for the european union - i am thinking of venezuela, first of all. it is an agreement which allows us to initiate sectoral dialogues and cooperation in very important areas, from the protection of artistic heritage, to cultural cooperation, to energy, migration, the environment, scientific cooperation and many others, including the dialogue on human rights. elena valenciano said it very well: this dialogue we have started and which i know about - our special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, has reported to this parliament - is possible precisely because the european union has turned the page, has engaged in a respectful dialogue, recognizing the differences that exist in terms of political system, even values in some cases, but also the points of convergence of certain values. i believe that this open, frank, constructive and respectful dialogue can be a very useful basis, also for this parliament, as we proceed with the provisional entry into force of the agreement, with ratification by the member states, in a very pragmatic but also transparent approach, which is bearing fruit. and i believe that this commitment, this way of engaging on an equal footing, without having lessons to teach, but by making our experience available and affirming a friendship with the cuban people, first of all, can be a useful way to go. i would like to thank not only elena valenciano, but also all of you and the committees involved in this process, which i know has been particularly intense. i would like to share with you the satisfaction i had last december when we signed the agreement with the cuban foreign minister in brussels, with the clear and distinct feeling that we had turned a page in history. i think it's crucial for the credibility of the european union in the region, but also in the world, that this becomes the way we deal with situations that have been difficult for years: i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work to ensure that the european parliament is not left to the mercy of the council, but that it is not the council that is responsible for the decisions taken by the council. this is not the europe our citizens are asking us to have, and i believe that together - parliament and all the institutions - we have succeeded in offering a good page of the european union's international engagement. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank - and i will conclude very briefly - our cuban counterparts, who have been engaged with great openness, also mentally, with great negotiating effort during all these years of negotiations, with a great sense of respect for differences and also for difficulties, but always looking for a solution. and i think they've really shown a great ability to meet. i am reminded of the words pope francis used during his last visit to cuba, when he said that the island can be the capital of a crossroads, of a bridge, of many worlds: north, south, east and west. i believe that this agreement we have, your vote tomorrow, is in some way honouring this idea of the island as a bridge with which the european union, all of europe, has decided to build a commitment.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, limiting myself to development issues, because that has been my role, i would simply say that this agreement is certainly good news. it will now provide a useful framework for the assistance and support that the european union is providing to the cuban people. on the development side, we will continue to focus on the aspects of food self-sufficiency, which is essential, and sustainable energy production, which is a sector of the future for cuba. the only problem is that cuba is now classified as an upper middle income country and therefore the eu's development cooperation instrument may soon no longer be applicable to it. this should be taken into account when we revise this instrument, because it would be a pity if our cooperation effort with cuba - a budget of €50 million until 2020 - were to stop simply because we classify this country in a specific income category. in conclusion, i would like to say that we all hope that through more exchanges, including economic exchanges, we will gradually but effectively contribute to instilling socio-economic, social and political changes in cuba which will go in the direction of our dialogue on human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank president juncker and especially his commissioner for international cooperation and development, mr mimica, for what i consider to be one of the best initiatives that this commission has taken. for three or four years i have been fighting alongside jean-louis borloo, the former french minister for the environment, to organize a future for young people in africa. poverty is linked to the fact that there is no electricity in the villages. when there is no electricity in the villages, people migrate to the capital and its slums, and if they do not find a future there, they pay the mafia and risk their lives to come to europe. so the only way to combat these waves of migrants and their despair is to bring solar energy to africa. the good news is that for this purpose, today, solar is quite cheap. this instrument will enable us to offer african countries reduced capital costs and institutional dialogue to help them put in place the national laws needed to attract investors. i would like to congratulate all those who have speeded up this process.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we should be extremely proud of what we have achieved with this legislation, under the leadership of jerzy buzek, with a good negotiation team where some of us had to play the bad guys at certain moments to move the show forward, and very good cooperation with the commission. i am happy to see mr arias cañete, but also mr ristori, whose services helped us a lot. what did we achieve here? this is concrete solidarity. we now have a solution for one of the biggest divides in europe, which was that gazprom and russia could abuse not only markets, but also gas, to put political pressure on eastern europe. with this legislation i think we have a real weapon against this and it is important that we got it. it was a bit shameful that we had an uphill fight against germany, france, austria, the netherlands, a bit of belgium; western european governments not understanding why it is so important for eastern europe to have this solidarity. i am so proud that in this house this divide between western europe and eastern europe did not play a role, and that i and theresa griffin, we stood with eastern europe in fighting germany and france to get this legislation. the second thing we should be proud of is that this is the first piece of energy legislation where we go beyond our dilemma, which is everything only at one national level or everything only at eu level. this is the first piece of eu legislation in which regional cooperation along the pipelines has been enshrined and where member states, before considering national politics, have to sit together and share openly information about where they are in a crisis situation. this should also now be the basis of our electricity legislation: on security of supply, on markets, i would even say in the future, on renewable developments. we should do more at regional level. so i want to thank colleagues very much for this brilliant exercise of parliamentary pressure to get things done.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three facts: firstly, euro 5 and euro 6 cars have four to five times more nitrogen oxides behind the engine than euro 4 cars because they inject diesel more purely. and then those 1,000 or more nox would have to be very laboriously filtered out. the automotive industry knew that. she didn't want to do a big upgrade, and she's cheated 35 million times. we have 35 million euro 5 and euro 6 cars on european roads today. people die in the inner cities every day. second fact: software updates have been found fake by the judge in stuttgart, have been found fake by the ministry of the environment in germany. why do you think vw has to pay 20 billion in fines in the us? because the u.s. authorities had identified software updates as fakes from the very beginning. and what do you do as a commission? you accept that the kba and the german government believe that what the us authorities have declared to be fake and illegal is right, they don't mind that what vw did is legalized in germany. when mrs bieńkowska finally wrote the letter on 24 july, what happened? then mrs merkel called in brussels and mrs bieńkowska was pushed aside a little so that nothing would happen to mrs merkel before the elections. this game is so lame! this will not make the citizens of europe believe in europe.
mr president, when we speak to representatives of countries which unfortunately still tolerate the forced marriage of young girls, we are often given the following answer: 'this practice is deeply rooted in our culture and traditions'. this debate and the vote on your resolution should help to put an end to this deplorable situation which, unfortunately, still disregards the most basic human rights of young girls. we cannot, of course, make laws in countries which still tolerate such practices, but we can use the means available to influence their policies: in our contacts with their leaders, in the framework of the political dialogue with these countries, in the strengthening of the multilateral system, particularly at the united nations level, and in the framework of agreements between the european union and third countries. there is no point in putting a word in the preamble to a treaty if you cannot put two words in it. i would like to make it clear that we should take advantage of the future agreement with the acp countries, for example, to make the abolition of child and girl marriage a conditionality. you do not respect this principle in the istanbul convention, so you will not get any more help.
madam president, a european public prosecutor's office capable of tracking down and prosecuting fraudsters - at last! in 2013, i put the project on the table as commissioner for justice. commissioner jourová is finalising it today and it will come into force in 2020. and this is a major breakthrough. finally, our european budget will receive the european protection it deserves. gone are the days when crooks could easily embezzle european taxpayers' money, knowing full well that they would not be prosecuted, and gone is impunity. when criminals act internationally, our response must also be transnational and european. i am pleased that 20 member states have decided to move forward. enhanced cooperation is thus proving its worth and shows that the europe of pioneers can lead those member states which are still reluctant to protect taxpayers' money more effectively. the creation of the european public prosecutor is proof that europe can and must move forward with a vanguard, and this proof has already been provided by the divorce regulation and the proposal on succession. the european area of justice is slowly being established, and luxembourg, as the seat of the judicial institutions, will be honoured to welcome the new european prosecutors. europe is acting and must continue to do so, and i therefore wish for the future that the powers of the prosecutor be extended to cover organised crime and the fight against terrorism in order to better protect our citizens. the window of opportunity is open, madam commissioner, the treaties allow us to move forward, and it is up to us to do so.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. mr president, i have little sympathy for the council, which is cutting the budget for development aid by 90% in commitment appropriations and by 20 million in payment appropriations. the commission also accuses the member states of contributing too little to the trust fund for africa. in 2015, at the international conference on the financing of official development assistance, the european union, in line with the council conclusions of the same year, renewed its commitment to raise official development assistance to 0.7% by 2030 at the latest. this commitment is a promise in the air, contradicted by the facts. this promise is not made to those who make it, but to those who believe in it. this behaviour is unacceptable, especially since it is contrary to recent eu statements in the context of the european consensus for development or at european development days. it would be appropriate, mr president, to require member states which do not fulfil their commitments to come and explain themselves to the european parliament's committee on development.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european union has the highest standards of health and safety at work in the world, and we can be proud of that. this does not mean that we can rest comfortably on what we have already achieved. the world of work is constantly evolving, new technologies, new scientific findings, new studies show that substances that have been used for years without concern are carcinogenic and are costing thousands of lives. asbestos is the best known example of such a development. i therefore welcome and congratulate the commission for having complied with the calls for a revision of the directive. i do not want to go into detail on each of the subjects; that is all that has been done by the members. we must keep in mind that measures to protect the health of workers are investments and not just costs. investments that benefit workers and their health have a positive impact not only on the productivity of companies but also on society as a whole. of course, companies - especially small and medium-sized ones - will have to adapt to the new rules. the commission has therefore provided for reasonable transitional periods. the precautionary principle seems to me to be very important in this area and i also welcome the fact that, as some colleagues have already said, reproductive toxicants have been included in the compromise. i hope that this will be incorporated into the scope of the directive as soon as possible. finally, i would like to stress that, under pressure from parliament, medical supervision is considered necessary beyond the end of work and to protect the health of those concerned. once again, i would like to thank my colleagues for their swift work. we've had a proper caseworker here for a little over a year. i would like to congratulate the commission again, also for having established the next steps so far.
mr president, i will begin by saying that i have already heard more unpleasant speeches from our colleague mr salvini. he was kind enough to tell us today that he is now in favour of legal migration, which is better than being against any form of migration, and that he accepts the existence of women and children, at least, who are really fleeing war, poverty, threats, death and lack of prospects, and who need the protection that we have the right and the duty to give them. this is progress, for the lega nord, not bad! i must say, however, that we will probably continue to look at the alleged root causes of migration for a very long time to come, while we seem to be missing some essential aspects of the matter. with all the funds we have implemented and are currently implementing in africa, we have now raised, if all goes well, 5 billion which we hope will multiply to 40-45 billion by 2020, to be invested in the development of africa. china alone invested over 40 billion dollars in africa in 2016, and will, of course, continue to do so even more in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020. it is no coincidence that africans are looking at us with more skepticism than they are at china at the moment. it is not good for us and it is not good for our purposes with regard to migration to africa. we'll have to go over our copy.
mr president, i have the impression that the whole problem is rooted in the fact that each of our member states is engaged in a vain, but all the more unbridled, race to attract the headquarters of large multinational companies. each member state does them favours each member state. it is not as if the number of mcdonald's branches in luxembourg generates such profits that the company would then need to resort to tax havens to launder money. the number of its subsidiaries in germany or france or other large countries is much larger and, strangely enough, as a colleague said earlier, the tax authorities of the states concerned do not seem to have caught these companies in default in the past, before they transferred their funds to other countries or territories. of course, this bottom-up process in which we all participate, almost without exception, at the moment, is the basis of the problem we are facing, alongside the greed and avarice of some of the big ones, which have nothing to do with the reality of life, not even in the small european countries that are regularly pinned as alleged tax havens when there is nothing. true paradises, as mrs scott cato said, are often really paradises. they depend on large states, which have the power and authority to use them at will. three quarters of the funds that pass through the city of london every day are generated in the british crown dependencies, either in the caribbean or the channel. all this is part of the debate which we are only looking at at the surface, whereas we are trying to get to the bottom of things.
madam president, ms fajon has said that the european people’s party (the ppe) is insinuating that the rule of law in malta has collapsed after the assassination of daphne caruana galizia. the truth is, we insinuate that the rule of law collapsed a long time before that murder and that this murder is one of the consequences of the total collapse of the rule of law in malta, that it is one of the consequences of the privatisation of state institutions, the subjugation of institutions of state to the private interests of the highest actors of the state, and of one particular party that created the atmosphere, created the circumstances in which such a heinous crime could take place in the 21st century in the middle of the european union. the contempt in which the maltese government holds this house, by the way, has never been more visible than by the fact that mr maasikas has to defend malta in this debate. have we ever seen the hungarian prime minister – and everyone knows that i am not carrying him in my heart – refusing or cowing out from defending his country or a potential attack on his country in this house. we have never seen anything like that. we now see mr maasikas, who has nothing to do with the corrupt practices of the maltese government, having to stand up for something which is indefensible and unjustifiable. some of daphne’s last written words were: ‘there are crooks everywhere you look, the situation is desperate’. well, depending on where you looked, you always saw the same thing and that is prominent people from azerbaijan – very prominent people from azerbaijan – in the company of very prominent people from malta – virtually half the leadership of the labour party, be that the prime minister, be that the prime minister and his small party who travelled there unaccompanied and brought back i don’t know what, or be that mr farrugia, who is still the speaker of the parliament of malta and who has nothing better to do than regularly travel there and applaud them for the brilliant elections that they hold. this is what has rotted malta through – the fact that a country like azerbaijan could insinuate itself in the form of a bank called pilatus, in the heart of a european democracy, and from there reach out its tentacles to stifle democratic expression. this is what we are confronted with. this is why this murder needs to be investigated. and this is why no angle needs to be left untouched in this investigation. (applause)
mr president, i think maurice ponga agrees with me that the development of africa is first and foremost an african affair. the aim of a good eu-africa strategy is to respect the principle of being with africans, not to dominate them, but to accompany them. the aim of a good eu-africa strategy is to put a common front against resource plunder and, to this end, to help african states eradicate corruption, tax and cut the wings off predators. the point of a good strategy is to have a common understanding of the big challenges we have in common: climate, insecurity, terrorism and so on. the aim of a good eu-africa strategy is to negotiate a real pact between africa and the european union and to take our common views and positions to all international fora, to the wto, to the un and beyond. the key to the success of such an undertaking is the credibility of all the partners. in this respect, the european union, which is a strong partner, could do even better if it agreed to fulfil all its commitments towards its african partners, particularly with regard to its level of official development assistance.
mr president, i will hand the floor to mr elmar brok if he prefers, but otherwise i will relay it – i find it exceptionally funny, mr saryusz-wolski, that somebody should use the language that you have just used after having spent virtually your the whole political life serving the very system that you now condemn. it is a little strange, but oh well. what i wanted to say is that mr timmermans really encapsulated it all when he started, when he said: ‘i hope i can have a dialogue with the polish authorities’. but we are not having a dialogue with the polish authorities; we are not having a dialogue with the polish government either. it is again a bit like yesterday – poor mr matti maasikas who has to stand up for something which i am sure he would rather not have to stand up for. the polish government is just as absent as their loudspeaker in this house, who gave out a seven-minute statement about essentially not much and then left with most of his colleagues and spent the rest of the morning with the polish press – his friends, i suppose – outside of the plenary hall. this is the way in which this polish authority, this polish government, this polish majority, acts. sophia in ‘t veld was totally right when she explained that. it is apodictic; it is absolute; we are all wrong; we have no idea what is happening there; we get it all wrong and they are all right. the problem in poland is that they are trying to change the state and to model it so that generations to come will have no chance to change it back for the better. that is the thing that we have to be concerned about, because there are millions and millions of poles – probably half of them, more than half of them – that would still make up a pretty big member state who want a future in europe; who want a democratic future; who want a future in a free society; who want a future in a society where they are allowed to think, to speak, to demonstrate and to be what you are – not what god supposedly wants you to be. those poles we are standing up for, because they have chosen to be part of the european society, and that is why we care. they are not only sovereign poles; they are also sovereign europeans, and they want back their sovereignty over thought, over speech and over behaviour.
mr president, i would like to welcome ms bulc and mr šefčovič. i know that you are personally very much involved in bringing forward the modern logistics sector and the modern transport sector. mr šefčovič is fighting for batteries. our problem is that the commission as a whole, and especially mr juncker and his head of cabinet, have produced a very weak paper, a very weak proposal. what is the discussion in bonn? if we want to be at zero in 2050, we also need to do something in the transport sector. when you look at the emissions in the transport sector, you will see that while in the housing sector and the power sector we have been able to go down, in the transport sector there is nothing! why? because the commission and member states have established impunity for the car industry not only as regards diesel, but also as regards co2, for 20 years now. in 1996, ms merkel – then minister for the environment under helmut köhl – prevented europe from having binding legislation on co2 and cars. then we had ten lost years. the last decade they have tricked us, as my colleague before has said, by giving golden cars in the laps and much fewer golden cars on the road. now let’s look at the proposal from last week. the commission’s own documents show that if transport is to be on track, cars need to reduce by 60%. that is according to the commission’s own papers. on the table, only 30%! if we want to be at zero in 2050, given that the car has a 15-20 year lifetime, the dutch government is right when they say the last moment to allow a fossil car on the road will be in 2030. what has the commission proposed? the netherlands has a 100% electro mobility quota for 2030. the commission has a 30% quota, just to show you the level of ambition. in 2025, it will be 15%. vw is saying that we will have 22% of our sales in 2025. the commission is less ambitious than vw. then comes the big trick. given that the commission has only made a 15% quota, if 22% of the cars that vw sells in 2025 are electric cars then volkswagen can take the 7% as a credit to bring more of its gigantic polluting diesel cars onto the road. understand, we have been fooled by the german car industry and, in part, by the commission. therefore, colleagues, it will be our task to negotiate this upwards. i am quite optimistic. we have an alliance with a lot of governments who will not accept this unacceptable and weak document as proposed by the commission.
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, as the world's leading exporter of services, we want, we can and we must write solid rules of the game guaranteeing, first, access to foreign markets for our companies, second, concrete advantages for consumers and, third, respect for fundamental rights. europe has developed cutting-edge digital standards. they must be fully safeguarded and promoted in trade agreements. so yes to data protection, net neutrality, access to telecom networks and intellectual property rights. no to forced data localisation, spam, the overcharging of international calls and roaming, and the compulsory transfer of source codes. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's digital single market strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's digital single market strategy, including the implementation of the eu's digital single market strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's digital single market strategy and the implementation of the eu's digital single market strategy.
(ppe). – madam president, after 18 months of political denial, the uk has finally accepted the three divorce conditions and now everybody knows what brexit really means. brexiteers promised gbp 350 million a week to their citizens; instead, they have to pay billions of euro. they promised economic benefits; instead, the pound and british growth are at their lowest point. they promised sovereignty; instead, the government is at the mercy of the dup at home, and of trade partners abroad. they promised global britain; instead, they got a lonely britain. they promised to take back control; instead, they are spinning out of control. i am saddened that the british people have fallen victim to political crooks and that the result is a divided and weakened uk. fortunately, the european family is united after the brexit wake-up call and, fortunately, the citizens’ problems found a positive solution in the first part of these negotiations. thank you, michel barnier.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the eu demonstrated strong leadership in the negotiations that led to the adoption of the 2030 agenda and its 17 sustainable development goals in september 2015. we must continue to lead the implementation phase as well. after agreeing on what to do, we now have an obligation to do it at national as well as at the eu level. the joint adoption of the new european consensus last june is certainly a very important step, as it will guide both the eu and its member states for the next 12 to 15 years. the member states have been leading by example, notably through voluntary national reporting in the context of the united nations high-level political forum on sustainable development. however, more needs to be done in terms of implementation at the eu level across all policies – internal and external. the commission communication of 22 november 2016 was a step in that direction. however, the council, in its conclusions from 20 june 2017, urged the commission to elaborate by mid-2018 a comprehensive implementation strategy to reflect the 2030 agenda in all relevant eu policies. the council largely shares the views expressed by the european parliament in that regard in its own-initiative report that was adopted last july. the eu needs a clear vision of how all relevant eu policies will contribute to the realisation of the 2030 agenda in a comprehensive and holistic manner. at this stage, the council is certainly looking forward to receiving more specific sectoral implementation proposals from the commission. in this respect, the council adapted its working methods to be better able to monitor the implementation of sustainable development goals at eu level in a holistic manner. the council, under the estonian presidency, established a dedicated council working party that will deal with the agenda 2030. the mandate of this working party will be to ensure systematic, effective, participatory, transparent and integrated follow-up and review of the implementation of the sustainable development goals at eu level in order to track progress, assess achievements and ensure accountability. the working group starts its work in early 2018 and will be reporting to the general affairs council. also, in november the council welcomed the first implementation monitoring report on progress towards the sustainable development goals in the eu prepared recently by eurostat. even though this is still early days, the report provides useful insights in terms of trends, showing that our performance is on the right track with some goals, but less so on several others. however, there is a need for a fully-fledged analysis of gaps and a comprehensive eu implementation strategy to ensure that all policies are covered, both internal and external. this will allow the eu to remain a global leader in the implementation of the 2030 agenda.
member of the commission. – mr president, with the signing of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development on 25 september 2015, 193 countries from all regions of the world committed themselves to implementing the 17 sustainable development goals and 169 related targets to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity and peace. the 2030 agenda prescribes a regular follow—up and review of progress towards the sdgs as a crucial element to support accountability to citizens. governments have the primary responsibility for follow—up and review at national, regional and global levels. to follow up and review the goals and targets, the 2030 agenda foresees the development of a reference indicator framework for global monitoring, complemented by indicators at regional and national levels, which will be developed by the member states. the european union has its own monitoring process. the commission communication on ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’ of november 2016 announced detailed and regular monitoring of the sustainable development goals in an eu context. it also announced the development of a reference indicator framework for this purpose. on 20 november 2017, eurostat released the first monitoring report. this monitoring report is based on the european union sdg indicator set, which the commission developed in cooperation with a large number of partners and stakeholders, including the european union member states, council committees, academia, civil society and international organisations. the indicator set will be regularly reviewed to make sure that it includes the most relevant and highest-quality indicators and that it aligns with the un global indicators. the european sdg indicator set includes indicators which are relevant from an eu policy perspective and which are already available. they include detailed information on gender, age groups, regions, educational level, degree of urbanisation, income, and disability. fifty-six of the 100 european union sdg indicators are also part of the un set. eurostat’s monitoring report builds on eurostat’s long experience in monitoring sustainable development in the union. as a matter of fact, from 2005 until 2015, eurostat regularly monitored progress towards the objectives of the eu sustainable development strategy. the report finds that, over the last five years, the european union has made progress towards all sdgs. progress for some goals has been faster than for others and within the goals movement away from the sustainable development objectives also occurred in specific areas. the european union has made significant progress over the last five years towards the overall achievement of the goals concerning affordable and clean energy, responsible consumption and production, life on land, sustainable cities and communities and good health and well—being. but let us be clear about this progress. in this way that progress towards a given goal does not necessarily mean that the status of that goal is satisfactory for the european union. for example, in the case of terrestrial ecosystems, the indicators mostly show good progress, but this should not lead to the conclusion that ecosystems or biodiversity in the union are in good health. as an example, common bird species have been declining in the union since 1990 and only recently showed signs of slight recovery. we also have eight sdgs in which the european union has, over the last five years, made moderate progress. these concern quality education, partnership for the goals, industry innovation and infrastructure, gender equality, decent work and economic growth, no poverty, zero hunger and reduced inequalities. these results are visually presented on a newly created and dedicated section of eurostat’s website, which i invite you to consult. there you will find links to additional products, a short brochure, and a series of online articles in the style of wikipedia, which aim to reach the widest possible audience. to conclude, monitoring progress towards the implementation of the sdgs is essential to meet the expectations raised by the 2030 agenda. eurostat will continue to evaluate and improve the list of indicators and produce annual monitoring reports. next year, the commission will present a reflection paper ‘towards a sustainable europe by 2030’. it will be accompanied by a ‘distance to sdgs’ analysis to provide, in addition to the trends, an understanding of the distance we still need to cover in order to achieve the sustainable development goals.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the sustainable development goals are at the heart of the political debate today. it's about the survival of our planet. these objectives, adopted in 2015 by 193 countries, seem to be reduced to an essentially academic function for some of our member states. the implementation of these measures is slow to begin. this is not surprising, because it is not the first time that a big-time announcement has not been followed up with sufficient effect. this is particularly the case for official development assistance. the 0.7% of gdp target, announced four decades ago, is still only halfway there. the reason for this failure? it is the absence of a method that obliges member states to report on the objectives they have agreed to. the same causes produce the same effects, and that is why it is important to have a method for achieving the sustainable development goals now. to this end, it would be desirable to know the strategy of each member state. i also think it is essential to specify a time-frame so that we know who is doing what and when. in order to ensure that these efforts are not in vain, i believe that the establishment of a system of parliamentary control is essential. the system of parliamentary control and supervision should be in line with the prerogatives of both the national parliaments and the european parliament. member states with significant shortcomings in the achievement of the sustainable development goals should come before the european parliament to report on their policy action in this area. it is not enough to go to new york, to be generous in front of the united nations, to return to the capital and rely on the short memory of those to whom we have made very strong commitments. this is both internal and external, and when it comes to sustainable development, we are all developing countries, including those in the european union. we are all housed under the same banner and we all have the same accountability to our citizens.
