mr president, with all due respect to ms sargentini, yesterday and today within our groups we have been debating the votes on who will be president of parliament, and today we are still in the process of voting on who will be the vice—presidents, and then in the evening on the quaestors. in our groups, we always have a discussion in the evening before a vote on how the groups will vote. this is not only an important issue, but also a rather technical one, because certainly within the epp we have had no discussion within the group on this issue. we would normally have it on a wednesday evening – that is, this evening. i propose that we stick with the original agenda, we vote tomorrow as planned, and we discuss it properly, as it should be.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, digital data is an essential resource for economic growth, competitiveness, innovation, job creation and social progress in general. the eu needs to ensure that data flows across borders and sectors. this data should be accessible by most stakeholders in an optimal way. a coordinated european approach is essential for the development of the data economy. i think that it is very important that the commission has launched a public consultation and dialogue with stakeholders on these topics. this process will help identify future policy or legislative measures that will unleash europe’s data economy. the value of the eu data economy was estimated at eur 272 billion in 2015, or almost 2% of eu gdp. if the policy and legal framework conditions for the data economy are put in place in time, its value will increase to eur 643 billion by 2020, representing more than 3% of overall eu gdp. the general data protection regulation will be one single european set of rules, as opposed to 28 national laws today. the newly created one-stop shop mechanism will ensure that one data protection authority will be responsible for the supervision of cross-border data processing operations carried out by a company in the european union. to build the data economy the eu needs a policy framework that enables data to be used throughout the value chain for scientific, social and industrial purposes. the commission should launch a wide-ranging stakeholder dialogue on the issues of building a european data economy. the first step in this dialogue will be a public consultation. the issue of data access and liability should be tested in a real-life environment in the field of cooperative, connected and automated mobility. concerning to the free flow of data, the commission has to continue to work to fully implement the principle of the free flow of data within the eu. the commission has to continue also to monitor and gather evidence, and if necessary consider taking further initiatives on the free flow of data.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: if we think about it for a moment, for the last 10 or 15 years, our energy policy has been one of the main goals. and that has been to fight climate change by reducing co2 emissions. in fact, the whole of energy policy has been geared towards this objective. and i'm not saying that this goal was wrong. but now what the european commission has proposed - this package of eight bills - introduces what i believe is a long-needed addition to this end. we need to start thinking not just about climate change, but also about the competitiveness of our citizens and businesses and the cost of energy. and the way that we can simultaneously stick to our climate change goals and reduce costs to consumers, especially our industry, is by implementing a very basic principle that works absolutely everywhere in the economy, competition. by removing market restrictions, we will give the right signals to create more competition against or between energy producers in the member states. we need to remove the constraints - both physical and regulatory - for this competition to continue. competition is not possible in a situation where there are still extensive subsidies for both fossil fuels and renewable energy. so at the same time, we have to look at how we can sensibly reduce market-distorting subsidies for all players, all sectors, fostering competition, keeping, of course, in mind our climate goals, but thinking about how to lower costs for citizens and businesses to boost competitiveness.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, dear colleagues, dear georgian friends, i would like to say some words about the process of adoption of the visa-free regime with georgia. it was very ugly. the council’s idea to connect the visa-free regime between the eu and georgia and ukraine with the visa suspension mechanism was, in my opinion, a bad idea. as a result, an unexpected delay occurred and nobody could say when this process would be finished. some eu country leaders publicly declared that they were glad to see these eastern european countries on the way of european integration, but at the same time behind closed doors they put their feet on the brakes and started to blackmail the european parliament. in this way they tried to solve their internal political problems. colleagues, in politics as in a business company, reputation of reliable partners is a very valuable thing, and the reputation of the eu in this case, in my opinion, was seriously damaged. i would like to apologise to our georgian friends for this unpleasant experience. nevertheless, dear colleagues, now in this chamber among us is the speaker of the parliament of georgia, the best friend of the european parliament and europe, his excellency irakli kobakhidze. dear georgian friends, i hope that today’s decision will give impetus for the new achievements in cooperation between georgia and the european union. fulfilling all the criteria for adopting the free visa regime was not an easy task but the georgians have done a great job. it is a very important step on the path of the european integration of georgia. it is a great achievement of the georgian people, politicians, civil society, students and so on.
the blue card issue. - my dear colleague! thank you for accepting my blue card application! i'm really glad that you're not going to be sitting in this plenary hall anytime soon, because you're so eager to leave this office and fight for your country to leave the european union. but tell me, what are the migratory threats you were just talking about? do you know how many people live in georgia? did you really see that about three and a half million people are a threat to the european union if they go to riga for a beer or stay in a hotel in berlin? thank you.
madam president, from my point of view of the main task of sport is to propagate a healthy lifestyle among young people. sports make an important contribution to social values such as tolerance, solidarity, peace, respect for human rights, and understanding among nations and cultures. recent corruption scandals have tarnished the image of sport, raising questions about the need for structural reforms of sports governing bodies and organisations. we need a zero tolerance policy for corruption and other types of crime in sports. fighting corruption in sport requires transnational efforts and cooperation among all stakeholders, including public authorities, law enforcement agencies, the sport industry, athletes and supporters.
madam president, the adoption of children is a very important and sensitive task for our societies, and is especially so for latvia. it is a shame that a lot of children still live in special state institutions, not in their families. states should take all decisions in adoption matters with the best interests of the child in mind, and with respect for his or her fundamental rights, while always taking into account the specific circumstances of the particular case. the child should always be given the opportunity to be heard without pressure and express his or her view on the adoption process, taking into account his or her age. no decision on adoption should be taken before the biological parents have been heard. i am convinced that the interests of the children have to be taken in consideration as the only main criterion. i voted in favour, of course.
madam president. erasmus + is one of the most successful eu programmes. it is a major eu tool to support activities in the fields of education, training, youth and sport, giving the opportunity to more than 4 million europeans to study, train and volunteer in another country. at a time of particular crisis with regard to the fundamental values of the european union, the erasmus+ instrument can provide a fundamental opportunity to promote integration, understanding and solidarity among young people. it is very important because they will be the next generation of europeans. they will be active society members, decision makers, voters and parents. this programme is working well, but the european parliament has made some recommendations on how to improve its performance. in my point of view we should find more resources for this programme, for the next period until 2027. of course, i voted in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have a huge challenge in europe. on the one hand, we want the european economy to develop. at the same time, we need to reduce our co2 emissions. we know very well that very often these two goals are in conflict with each other, because of course, the more economic activity we have, because somewhere we're burning something more, and that comes down to the climate itself with co2 emissions. it's a solution that's been developed in the emissions trading system. we see that the system is not perfect. if it were perfect, we would not have to change it twice. and what happens when we change? we know that there are a lot of political compromises that may or may not be made in the interests of the climate and/or the economy. so, this goal is, what else could we do, both to make industry grow and to make the climate not bad? colleagues, i see only one long-term solution. next time i call on the commission, when we find again that the ets system is not doing what we want it to do, to seriously consider a carbon tax as a possible solution. moving away from the process to the finished product: a transparent, easy-to-use system. what is needed is less politics. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, mr borg, to refer to the deterioration of the situation in ukraine is quite an understatement. there is an escalation of putin’s war against ukraine: a war in europe, which has already claimed more than 10 000 human lives; a war to redraw european borders by force and to upend the european peace order. make no mistake, putin’s ambition is not only to control ukraine. his ambition is to make the eu and nato impotent, irrelevant and insolvent. the war against ukraine is a step towards this goal and a test for europe’s unity and transatlantic resolve. therefore, we have a vital interest in stopping putin before he moves on to other countries in europe. economic sanctions have so far been the european union’s only deterrent against his further aggression. to ease any of these sanctions for anything less than russia’s full compliance with its minsk commitments would be a self-inflicted defeat. without them, our policies would lose all credibility and efficiency. if russian aggression escalates we should prolong and further increase them.
thank you, madam chairman. we have emphasised in the debate today the escalation of hostilities in ukraine and not why minsk i and ii have failed so badly. in taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine, and further destabilised ukraine. and no wonder these contracts are very unpopular among ukrainians. only 9% of ukrainians support this deal. because let's not be naive if any eu country could choose minsk iii in the run-up to the elections, it would be even more favorable to russia and less favorable to the ukrainians and would even eliminate, for example, the provision for this border control in eastern ukraine, which would be implemented by the ukrainian government. because then it is clear that russia will lose the ability to supply the tanks that are currently in eastern ukraine in number more than the german, french and czech armies combined. the more we try to implement the minsk agreements, the more the putin administration will not accept them, because our position, the position of those member states involved in the creation of these agreements, their position will only worsen. and that's not good for any of us.
the blue card issue. thank you so much, mrs. toom, for accepting my blue card application! i listened carefully to these debates, and they are indeed of great importance both for this parliament and for the european union as a whole. however, my question would be: which of the problems or issues raised do you consider to be the most important and urgent for both parliament and the european union as a whole?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i am grateful to ms hübner for her excellent report and to those who took the floor to make interventions. everything you said points to the importance of having a robust and stable financial system, while at the same time ensuring that banks are able to play their role in lending to the wider economy to support growth and jobs. to address some points raised by ms berès on the capital markets union and the banking union, it must be very clearly stated that we see the capital markets union as a complement to the banking union and not as a replacement. we obviously do not expect capital markets to replace banks in their role of financing the real economy. indeed, those are complementary projects and need to be seen as such. i also touched upon completion of the banking union, including through the european deposit scheme and a common backstop for a single resolution fund. as always, we emphasise that risk sharing and risk reduction must go hand in hand, so we also need to drive forward our risk reduction agenda through our bank reform package and other initiatives which we presented in november of last year, but not limited to that. we count on your continued support in moving forward this important regulatory agenda.
rapporteur. – mr president, sometime before 2009 in one of the major provinces of canada, quebec, the idea of ceta was born. today is the day when we can decide how to go forward with this deal. i would say it is a judgment day, because since 2016 we have discussed in the european parliament – more than18 times in different large groups – what this trade deal really means for us. we have been taking into account most, if not all, of the concerns that have been raised by analysing the previous trade deals with other countries, and i think that we can say with great confidence that this trade deal, is in many ways, a golden standard for future trade deals in the world. i would also like to say that ceta is a litmus test for our european union policies. we are standing at the crossroads, and we can take one of two directions. the first direction is protectionism, provincialism, decline and the building of walls. do we really want it? i do not think so – at least, i do not want it. the second direction is openness to the world, it is leadership, it is effective decision making, it is growth, and finally, also, the bringing of wealth to our union and each and every nation and member state here on the european continent. of course, the ceta trade deal is not a cure, a medicine, for each and every disease. we must understand that. it is comprehensive, but it will not solve all the problems that our workers, small and medium enterprises and people are facing. it is not meant to do this, and this is why i would like to say to those who are not listening to the facts but following the alternative news and not trying to go into depths of the analysis of this trade deal: please do not bark up the wrong tree. try to find other solutions for other existing problems, but go forward with this deal. as regards ceta, it has two very important aspects for us included in this deal. one is the geopolitical aspect, another is the purely trade and economic aspect. as regards geopolitics are concerned, the canadian nation has always stood for the same values that we stand for here in europe. there is no other nation outside the european union so like us as the canadians. sometimes, i think they are even closer to us than some of our members from time to time (that was a bit of a joke). they have been sending their soldiers since the first world war to defend our freedoms and our liberties. they died in the second world war for our freedoms and liberties, and even now, when the european union is facing security challenges at its external borders, canadian soldiers are again on our sandy beaches in northern europe. thank you to canada for this. secondly, if we are speaking about the economy, there is a number of things that this trade deal will deliver. it will deliver trade in goods and decreased tariffs. it will deliver additional possibilities for services. it will give us the possibility to join procurement in canada, which has not happened before. geographic indications, a lot of geographic indications for many of our producers, and of course the investment part. so from that perspective, i would say that every country, just like my small country, latvia, will benefit from this. our products which are now sold in canada – latvian products, for instance, and also swedish or german or french products – will be between 8% and 12% cheaper after the trade deal is passed. it is a good thing. the world is watching us. the world is watching the european union and which direction we will take. will we take the direction of protectionism and closedness, or will we fight for liberal democratic values, for growth and for the new golden standards of international trade? it is a unique chance for the european union now to take again a leading position in the global economy and global politics, and in many ways the vote for ceta will decide this. never before has the world needed such a strong europe at this moment, and it needs guidelines for good trade. ceta is like a lighthouse for these guidelines, for many who are searching for wealth and trade. please do not switch off this light. vote for ceta.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of this house, it has indeed been a very long and interesting debate. we are here discussing a trade agreement. trade has made the european union the biggest economy of the world. it has benefited the prosperity and welfare of europeans. trade with other countries outside the european union has created millions of jobs, 31 million in the export sectors and many, many millions in the import sectors. countries are queuing up to make trade agreements with us but they are, of course, looking very carefully at what is going to happen today, whether we are a reliable partner or not. trade globally has lifted millions and millions of people out of poverty, so trade is a good thing, but of course trade needs to be regulated in trade agreements and that is what we are discussing here today. this is not business as usual; this is a new type of trade agreement. it has economic advantages: we are taking away tariffs, we are increasing market access, we have achieved the recognition of many important geographical indications, we are taking away red tape and this is beneficial. after all, most small and medium-sized companies – 80% of the 70 000 companies who today export to canada are smes – have smaller margins than the big companies because the latter can always manage. smes benefit from lower tariffs, from increased market access, from less red tape. we are taking away tariffs, for instance on textiles of 18%, on shoes of up to 18%, on machinery of 9%. these are not small sums for small companies, and many of them are also involved in exporting geographical indications. we know that trade works. the trade agreement with south korea has increased exports by impressive figures and created many jobs. this is also an agreement about values, about the right of governments to regulate, about maintaining our high standards, about labour rights, about environmental rights, about sustainable development, about reforming the old isds system – because it was not invented in ceta, it has existed since 1959, it was invented in germany. all countries, except ireland, have isds clauses. we have made them more democratic, more transparent and introduced a more ethical system. you, here in the european parliament, have been very active in that transformation. (the president interrupted the speaker to call for less noise in the house) j’allais juste répondre aux collègues français qui ont exprimé leurs inquiétudes par rapport au secteur bovin. j’ai discuté avec le commissaire hogan et m. le président juncker, et nous allons vous adresser une lettre pour répondre plus en détail à vos questions. je peux vous affirmer qu’en ce qui concerne l’accord avec le canada, celui-ci a été bien conçu, en tenant compte de la sensibilité de ce secteur. je reste convaincue que les importations n’auront pas un effet dramatique sur le secteur. les services de la commission assureront le suivi régulier des importations en question, y compris le taux de remplissage des contingents, en utilisant tous les instruments dont nous disposons afin d’être en mesure de réagir avec efficacité et rapidité en cas de distorsion. vous aurez plus de détails dans une lettre à la fin de cette semaine. actually, honourable members of this house, for years many of you have been calling for trade agreements which include sustainable development, human rights, labour rights, environment, climate, animal rights. all this is in this unique agreement, but it does not include anything which forces any municipality, country or region to implement privatisation. it will not lower standards, and it will not deprive the governments of their right to regulate in the interests of their citizens. things that are forbidden on the european market today will remain forbidden, and the joint committee will not change anything in our legislation. that is for the eu institutions, including you, to do. we are making this agreement with canada, and i would like to salute the presence of the minister of international trade, mr champagne, who is in the tribune here today. canada is a democratic country which shares so many of our values, which is committed to the rule of law, to human rights, and which plays an important international role in defending the multilateral system. they have a strong public sector and they are committed to working with us to shape globalisation. (interruption by the president)
member of the commission. – madam president, canada is committed, in the framework of ceta and of our partnership agreement, to working with us on all the issues that you have mentioned, shaping globalisation to set strong international rules, faithfully respecting the mandate given to us in the commission by the member states and expressed in the resolution of this parliament. twenty-eight governments have signed this agreement, and it has been done in transparency. the ceta texts have been public since september 2014. the old investment court system (ics) reform has been public for a year. the original version has been online for two and a half years. there have been 12 meetings on this with the european parliament, nine meetings with the committee on international trade, three workshops, two ep delegations, and i could go on. it has not been negotiated in secret. honourable members will be involved in the implementation of all this, and we will work with you in order to make sure that we reform and look at how we can become better in the implementation of the sustainable development chapter. i do respect – and that is perfectly normal – that there are different views on this. you can be in favour and you can be against. (the president interrupted the speaker to call for less noise in the house)i respect that there will be people voting in favour and against, but calling a trade agreement with canada a coup d’état is, frankly, going too far. (applause)so, voting in a few minutes on the two agreements we have in front of us will enable us to take a great economic and geopolitical opportunity, deepening economic relations, affirming our social and environmental protection, showing that trade and values can go hand—in—hand, and strengthening a shared partnership. i hope that you will vote in favour of these two agreements that will send a strong signal to our friends in canada, and also to the rest of the world. (applause)
rapporteur. – madam president, i will not repeat all those arguments in favour of trade agreements between the european union and canada because it was very well argued by all the commission recently. (the president called for quiet in the house)i would like very much to thank all those shadow rapporteurs like mr moisă, ms schaake, david martin and others, who contributed so that this trade agreement here in parliament is of such a high quality. thank you to all of you. i would also like to agree with speakers such as alexander graf lambsdorff and others who noted that, once more, the far right and the far left of this house are united against everything that is good for the european union. (applause from certain quarters)if anybody is taking away jobs, if anybody is taking away the wealth of the people of europe, if anybody is loosening the foundations of european nation states, then turn to these radicals on both sides. i believe that we will vote today correctly to the benefit of the european union. i would also like to say that already next week, we will have the first national parliament – that of my country, latvia – that will ratify this agreement, and the other countries will be able to follow. those who want to listen to facts and not to be ‘trumped’ by alternative arguments to the right and left, should rather listen to what kind of benefits this will bring after it comes into force provisionally. i believe that this vote is the right vote for our member states and for the european union as a whole. let’s go forward. (applause)
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, yana toom, for the very good report and acceptable proposals. we can see the disproportion in development between the economic and social dimension of the european union. a big part of the social agenda was left to national states and very often these national states failed to provide adequate social protection for their citizens. from the other side, the european union developed free movement of people inside the eu and the result of this imbalance is that many citizens move to other eu states with higher salaries and higher social protection. in the last 25 years, my country, latvia, has lost more than 35% of its population, partly because of low birth rates, but mainly because of migration to other eu countries. thus places have been created in the eu where population density is very low. the economy cannot develop because of the declining number of workers, taxpayers and customers, the remaining population becomes older, and in these circumstances it is very hard to maintain and develop infrastructure and attract investment. this means the lack of prospects will push more young people to leave the country. colleagues, we cannot move ahead without a common social policy. we have to break this taboo.
mr president, after the terrorist attacks in the united states of america, the european council stated at its extraordinary meeting in september 2001 that terrorism is a real challenge to the world and to europe, and that the fight against terrorism would be a priority objective of the european union. the council decided to increase cooperation between europol, eurojust, the eu intelligence services and police forces, and adopted some decisions. although the situation in the eu has changed since that time, the current legal framework at european union level for the exchange of information and intelligence is still mostly subject to pre—lisbon instruments. the eu treaties enable the adoption of legal acts amending or replacing the acts of the union in the fields of police cooperation and cooperation in criminal matters which were adopted before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. after numerous terrorist attacks in europe, the european council promised to make some changes and to improve the exchange of information to address the current security challenges facing the eu. so we need change to strengthen the legal framework for the exchange of law enforcement and intelligence information at european union level and we need parliament’s participation in this process.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the commission is fighting very strongly, in some cases, against keeping the rule of law in certain member states. it is not always the case but it reminds me of a point famously made by george orwell about equality: i do not want to see it here. i think we all understand that there could be only three reasons why the commission put the infringement procedure on hold. initially, you said, commissioner, that it would be better to negotiate with the german government before the measure became law; now, when it has become law, you are waiting to think what to do. i think there is a contradiction in that statement. other possible reasons could be that the commission made legal mistakes when it started infringement proceedings – and if that is not the case, i would like more information about the changes – or that the german government has made enough political statements to remove discrimination against car owners from other countries and drivers of environment-friendly cars? if there is some other reason, then we need to understand what that reason is.
mr president, this week we had a serious debate in the european parliament about the future of europe. we discussed not only how to develop the european union but also this issue: is there a future for the european union? it is rather symbolic that this question has become topical after 60 years of existence of the common european project. the european union now is a big building under construction. the construction work is going very slowly. the inhabitants are not satisfied because the living conditions in an uncompleted building are not good. some of them are trying to find a simple solution to stop the construction of the common building: they invite us to return to having separate national states. in my point of view, we cannot return to the past and national states only. we have to complete our building, and only then will we receive the full positive effect of it. one of the main elements of this european building is common social policy. we need not only a common market, the free movement of capital and the workforce, but also the robust basis of common social standards in the eu.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur mady delvaux for her excellent report. we in the european parliament have started a very important discussion, a discussion of the future of mankind. robots will play a significant role in our future life, and we have to start to think about the important elements of this new reality. a central part of this report is the issue of liability. the civil liability for damage caused by robots is a crucial issue which needs to be analysed and addressed at union level as soon as it possible. the commission has to carry out an impact assessment for a compulsory insurance scheme which includes the possibility of giving the legal status of an electronic personality to robots, in order to facilitate compensation for victims when human responsibility cannot be fully attributed. it is vitally important for the legislature to consider the legal and ethical implications and effects without stifling innovation, and of course i voted in favour.
mr president, we can see that the epidemic of military spending is spreading across western countries. according to the stockholm international peace research institute, the world’s military spending may reach usd 1.7 trillion. more than half of this money is in nato countries’ military budgets: usd 980 billion. but for some politicians this is not enough. us president donald trump made an announcement about increasing the military budget by usd 54 billion. chancellor merkel said recently that germany will raise defence spending to 2% of gdp; some other european countries are going to do the same. i would ask my colleagues whether they really believe that spending 20 times more than a potential adversary is not enough for defence. i doubt it. this is a neat trick whereby some lobbyists want to redistribute budget money from social and development objectives to the military.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. the economy of the soviet union was very inefficient. the industry absolutely polluting couldn't breathe, black smoke but in one area, ironically, she was effective. it was directly in the consumer's hands, because there was no goods for the consumer to buy. there was no waste either, just mostly paper and glass. today -- and also, let's say, the countries of the former soviet union -- we have a very wide range of consumers. we have cell phones, we have plastic water bottles, we have plastic that protects food, that she lasts, and so on. all of this alone creates a mountain of waste that never existed before. and then all of these raw materials that make these mountains, we have to import from elsewhere. so, of course, it is right to move toward a more sensible management of our waste, to reuse as much as we can. we don't want to go back to a time when consumers had no choice, but we still have to think about this huge mountain of imported waste that we have to get rid of.
the president! if we think that these future scenarios have given new impetus to the vision of the future of the european union and given citizens a huge sense of confidence in the future and neighbours a fear that the european union will be the number one global player, then we politicians are wrong. imagine the base scenario chosen by the president of the european commission for a 'multi-speed europe' - how many different cores the european union can form! the founding fathers plus spain, the nordic countries and the baltic, possibly the balkan countries, visegrad, no doubt. and what will determine the formation of these blocks? the formation of these blocs will be determined by national geopolitical interests, which in turn can divide the existing european union, even its basic element: the single market. the speeds. a great example is cycling. if a platoon or a whole group is traveling together and working, taking turns to keep pace, it will catch and surprise any small group that is left behind. however, if the peloton is cut into pieces, the result is unclear and the overall speed is much slower.
mr president, this resolution will give a glimmer of hope to the hundreds of ukrainian citizens who are being illegally detained and held hostage by russia. it should remind putin that no—one is forgotten and nothing is forgotten. russia’s war against ukraine is not forgotten. the illegal annexation of crimea is not forgotten. the fate of innocent victims is not forgotten. there should be no normalisation of any relations with russia without the release of these political prisoners. let us make this clear to putin and his political and business partners in europe. it is very important that russia should be legally defined as an occupying power under the geneva convention on the protection of civilians in occupied territories. i strongly believe that russian leaders should be held accountable for gross and systematic violations of human rights in occupied territories.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have had two major objectives in europe for many years. we have climate goals to reduce co2 emissions, we have environmental goals to ensure good air quality. in the transport sector, this is crowned by the fact that there has been a policy for many years to support the spread of diesel engines in europe. in europe, between passenger cars, or the other major economies in the world, we have almost half as many diesel cars in one country as in the other. this is because it was found that not only is the diesel engine beneficial in terms of co2 emissions, but that, with proper regulation, harmful emissions (which are harmful to the environment, say, to human respiratory tracts, the so-called tails) can also be regulated. and so we also put into law that when we develop diesel engines, we have to make sure that the nox is dumped into the ground. what really happened? what actually happened is that diesel was developed, but virtually all the car companies that sell diesel engines have been lying to us as legislators, lying to us as consumers for years about how much of their emissions are air pollution or nox emissions. the result is this commission. the result is the scandal that it is. but how is that possible? this is possible because laws are adopted at european level, but enforced or enforced at member state level. and there's a big, big gap in europe between the lawmakers and the law enforcement. of course, we're changing the law. of course, now there's going to be a new testing methodology that involves not just lab tests, but also the waste as it actually is on the road. but the lesson here for all of us is that when we're pursuing a goal, in this case a climate goal, we have to be very careful about what the potential impacts are, like the impact on air quality.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, ‘divorce’, ‘sadness’, ‘electricity and heating bills’, ‘foolishness’, ‘disruption of transport links’, etc. ‘we will only speak about the future relationships when we settle on accounts’. ‘we are the champions, but on the other side are the losers’. ‘we will not leave them any single cherry of the cake’. that is a summary of the statements made both in the chamber today and also in the media. i would like to ask colleagues to calm down. does anybody believe that in these negotiations there will be winners when it comes to citizens’ rights issues? indeed, how successful can we call an arrangement where part of the success is achieved by discriminating against the citizens of another eu nation, or take businesses that are the backbone of economies? do we really want to extend uncertainties for the next five or so years? it is possible within the next two years to settle the past accounts and work on the comprehensive framework for the future relationships. this allows for it, business will wait for it, and in the end the european people want it. so good luck to you in the negotiations.
mr president, eu external policy should be honest. if you want to get the result we need clear understanding on what the european union wants. how can we see the situation when eu actions contradict the eu declarations? the official eu position is that we should help people who need protection, according to the geneva convention. but on the other hand, the european commission and eu member states make deals with president erdoğan, african strongmen and libyan warlords. the main aim of this deal is to prevent not only illegal economic migration, but also a real refugee movement to the european union. the aid for poor african states becomes more and more connected with the prevention of migration. if eu countries prefer to adopt trump’s approach we should say this openly and not pretend to be angels that do not understand why these poor people do not come to us. if we adhere to formally declared principles we should show now real solidarity on the issue of development aid and refugee policy. i voted in favour.
chairman! you guys! i ask the question: "who among us can be completely himself?" there are people who live in, say, rural areas who may be growing their own food, growing their own food. they say, "well, i can do it myself!" but then the question arises: what did you wear? do you shop? no, it's also theoretically possible that someone else in europe is doing all their own laundry. but sooner or later, that person will have to buy either a shoe, a bow, a bow, or something else. he'll be partially dependent on others. and we call this system trade. and our great advantage in europe, and the great advantage of the european union, is that this trade is between 500 million people, without internal borders, without tariffs, without customs duties, without any problems. this is the greatest advantage of the european union for most of our citizens. but there is one area that absolutely stands out. it's when we go with these devices that almost everyone, even schoolchildren today, have in their pockets -- with cell phones -- outside of our borders. suddenly, it's like the single market doesn't exist anymore. we pay much, much more. now this bill, which we are voting on tomorrow, will put an end to the wholesale price system and will do away with the so-called 'hosting' which, by distorting the single market, makes us pay much more abroad. and we will be able to use our phones abroad and pay as we do at home, by developing the internal single market. we need a common european market, including a digital market. thank you. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)))
answer to the blue card question. that's the point of this legislation we're putting wholesale price caps in this legislation, which means that if there are operators who want to charge homeowners more, they will have no such excuse. the other is competition. i do not know how it is in your member state, but in mine there is very fierce competition. if one of our operators suddenly raises its prices, the other operators will take its customers and lower their prices. latvia itself currently has one of the most efficient, i.e. lowest, tariffs in europe, and it already offers one price in europe, and it is lower than in most countries even in the interior.
mr president, i don't understand why we still use such atavism as visa regime for our european neighbours. what is the reason of keeping it? we have a lot of security lists of terror suspects, criminals and other persons that are for any reason denied entry to the eu. border guards have access to these databases, and any people from these lists will not be allowed to cross the border. other countries’ citizens who wanted to travel to the eu without visas are required to have very well-protected biometric passports, which many of the european union states’ citizens do not have. individuals may be asked to show documents proving purpose and conditions of stay; for example, tickets for further journeys and return tickets, reservation of accommodation and invitation letter, as well as evidence of sufficient means of subsistence. in case of doubt, the person could be not allowed to enter the eu. now we have a special suspension mechanism, when the commission can pause a visa-free regime for a concrete country if some migration criminal or some other concerns will appear. what additional options to this list of protection measures give with the regime? at the same time, millions of migrants come through the mediterranean without any visas or documents from very problematic from the security point of view regions, but we are still afraid to grant a visa-free regime for such states as georgia recently, ukraine or belarus in the future. it reminds us of a door with twenty locks, but there is still a huge gap in the wall nearby.
mr president, parliament’s rules of procedure give the possibility to react to urgent cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the initial idea was to express parliament’s concern about the detention of some activists during and before the march demonstration in belarus. however, we can see in the resolution that there are issues that cannot be termed very urgent. for example, the issue of the nuclear power plant in astravets, the demand for the abolition of the death penalty, the recommendation to change tax legislation, the issue about studying in the eu and speeding up the visa and scholarship application process, electoral reform and other issues which cannot be described as urgent. i would like to remind you that four months ago, a non-urgent resolution with the same title on the situation in belarus, in which the same issues were mentioned, was adopted. i urge you in the future not to create a spam effect, but concentrate more on urgent topics and do not reduce the power of urgent resolutions.
mr president, in the middle ages each feudal lord could block the road and start to take money from travellers for travelling on the road. we can see some feudal features in the mobile network market in the 21st century in the european union. important steps were taken by the commission and parliament to change the situation and abolish roaming charges in the eu, but the eu mobile network market remains fragmented. after the abolition of roaming charges, the next challenge could be that some big companies are tempted to take more money for a wholesale roaming charge. if we do not limit their wishes, this could lead to an increase in charges to consumers. the commission and parliament propose to establish the maximum level of wholesale roaming charges telecom operators can charge each other for calls, text messages and data from 15 june this year, and i am in favour of this decision.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my group is of the opinion that the commission is acting rather faintheartedly in coming up with initiatives on social affairs. you are just looking back at the possible reaction of the council, and the social pillar that commissioner dombrovskis presented today proves, to my regret, this discouraging approach once again. there is almost nothing in this document that we could mention as a big step towards social europe, which is really needed now. in the committee on employment and social affairs we are working now on the own-initiative report on minimum income and we will still insist that this fundamental right is to be guaranteed by an eu-level directive. where the work-life balance initiative is concerned, there are of course very many positive headlines. then there is paternity leave, five days per year for carers’ leave, four months non-transferable parental leave, and we are very happy that the commission has finally put forward our proposals in the work-life balance report approved by parliament last september. we have been fighting for them for a very long time. however, in order to convince european union citizens that the commission takes the need to enforce social rights seriously, in our opinion you have to come up with far more ambitions proposals.
for the ecr group - madam president, i have to go. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. european conservatives and reformists have always been about a truly single market in the european union without protectionism, often covered by magic words like social dumping or referring to unsubstantiated and untested abuses by market players that cause problems. as we know, very heavy laws have also been adopted in several member states which segment, and are already fragmenting, these freight transport markets in road transport. also, as the commissioner just mentioned, the commissioner's view is that these penalties are disproportionate to how it could work in a logical way. we should remember that the european union has about 4000 km in the east-west direction and almost as much, slightly less in the north-south direction. it is a vast area where road transport is the dominant mode of transport. we must be very responsible in working with this mobility package, because we can create very significant economic and social costs in this sector and in general in the transport of goods within the european union. as for the resolution which parliament will adopt tomorrow and which we are debating today, i would like to say that i am rather sceptical because it is more about social issues than about the economy, because it rejects liberalisation, because it does not actually touch on cabotage, because it does not really approve of the violations of the tachograph, as i said, and because it has finally reintroduced the principle of setting up a new agency without knowing whether it will succeed, following the english-speaking principle 'oops, we have a problem'. let's make a new agency. and the majority of european conservatives and reformists do not support this resolution because it is a path to protectionism and therefore we think that sending a message to the european commission shortly before the document, the adoption of this package by the college is not the right course of action.
in writing. – the trade agreement between the eu and korea is the first of the ‘new generation’ of the eu’s ftas – a good example for the upcoming agreement. it entered into force in 2015 and has already successfully boosted eu-korea trade exchanges. for the eu, exports increased by 47% and turned the eur 7.6 bn eu trade deficit into a eur 2.5 bn surplus. on the occasion of the 5th anniversary of the fta, the epp group shares not only the positive impacts of the fta, but also acknowledges that the trade and sustainable development chapter of the agreement does not fully meet expectations in line with eu values in terms of the trade policy. it is important to respect the international labour rights convention and to further address a number of issues in the field of technical barriers in trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, intellectual property rights and rules of origin as well as newly created non-tariff barriers for european car manufacturers. it is also crucial to raise awareness among smes regarding the opportunities that the agreement has created. we support further deepening of trade and investment relations between the eu and korea.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am here, of course, as you realise, on behalf of high representative mogherini, but also on behalf of ms mogherini and myself i wish to welcome the opportunity to contribute to this joint debate on the european union-norway agreement. i am pleased to share with you our views on the agreement itself between the european union, iceland, liechtenstein and norway on the eea financial mechanism 2014-2021 and the increase of norwegian duties on agricultural products, which has been mentioned by both speakers. the financial mechanisms have played an important role in reducing social and economic disparities in the european economic area since the entry into force of the eea agreement in 1994. in addition, as of 2004, norway has set up a complementary bilateral financial mechanism as well. but i would like to acknowledge the positive recommendation of the rapporteur, mr borrelli, to the plenary, in order to give its consent to the conclusion of the relevant agreements and protocols. in view of the continued need to alleviate economic and social disparities within the eea, in particular after the 2008-2009 financial crisis, the eeas and the commission received an ambitious negotiating mandate in january 2014 not only to renew the eea-norway grants, but to substantially increase them. the eea and norway financial mechanism agreements were signed on 3 may 2016 and have been provisionally applied as of july and august of 2016. these grants will provide a financial contribution by the eea efta states of eur 2.8 billion for a seven-year period 2014 to 2021, which is an increase of 11.2%. this includes a special allocation of eur 100 million for promoting regional cooperation in order to fight youth unemployment. the european union cohesion key will be used for the distribution of the financial allocations of both eea and norway grants. the commission will have a stronger role in strategic planning by promoting complementarity and synergies with eu cohesion policy. the agreements on the eea and norway grants have been complemented by two other separate bilateral agreements with norway and iceland. their aim is to renew existing preferential trade access to eu markets for their fish and fishery products. these concessions were in place in the period 2009-2014 and have now been renewed with a modest improvement in trade access. furthermore, norway has agreed to continue allowing for free transit of fish and fishery products landed in norway from vessels flying the flag of a member state of the european union. the outcome of these negotiations and the provisional applications of these agreements were commended by all member states, notably in the december 2016 council conclusions on the extended single market. the successful outcome of these negotiations would not have been possible without the tireless political support and interest by the members of this house. you have regularly used the joint eea norway and iceland parliamentary committees to call for an immediate and successful conclusion of these negotiations. iceland, liechtenstein and norway are part of our european continent and we share the same space, but also the same principled interest: to make growth in europe more inclusive and sustainable. we have a responsibility to work together with our neighbours, strengthening a spirit of european solidarity and cooperation beyond the borders of our union. so i want to thank you members for raising the issue of the increase of norwegian duties on agricultural products, and for the very keen interest which this house has shown in it, as evidenced by the resolution that has been adopted. in order to reflect your concerns, i want to assure you and reassure you that the commission and the eeas have done all they can to address the situation following the changes in norwegian duties on certain cheeses, on lamb and beef products, from 1 january 2013. the issue has been raised at a number of high-level meetings, including at the highest political level. in fact, in 2015 the commission requested the norwegian authorities to include this issue in the eu-norway agricultural trade liberalisation negotiations. these negotiations were concluded just five weeks ago, on 5 april 2017. under the negotiated agreement, the norwegian authorities will grant the european union tariff-free quotas to compensate for the effects of the duty switch. the commission is convinced that the deal we reached is beneficial to the european union and that norway provided sufficient compensation for the effects of the duty switch. the exact size of the compensation was detailed in the information paper that was sent to you, mr lange, and your committee at the beginning of april. the agreement will formally be submitted to the european parliament for your consent at a later stage, which i hope can be forthcoming. with that consent, the council can then formally conclude the negotiations (it cannot do so before that) in order to allow the agreement to come into force. as with norway, another additional protocol was negotiated for fisheries originating in iceland. both eea partners have made conditional their contribution of funds to the last three eea financial mechanisms, upon obtaining temporary fish trade concessions. no other trade concessions or considerations, such as the improved market access for agricultural products or for the solving of the pending trade irritants, have to date been linked with the financial mechanism negotiations. thank you for attention and i hope that this information is useful to you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i think that this discourse and discussion today, at 10 o’clock in the evening, could very well have been spared if cooperation between parliament and the commission were better. i really very much and sincerely hope that what is happening now, regarding the agreement on the european economic area (eea) and the discussion between the commission and this parliament, is not a pattern of passivity on the part of the commission, firstly in defending the interests of european nations and the european union and, secondly, in having a respectful attitude towards this parliament. these are two major complaints from the european people’s party (ppe). we were not satisfied, commissioner, with your proposal, or the fact that you have already been going on with this agreement without prior consultation with us. you are putting us in the position, in the current political circumstances, where we are speaking about the irrelevance of parliament and, at the same time, you are trying to drive us into a discussion where you are presenting – this evening too – everything that has already been mentioned in the explanatory statement. we already knew all that! secondly, i think the pattern that we see here can also be seen in the passivity of the commission regarding activities in the arctic area and in the commission office responsible for international affairs. we also see that in cases where we need to defend, for instance, our fishermen, who have already been arrested for half a year in norwegian ports. so in this regard, we really would like to see in future a much more proactive and cooperative role from the commission side, otherwise it will be very difficult for us to cooperate. it has nothing to do with norway, in this case. it is to do with you not responding in a timely fashion, and not defending in a timely fashion the interests which we are asking you to defend.
madam president, eu cohesion policy mainly consist of a mix of grants and financial instruments. some latvian officials support the replacement of grants with loans in the future. the arguments are that it is more difficult to receive grants than loans, because you have to persuade the bank to give you the loan to realise the project for this money, check the proper realisation of the project and only after that do you receive the grant. this algorithm makes it difficult for businesses. sometimes projects do not, at the beginning, have a profitable future but receiving the grant is a final aim of the project. on the other side, grants have a lot of positive features, each of these instruments have their strengths and weaknesses, both grants and financial instruments have their specific roles in cohesion policy. financial instruments perform better in well-developed regions and metropolitan areas while grants address regional structural issues in outermost regions and regions with a high unemployment rate. i voted in favour.
madam president, it is positive that the eu has made an attempt to adopt and implement a new strategy to resolve the syrian crisis. frankly speaking, europeans had begun to lose faith in the european union as a serious participant in the settlement of the syrian conflict. according to recent opinion polls in latvia, only 10% of the latvian population think that eu action to resolve the syrian conflict is effective. high representative federica mogherini’s speech two days ago, in this house, gave me hope that the eu position had become more realistic and more effective. diplomacy cannot be based on the allegation that virtually all parties to the conflict, except us, are criminals and we will not speak with them! this is not diplomacy, this is stupidity. such a position leads to isolation and offers no hope to the syrian people. i support federica mogherini’s assertion that the main eu instruments are humanitarian aid and money for reconstruction, negotiation, cooperation and diplomacy.
madam president, we are concentrating too much on the issue that not all member states have fulfilled their commitments with regard to the relocation of 160 000 refugees, and we are failing to pay attention to what happens with these people after relocation. according to the integration foundation in latvia, from april 2016 to april 2017, 308 refugees out of 487 left latvia. latvia has rather good results on relocation, our government does not loudly oppose relocation, as hungary, poland and slovakia do, but latvian legislators have adopted a very small and poor social package for refugees and have imposed severe language restrictions that do not allow these people to work, even casually. colleagues, i see no practical necessity for formal relocation if the people concerned will not live in this country.
mr president, many in western europe were surprised to see the political events in hungary and poland when nationalist political forces came to power and started to attack the european project. this contradicts memories of huge demonstrations of people in eastern europe in the 1980s, who were protesting against the old undemocratic power and demanding freedom and democracy. dear western european colleagues, amongst those people who took part in those demonstrations there were not only democrats, but also many nationalists who were dissatisfied with the old power. the aim was not to establish a democratic society, but to clear the way to power. they killed the dragon because they wanted themselves to become a dragon, but not because they wanted democratic challenges. in two days’ time in my country, latvia, there will be local elections to which 14% of the population with the status of latvian aliens will not be admitted. for a quarter of a century, these people were not entitled to participate in any elections. it is happening in an eu country, and many of you do not want to see this inconvenient reality. why, colleagues? because it contradicts your perception of success. wake up, colleagues, and see the reality. you have blindly supported nationalists and now you are getting the results, because the boomerangs are returning.
madam president, i was in favour because 5g will be the next key building block of our future society. the commission’s action plan, aimed at making the eu a world leader in the deployment of standardised 5g networks from 2020-25, is rather ambitious. our task is to ensure that this ambitious plan will be fulfilled. to reach that aim the commission, the member states and the european parliament should coherently fulfil their parts of the common task. the commission should ensure long-term financing for the 5g action plan and network modernisation; member states should implement the 5g action plan in regions and cities, and implement measures for a high common level of security of network and information systems across the union. we should step up efforts on standardisation and adopt effective measures to fight piracy. the direction is right, ambitions are high, so we should go forward and not repeat previous mistakes.
madam president, as written in the annotation, the aim of this legislative proposal is to increase the existing trade flows and to foster bilateral trade and economic cooperation between ukraine and the eu. but in the same document it is written that the european union will see a loss of customs revenue corresponding to less than eur 50 million annually with a very limited impact on the eu’s own resources. limited impact means that, in reality, this proposal is empty. it is the lowest possible result. nevertheless, the committee on international trade (inta), based on trade suggested, made additional cuts for certain product groups, such as wheat, maize and processed tomatoes. we can compare it with a situation where someone presents a gift to his friends in a very big, beautiful box, but inside there is a very small piece of candy at the bottom. such a gift can be perceived only as mockery.
madam president, resilience is a very important factor to make the external actions of the eu effective. there are a lot of challenges along this way, among them i would like to stress two factors: bureaucracy and political blindness. bureaucracy makes our external actions slow, inflexible and rigid. political blindness we can see very often here, even in this house. a lot of politicians live in a virtual world of their illusions, emotions, local interests and ideologies – they do not want to see the cultural and historical background of concrete countries. they put in place red lines, limitations and labels – very easy. but sometimes, after they have lost interest, these restrictions remain. this makes the job of the professionals that work with fragile states on the ground very difficult, and narrows the number of possibilities and instruments of the eu’s external action service. so we should not only give recommendations to others, but also start with a critical view of our own political participation.
for the ecr group - the president! if i were to read the title of today's debate, my time would be up, and it is unlikely that citizens would be drawn closer to the values of the european union by seeing such a title. what the citizen wants to see in poland, hungary, latvia, greece is that the functioning of the european institutions is understandable and understood by him, that their many so-called european values do not really contradict his understanding of the national patriotic values of his country, which he expects. because in our daily lives, we are exposed to conflicting information streams that often cause confusion. so we should also rethink this account of these values a little bit more from today's perspective and a lot more deeply before we start to reform europe. when it comes to social cohesion, people want to compete. it is not possible to have legislation coming in every moment which shames many less developed member states for engaging in social dumping.
for the ecr group - the president! i am pleased with the european parliament's assessment of efsi i, which is not only a success story but also a sign of the shortcomings already mentioned here. this geographical imbalance is obvious. the commissioner said that this situation is changing and that geographical imbalance is disappearing, but if we look at the projects that the eib has approved recently, especially in the infrastructure sector, then in the countries of eastern and central europe you basically see that public money is replacing 100 per cent of this risk money that was meant for private money, particularly in transport projects, because there is no private money coming in in these projects, because there is no euro, that is, money coming in from local authorities directly or indirectly. and finally, if we idealize too much, i think, this efsi approach and try to replace the principle of the cohesion fund, the principle of grants with this principle of the efsi in the next seven-year budget, then we will create very big differences in the future of the european union, bigger than they are now.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the european fund for strategic investments has benefited mainly those countries that do not have big investment gaps and it creates an unequal geographical distribution of funded projects. now the competition is going on: which comes first? the positive result of cohesion and investment policies for the latvian economy or huge demographic change in latvia. many people have left the country because they are tired of waiting for the latvian economy to reach western and nordic eu economy levels. they prefer to emigrate with their families. the shrinking working-age population will not offer any prospects for those who remain in the country. as a result, we will see a beautiful but empty country with a small, old and poor population. the latvian economy needs investment from the european fund for strategic investments, and distribution should be made without any discrimination. i support the report and especially the idea of providing technical assistance to those countries and regions which have benefited less from the european fund for strategic investments.
mr president, the collaborative economy creates new opportunities for our societies and would make an important contribution to jobs and growth in the european union. but the main challenge is to find a proper definition of what the term ‘collaborative economy’ means. an answer should be found for some important issues related to consumer protection, employment relationships, tax rules and other issues. the collaborative economy enables people to work according to flexible arrangements. this makes it possible for them to become economically active where more traditional forms of employment are not suitable. but at the same time we should be careful. sometimes new platforms and technologies are only used to avoid labour and tax legislation. this creates unfair advantages and puts pressure on other market participants to do the same. as a result, we see a race to the bottom that can have a very unpleasant and unpredictable economic, social and political outcome. i think this report is a step in the right direction.
mr president, conflict in yemen is not a popular theme of discussion in european media. this is leading to our usual european problem: selective blindness. one part of this blindness exists because of a lack of concentration in european society. the problem exists only if people see the emotional stories on tv or in social media. if not, the problem does not exist in people’s minds at all. as a result, politicians are free to do nothing to resolve this bloody conflict. many european politicians are not being frank about the situation in yemen. the political elite of some eu countries are silent because of the interest in the arms trading deal with saudi arabia. money has no smell. we europeans are also responsible for the victims of this ongoing conflict because of our silence, and are fuelling this war by selling weapons to groups in the conflict zone. we in the european parliament like to criticise other countries, but we are not critical of ourselves. i supported all the amendments of the gue group and the greens in this resolution.
in writing. – the commission has proposed providing macro-financial assistant (mfa) to moldova of up to eur 100 million. the implementation of the mfa would go hand-in hand with the budgetary support operations financed by the european neighbourhood instrument that have been frozen since early 2015. moldova has faced a difficult period over the last two years both economically and politically. while the ppe supported the commission proposal to a large extent, it introduced a stronger conditionality for granting macro-financial assistance to contribute to a greater political and macroeconomic stability of the country. these conditions include the strengthening of economic and financial governance, including a thorough, result-oriented investigation into bank fraud, good energy governance, an accountable, transparent and merit-based civil service, the freedom, independence and pluralism of the media, sustainable development and poverty reduction and the political independence of the judiciary. a pre-condition for granting the mfa and for the disbursement of each of the three instalments should be that moldova respects effective democratic mechanisms – including a multi-party parliamentary system – and the rule of law, and guarantees respect for human rights.
madam president, the stated aim of this legislative proposal is to increase existing trade flows and to foster bilateral trade and economic cooperation between ukraine and the european union, but in the same document it states that the european union will see a loss of customs revenue corresponding to less than eur 50 million annually, with very limited impact on eu own resources. ‘limited impact’ means that in reality this proposal is empty. it is the lowest possible result. nevertheless, the committee on international trade suggested additional cuts for certain product groups such as wheat, maize and processed tomatoes. we can compare this to a situation where somebody presents a gift to a friend in a big beautiful box, but inside there is only a very small candy at the bottom. such a gift can be perceived only as a mockery.
mr president, colleagues, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i'm going to talk about industry and jobs today. we know that in europe we have a target of increasing the share of industry in gdp to 20%. it's good. it's about jobs. but the question is, why in europe do we not have so many of those jobs in industry, why are we not getting involved? and here we have to remember that european industry is competing in the global market, competing with america, with china, with japan, with other economies. and for any industry, any industry, to be competitive, it's all about the price of the raw materials. the price! especially energy, especially electricity. the lower the electricity prices, the more competitive the european industry is. mr timmerman, i ask you as the commission's representative to pay particular attention in the eighteenth year to the fact that this so-called winter energy package, which would actually promote it through legislation to develop the electricity market, really goes ahead through both parliament and the council so that we can get to a new law in europe that will promote competition in the electricity market, that will bring down prices, that will make our industry more competitive so that we can reach this 20% target.
madam president, the honorable vice president! the european defence plan has two obvious financial features: one is that we will get money from the european union budget for research and development in the military field and the other is that we will order military orders from a member state only to european union military industrial companies. i think it's more of a regional instrument of regional policy, because if we look, only a few countries in the european union have a serious military industry, and after the uk leaves, it will be even less. mr juncker often likes to say that we need to reduce the number of tank models from 17 to one, as in the united states. so i would say, however, that we need both models of tanks that would work well in the desert operations of sub-saharan africa and those that would work in the dirt of the russian border. the united states has for many years invested vast resources financially and advanced military technology far, far beyond europe. and it's important for countries like russia's neighbors to get this best of military technology now, not in a decade's time when we might catch up with the united states.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would first like to wish the estonian presidency every success. going very quickly through the three priorities of your programme, i would like to start with an open and innovative european economy. it is not an easy time for this task because we know there is a global shift in thinking about free trade and also, even on a single market issue, particularly in several service sectors, we see that it is not really a single market. i wish you a very strong position to succeed in this field and to go in a protectionist direction. in particular in estonia you have had great experience, since estonia regained independence, of creating a small, open economy with free trade and a very simple system of how to start doing business. the second issue is security. with the eu having a border with an aggressive neighbour, i think you know very well why you have such priorities as increasing defence expenditure. you have always kept all your promises to nato. i would point out that they are promises, not obligations. tunne kelam spoke of supporting and strengthening relations such as with eastern partnership countries. this is also very important. on eu—nato relations on the security issue, it may not be well known that estonia is home to the nato cooperative cyber defence centre of excellence. any eu member state can get cybersecurity advice and excellence from this centre so it is not necessary to create some kind of european agency for this purpose. regarding digital matters, i think you will succeed in the next six months with the digital single market. i hope this will also be done with commissioner ansip who knows this issue very well. i would just like to add what has already has been said about digital issues, namely that the e-residency programme in estonia could also perhaps remove some obstacles which would be created if the outcome of the brexit negotiations goes the wrong way. prime minister, a final point, you are here today with your closest allies. there could be more of us – also on the commission side – but it is not ridiculous.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. terrorism is perhaps the greatest security threat facing the european union today. the question is, what can we as lawmakers do to stop terrorism? you can't just make terrorism illegal by law - it already is! but we can take away the terrorists' easy access to funding by cutting off their source of funding. the law is currently open, in a trilogue process between parliament and the council to reach a final decision, the anti-money laundering directive. the european parliament has not yet been able to reach an agreement with the council, i.e. the maltese presidency. we want to get to a clear beneficiary registry that reveals both the offshore and the trust owners, and that's a key weapon in the fight against terrorist financing. i call on the estonian presidency to pay particular attention to this and to help us reach a final solution as quickly as possible.
madam president, the european union cannot outsource its industrial capacities to other continents. that is not wise, in the same way that a human organism cannot declare that it will not use its liver because livers are not as cool as kidneys. the result for the organism would be devastating. my country, latvia, has lost 25% of jobs in industry since joining the european union and now my country depends heavily on help from european funds. without a proper industrial policy, we cannot say that our european economy is sustainable. that is why it is very important to strengthen and modernise the industrial base in europe. the commission, together with the member states, should adopt a holistic european industrial policy strategy. we cannot only scratch one another behind the ears and call it a modern service economy. we need a modern and developed industry in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. in europe, our main climate goal is to reduce co2 emissions. we have a variety of resources that can help: sun, wind, water, and even forests. if there is a lot of sun in the south of europe, there is little sun in the north of europe, but there are a lot of forests. we get all kinds of products from the forest: paper, wood, but also musical instruments, toys, furniture. very rich. and it's from the waste, the sawdust and the sawdust, that we also get the fuel, which we use to produce heat and electricity. so renewable energy all over the place. ladies and gentlemen, we must not destroy the european forestry industry, but instead encourage its sustainable development, which means that every tree that is cut must be replaced immediately. a cut tree does not necessarily mean a deforested forest.
on behalf of the ppe group - madam president, i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. in any market, it is important that the same rules apply to all. the gas market is no exception. very important if we want to increase the security of gas supply, we also need to strengthen the market. what is important about this regulation is that we have not only found out how member states help each other, but we have also significantly increased the so-called transparency that happens with gas contracts between european consumers and a third country supplier. what exactly is this about? we have a huge asymmetry in europe. we buy a third of our gas from one supplier from russia, but there is one monopoly export company gazprom on the russian side. one company. on the european side, we are divided: 28 member states and many times more gas companies. they have all the information the european side doesn't. they have price controls, the european side doesn't. with this regulation now, with the regulation, the european commission will also have the right to look at these gas supply contracts, these important contracts, to make sure that european laws are respected and, most importantly, that the safety of european consumers is high, but that we in europe are not paying for this natural resource.
mr president, it is the duty of every civilised and cultural society to combat all forms of violence against women and domestic violence. the istanbul convention colleagues, however, used this serious issue to introduce for the first time the definition of gender and gender identity that is independent from a person’s sex in the international law. the fight against violence against women, assistance to its victims and education as part of the prevention of violence are among the exclusive competences of the eu member states. by joining the istanbul convention, the eu would violate the lisbon treaty and exceed its powers. today, violence against women and domestic violence is a criminal offence in all the member states of the eu, but not all of them have ratified the controversial istanbul convention because they have many serious doubts about its text. if society loses its ability to distinguish between a man and woman, the fight against violence against women remains only an informal commitment. such superficial formalism does not help women victims. that is why i voted against.
thank you very much, mr president. we have just heard, ladies and gentlemen, the speech by commission president jean-claude juncker, who devoted 95% of his time to the problems of the european union. and i think that's a very good message, because we have to think first about the problems here at home, in the european union. i voted against this resolution, drawn up by my colleague mr austerlitz, and i will tell you why. because we have two choices: either continue on this path of resolutions and condemn dictator aliyev, dictator lukashenko, and never visit third countries and try to develop relations; or stop this vocabulary and this manner and continue in a good tone and as friends and neighbors to help them. moreover, i agree with my colleague that corruption is not unique to azerbaijan or belarus or anywhere else. corruption exists in my country too, latvia, and we have to think about that.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i think this dumping scandal is understandable and can be understood as an example. a lesson and a reminder not to put all your eggs in one basket. what's this about? for years, we have had one main priority in europe. this is our climate goal to reduce co2 emissions. it is a good and right cause. but as a result of this objective, through various laws and tax policies, we have helped to establish the diesel industry in europe. industry has followed politics and taxes, consumers have followed the same, and we have created the world's best diesel technology, employing millions of people, a huge industry. and then, unfortunately, it turns out that this same industry has been misleading the public for years about how much waste there really is. and it turns out that it's not just co2 that's a problem, but especially nitrous oxide, the so-called hairs, that are dangerous to our health. not for the environment, but for our health. what was the reaction? one reaction is to say, "shoot! we have to get rid of all these diesel cars, we have to get rid of this industry! this is something terrible! but let's be realistic about this. millions of people work. it is one of europe's great economic engines, so to speak. far wiser than banning these technologies is to encourage the industry to change itself. and the one thing we have to remember in the future is that when we make policy, we're not going to be one-technology-friendly, because we don't know what the unintended and possibly negative side effects might be.
mr president, i was the shadow for both the committee on employment and social affairs’ and the committee on petitions’ opinions on parliament’s report on the accessibility act and we worked hard for these opinions. we are very disappointed with the text adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). for us in the greens-efa group there are a number of red lines in this text. first of all, regarding the scope: persons with functional limitations, which includes not only disabled persons, as the scope mentions in imco report, but also persons with reduced mobility, older people and people carrying strollers. we also insist on including built environment related to the provision of goods and services. we also stand for accessibility obligations, also from micro-enterprises. i hope that voting on appropriate amendments will improve the report, otherwise we cannot support it.
the blue card issue. - the good mr. dartmouth! i want to ask you a question. as you are now so passionately criticising both the european commission and my colleague corina crețu, whom i would like to congratulate because she is a commissioner from romania, she is a social democrat, she is working hard to solve the problems you are talking about in the most effective way. but my question to you is in principle: why are you here in this room criticizing the european commission if your political group is fundamentally against the european union? so, can we stop talking like this and just clear the plenary?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to a scandalous situation in my country, latvia. the illegal trade in waste has become a national tragedy. there are many places where unscrupulous private owners pile up large and sometimes toxic waste directly from switzerland, the netherlands, etc. this is a very lucrative business which is damaging to our environment but unfortunately our national legislation does not allow it to be stopped and those responsible to be punished. ladies and gentlemen, we must put an end to this traffic by means of appropriate european legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i would urge the council to take advantage of the relatively good economic situation in the european union and the less politicization that occurs after major elections, but to be fair, it is often necessary to acknowledge the mistakes that have been made, and here on the council's agenda, i think, there are examples that could prevent these mistakes. it's about migration. in order to shape a new migration policy, you have to admit mistakes, and if we look at the press release from the european commission, it says that 23,000 asylum seekers have found homes in the european union as a result of the relocation. that's not true! in my country, latvia, everyone who was in this food scheme and came to latvia, has left latvia, and this has happened in many countries. so it's a mistake to admit that it doesn't work that way. i urge mr maasikas and the estonian presidency to continue the fifth freedom: the imposition of data flows while it is still possible. finally, i was very surprised to read from mr timmerman that europe protects its citizens. it's a little unbelievable on the streets of barcelona today.
mr president, the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) will fill serious international gaps. the prevention and prosecution of offences against the eu budget and the financial interests of the eu are currently within the exclusive competence of member states. the eu anti-fraud office olaf, eurojust and europol do not have a mandate to conduct criminal investigations, and sometimes their opinions are ignored by national authorities. we have worrying information that, in some member states, national investigators are under pressure from local politicians, and they are not interested in the proper investigation of the use of money from european funds. we have now taken a small but very important step. we have started to create a european system. we should not be confused by the fact that only 20 eu member states will participate in the creation of the eppo or by the very limited nature of its mandate. as we have often seen in eu history, big reforms all start with very careful first decisions. i voted in favour.
mr president, i think that the main tasks of prisons are not only to be an instrument for punishment and isolation, but also to be institutions that prevent future crimes and help prisoners return to normal life. this cannot happen if the prisoners live in bad conditions, with overcrowded rooms, or if experienced prisoners are held in the same cells as young people convicted for minor crimes. we should establish dignified conditions of detention, create possibilities for socialisation, encourage rehabilitation and reintegration into society, develop educational facilities for prisoners, and ensure a safer living and working environment for both prisoners and staff. i’m worried that the latvian government will postpone a project to build a new, modern prison in my country, and thus the closing of three old, overcrowded prisons. this is not an act of political wisdom, nor is it in the interest of the society. however, i voted in favour of this report yet again.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. - i'm not going anywhere. first of all, i'd like to thank my colleague and friend jens nilsson for bringing this problem up to date. because, to be honest, we don't talk about the social economy very much here in the european parliament, although it's one of the cornerstones in my view. this is what differentiates us and the european union from the rest, from third countries. we're always trying to keep the strong from getting hurt and help the weak. that's the most important thing. social economy is not the north korean type or the planned economy like the ussr i remember it from my childhood or is there something to share, and so on. social economy is first and foremost a responsibility. the responsibility and accountability lies not only with the workers but also with the employers, and it is good that the commission is working in this direction. i will not be afraid to criticize the commission here, because i know how much the commission has done to implement these plans.
in writing. – tomorrow parliament will vote for the eu budget for 2018 which includes a budget line for eu strategic communication and equips the eeas with adequate staff and tools to face the challenge of disinformation from third states and non-state actors. i hope the council will listen to this call and will allocate adequate resources.
mr president, i will try to keep this communication in order. vicepriekšsēdētāja kungs! diemžēl tik daudz laika vajadzēja, lai vairāk eiropas līderiem 2015. gada migrācijas krīze liktu saprast, ka tā lielā mērā ir krimināla biznesa organizēta krīze, un saprast to, kādi soļi būtu jāsper. risinājumi, kas tika piedāvāti, manuprāt, neiztur kritiku, kaut vai piemērs ar pārvietošanas shēmu. mana valsts, latvija, kvotu ietvaros pieņēma samērā daudz migrantu, bet neviens no viņiem nav palicis latvijā, jo viņi, protams, aizbrauca uz tām dalībvalstīm, par kurām bija samaksāts kriminālajiem noziedzniekiem un kurās viņi vēlas dzīvot, visbiežāk — uz vāciju. tātad šāda sistēma neder, un tā tikai radīja spriedzi daudzu eiropas dalībvalstu starpā. par šeit dzirdēto jauno piedāvājumu — par legālo imigrāciju. vai mēs padomājam — ja mēs paņemsim labākos cilvēkus no āfrikas valstīm, tad ko mēs atstājam tajās valstīs? kas paliks? mēs īstenībā ciniski iztukšosim āfrikas valstu nākotni, ja mēs tādā veidā rīkosimies.
in writing. – the situation in the mediterranean has showed that unfortunately people smugglers are often a few steps ahead of the eu. it has turned the migration crisis into a very profitable business. the migratory pressure on the eu external borders is constant and will continue in the foreseeable future as there are considerable economic and political differences between the eu and its neighbourhood. in order to curb, manage illegal migration we need to, first of all, strengthen the eu external border. it is our duty to our citizens to keep our border safe. second, we need to focus our efforts to restore and strengthen state structures in countries like libya. third, we must strengthen the cooperation with african countries, provide our assistance but also ask them to take back their nationals who travelled to eu illegally and do not qualify for asylum. fourth, we need to give the possibility for people who are in need for international protection to apply for asylum outside the eu, to avoid their dangerous journey to europe in the hands of people smugglers. until we have fulfilled these preconditions, it will be very difficult to agree on any relocation schemes across the member states.
mr president, on 21 september, the provisional agreement between canada and the european union came into force. we can already see how beneficial and right this agreement was. we can also see that many of those who opposed this agreement were actually basing their opposition on false facts or were simply not well enough informed. i am afraid – and i would also like to give a warning – that once we start to open these negotiations with such countries as new zealand and australia, we have to keep in mind that there are certain lessons we should learn from previous paths. first of all, i would like to say that, as america is now hesitant about doing trade deals, we, the european union, should go forward. secondly, i would like to say that there is no place for the exclusion of a number of sectors, or certain sectors, from these trade deals. if those people who are trying so hard to stand by our farmers are so afraid of new zealand, they should rather direct their energy to giving right and just subsidies to such countries as latvia and lithuania, because even inside the european union we still have no justice in agriculture. we can make a nice and good deal where both sides can benefit.
mr president, i fully agree that financial stability should be guaranteed and that capital should be used to fund the real economy, rather than for speculative activity. what are financial bubbles and what are the consequences? as we saw in 2008, our life is not a computer game where someone can start a risky game, fail and afterwards, without consequences, start a new one. that is why we need guarantees. that is why securitisations are an important part of well—functioning financial markets.
mr president, i would like to underline the importance of cohesion policy. cohesion policy is a most powerful instrument for reducing regional development disparities. in my country, latvia, it gives more than 70% of investments in our economy. that is why we are very concerned about the future of cohesion policy after 2020. i think that the amount of money for cohesion policy should be increased, not reduced, after 2020. latvia has lost one third of its population in the last 25 years and demographic trends for the future are very unfavourable. people leave the country because of the low salaries and lack of prospects there. we are in a very dangerous trap and if cohesion fund investment is reduced, there will be no way out of this trap. i voted in favour, of course.
mr president, the number of infringements remains high. at the end of 2015, there were 1368 infringement cases. they especially concern violations of eu law, in particular in the fields of employment and social affairs, the environment, justice, fundamental rights, the internal market, transport, health, education and culture. every delay is dangerous. it undermines the trust of the people in the european union and has real material consequences. to avoid this in the future, we should work closely with the commission, national governments and national parliaments. but first of all we should understand the real nature of the infringements and only after that will we be able to tackle this problem effectively. i voted in favour.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. a few hours ago, at the opening of the plenary session, the president of parliament, antonio tajani, promised to send a letter of protest to the president of ukraine, petro poroshenko. the reasons are clear the recently adopted ukrainian education law prohibits national minorities in ukraine from receiving general education in their native languages: slovak, hungarian, polish, greek, bulgarian. but in reality, the same thing is happening in latvia at the moment. in latvia, 28% of all pupils in minority schools are educated in latvian, and the latvian ministry's plan provides for education in latvian only. this means the phasing out of schools. according to a survey commissioned by our ministry, only 2% of minority children in schools support this kind of reform. just as low is the percentage for support from parents and teachers. my fellow citizens! it appears that another government is emerging in the european union, which intends to jeopardise the democratic values of the european union in order to achieve its own ends.
mr president, i think that the european partnership programme is an ideological challenge: we understand that something does not work but really do not understand what. in ukraine we have a lot of problems with mass media freedom, the fight against corruption and economic reforms. the new education act that eliminates education in national minority languages is an example of nationalistic policy that is not compatible with european values and the respect of national minorities. we cannot understand how to react in the absence of progress. we have received empty words and promises from some of our partners who exchange inertia for money and political support. we in the european union should change our attitude. the positive example is georgia. georgians have made big progress. they have a lot to do in the future, but we can see real progress. i think that the european union should support georgia more actively and should not bind georgia with the ukraine and moldova which, let’s be frank, do not show this progress.
the blue card issue. thank you, mr. mastalka, for accepting my request for a blue card. my question is: we know that russia is not participating in the eastern partnership programme, and that there are certain conditions in history and in attitude. my question is: can you imagine a situation where the russian federation would one day be part of the eastern partnership? thank you.
author. – mr president, one hundred years ago, lenin’s coup in russia paved the way for the most inhuman political system of the last century: totalitarianism. today we remember and commemorate more than 100 million victims of totalitarian regimes, all those who vanished in stalin’s gulags, hitler’s death camps and mao’s great famine, and those who were killed by other dictators and tyrants inspired by communists and nazis. the consequences of these totalitarian regimes are felt to this day. like many of those who were left behind the iron curtain under communist rule, i have experienced totalitarianism myself. my grandparents perished in the gulag, my mother spent 17 years there, my father eight years, and i was born there. from day one of my life, my parents had to check me in with the kgb every month. i had no rights at all. i was born with the label ‘enemy of the people’. for those crimes not to be repeated, we need remembrance and education to build immunity for our societies against every temptation of totalitarian solutions. and let me quote the great hannah arendt: ‘totalitarian solutions may well survive the fall of totalitarian regimes in the form of strong temptations, which will come up whenever it seems impossible to alleviate political, social or economic misery in a manner worthy of man.’ moreover we need to recognise and confront totalitarian trends wherever they manifest themselves, whether it is north korea which poses a global threat, whether it is russia where stalin is once again admired, or whether it is totalitarian jihadist islamism which is at war with our values and with true islam. we should not close our eyes to the fact that china is emerging as a superpower under leninist autocracy, or to the case of venezuela, where populist rule has evolved into a dictatorial regime. the clear link between populism, extremism, autocracy and dictatorship around the world is one to bear in mind as we face the challenges in our own societies. our own euro-atlantic family of nations with shared values has not been immune to very obvious populist and authoritarian trends. populism is a form of authoritarianism that distorts democracy without destroying it, but under populist rule, democracies become illiberal, with populists defining themselves as the entire people, and all those who disagree as enemies of the people. therefore we need to clearly recognise and resist populists and radicals on both the left and the right and not let them hijack and denigrate our democratic values. as we are facing the rise of autocratic global powers, we in europe should find ways to revitalise our core values within our own family of nations. whatever the temptations of totalitarian thinking, i strongly believe that liberal democracy must have and will have the last word.
mr president, the best way to avoid the consequences of revolutions and wars is to prevent them by tackling the reasons that cause them. in 1913, vladimir lenin wrote that the revolution he was preparing would not take place in his lifetime. however, it happened four years later. in 1917, it was not the bolsheviks who seized power, but other groups that gave it to them, and nobody – except the bolsheviks – was ready to take the power that was lying at their feet. the revolution happened because problems accumulating in society had been ignored for a long time. what lessons should the european union draw from the russian revolution today? firstly, it should recognise the problem and not deny it. we still try to deny problems and punish those who warn us about them. secondly, institutions will not help if there is an ideological emptiness inside them. an absence of common values eventually leads to the collapse of structures. thirdly, do not solve your problems of today at the expense of a weak group of the population. for example, the problem of social inequality should not be given to capitalists or national linguistic minorities’ problems to nationalists. fourthly, do not solve internal problems by demonising your neighbours in order to consolidate your own society. such consolidation works only for a short period, but the problems will return like a boomerang. we need a clear vision. if we are unable to formulate our vision and our aims in a short form which is understandable for every single person, this means that we do not have this vision at all. it is a path straight to stagnation, then to collapse and anarchy followed by totalitarianism. let us think about it.
mr president, i would like to focus on a very important aspect of the european ombudsman’s work, which many of my colleagues have already mentioned, namely the so—called revolving door phenomenon. this refers to a situation in which an industry sends its people to a government position in order to gain political support for their private firms and, in the other direction, in which industry hires people from an eu institution in order to gain access to officials and federal legislation, as well as to get inside information on what is going on in eu institutions. the transparency international report ‘access all areas’ finds that 15 out of 27 commissioners who completed their mandates in 2014 entered employment with organisations on the eu lobby register at the end of their 18—month cooling—off period. the bright example is, of course, josé manuel barroso, who was president of the commission until 2014 and who became chairman of goldman sachs international for the bank’s uk and european operations. i think the ombudsman should pay more attention to the revolving door phenomenon in the european union. the ombudsman should insist on the creation of an independent ethics body which would decide which professional activities are subject to a conflict of interests and continue her work to ensure publication of the names of all eu officials involved in revolving door cases.
my fellow citizens! it is known that the russian ban has had a negative impact on european fruit and vegetable producers. my country latvia is among the countries most affected by the russian embargo. however, the negative impact of this ban on the economy has largely been overcome. latvian farmers have been able to find new markets for the export of not only fruit and vegetables but also other food products. latvian farmers have won over reliable markets. the main export market for vegetables is the baltic states, where we sell almost two thirds of all vegetables and four fifths of all fruits and berries. exports of vegetables to germany, norway and poland have increased. the latvian economy is showing positive signs. the rapid economic growth of recent years also demonstrates our country's remarkable ability to adapt to the impact of the russian embargo. the rain and flooding have been a major problem, and we are looking for european solidarity. russia has not fulfilled the conditions of the minsk agreements. it has proven itself to be a unreliable partner. the sanctions should therefore be maintained. we, in turn, need to look for new opportunities for food exports by continuing to support our local farmers, rather than squeezing and sucking as if the russian market is the only place we can export our produce. here too, the commission has a role to play in helping to find new export markets. i believe that europe must continue to provide humanitarian and development aid and that we must export food to those countries where hunger is a daily problem. on an election observation mission in the gambia, i saw that for months, the climate was so unusual that fruit was almost unavailable. climate change is causing famine in a large part of the african continent. and we have to be farsighted, considering that in the future, the greatest population growth will be in africa. by supporting it, we can also support our farmers.
madam president, support for the african continent is not a gift or charity. investment in africa’s development will help not only the african people, but also us europeans. a stable and developing african continent will give us more security. it will prevent forced migration, because people will be able to receive decent work and social protection in their states and native lands. it will give us more possibilities for our businesses to find partners and of course new markets. in my view, there are a lot of empty words from the leaders of our eu member states that mask a lack of will. the test will be whether or not the member states of the european union fulfil their commitment to directing 0.7% of their gdp to official development assistance to strengthen cooperation with africa.
madam president, the european ombudsman has the very important function of improving the quality or work of the european institutions. let’s be frank, very often we can see examples of lack of transparency, conflicts of interest and red tape. each such case discredits the idea of the european union and gives strong arguments to the numerous eurosceptics. ombudsmen should pay more attention to the revolving-door phenomenon in the european union. ombudsmen should insist on the creation of an independent ethics board which would decide which professional activities are subject to a conflict of interest. ombudsmen should play a bigger role in order to make the european institutions more open, transparent and more understandable for europeans. we should remember that it is very easy to lose the trust of people, but it is very hard to restore it. of course, i voted in favour.
madam president, we often try to solve a problem only when it becomes evident, but very often it is hard to find a good solution at this stage. inequality starts in childhood. different possibilities in education and health services for one group of children than for another start to create an equality gap. as people become older, accumulated inequality starts to give negative results in people’s work and social life. that is why it is so important to make a timely investment in children’s and young people’s education, skills and health. one of the positive examples of such a programme is the youth employment initiative. this programme shows positive results. it needs a higher funding level for the period 2017-2020, at least eur 21 billion. every additional euro spent on these purposes will be returned to society by people who will be integrated into society and fully realise their talents. i voted in favour.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in my view, if we want to place the accent on one theme one year, it would be logical not to devalue it by creating another similar theme the next year. such a policy could lead to the absurd ‘year of everything’. in my opinion, that is not our aim. i understand that the eu—china tourism year is very important for the commission in order to create better relations with china, but it could be better implemented in another form. i hope that in the future this consideration will be taken into account.
the blue card issue. thank you so much, mrs. toom, for accepting my blue card request. this week, here in the european parliament - yesterday, actually - we marked the centenary of the bolshevik revolution, and several colleagues condemned the communist regime, the communist party, and so on. and at the same time, we here in parliament want to be friends with china, a country of one and a half billion people, ruled by the communist party. doesn't that seem to be a bit of a duplicity to you? thank you.
my fellow citizens! i'd like to start by thanking mr. mursher for a really professional job well done. the last few months in the committee on budgets have been very busy, but on 18 november, the day of my proclamation of latvia, the council and the european parliament reached an agreement on next year's budget. 'what do we want to achieve?' asked the previous speaker. next year, we should not build a castle of lights, not a castle of air, but use this budget to work actively to make our economy stronger, our universities more competitive and our companies better prepared to compete in the world market. eur 350 million is earmarked for support to smes under the cosme programme. eur 11 billion is allocated to the programme 'outlook 2020'. i am very pleased that the connecting europe facility for transport infrastructure has also managed to maintain the funding that the council wanted to reduce by 200 million. next year, almost €2 billion will be allocated to all european-level infrastructure projects, including rail baltic, which is important not only for the baltic states but also for the rest of europe. of course, it is a special pleasure to have received support for both of the pilot projects i co-created. eur 800 000 was allocated to a study of the differences between similar products on the european single market, demanding the same quality of goods as in eastern europe and western europe. president juncker also pointed out that such differences were no longer acceptable. the pilot project on more effective dealing with russian disinformation will receive eur 1,1 million. i'm really pleased that at last this fake news, this fake news is getting the attention it deserves, and the extra money that's been allocated, and it's not too much money. this can only be seen as a start, because our european future depends to a large extent on it.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have a number of challenges in europe in the energy sector itself. so, first of all, we have a high dependence on fossil fuels: coal, oil, gas. this is problematic both for the climate co2 emissions , and it is problematic for our energy independence, which is that we mainly import these sources. our trends have been increasing with imports. secondly, we still have a lot of barriers to cross-border trade. so these barriers are both regulatory and physical -- sometimes there's just a lack of interconnection. and thirdly, we have relatively very high energy prices in europe. this is because we often have limited competition, and we also have very distorting subsidies - both for fossil and renewable resources. the answer is this european energy union strategy, which is actually now being phased in; as the commissioner says, the laws are moving the process along. we need to understand that our climate goals to reduce co2 emissions and our competitors' goals to reduce energy prices are not in conflict. we can get one and get the other. we need to reduce our dependence on imports, we need to remove barriers to trade, and we need to phase out these market-distorting subsidies, which ultimately harm both the investment environment and the achievement of our objectives and, of course, the competitiveness of europe as a whole. thank you for your attention.
mr president, in some cases security really is an important element for sustainable development. the proposal we will vote on tomorrow is a pilot project. it will have to prove in the next few years that it is efficient and functions properly. we must check that the main principles cause no harm. that is why eu assistance should be used to build the capacity of military actors and partner countries only under exceptional circumstances. these exceptional circumstances require that military actors should only receive financing when development goals cannot be achieved by non-military actors and when state institutions are at risk of collapse. there must also be a consensus among the international community. this may take the form of a un security council resolution or a programming document agreed between the union and other international partners as, for example, as it was with the case of somalia. to be successful this pilot project should be properly restricted, transparent, controlled by the european parliament and not financed from funds for the development cooperation instrument. i ask you to vote in favour tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to point out that this report is a very important step forward for ensuring the main rights of people with disabilities, and i want to congratulate helga stevens for drafting it. we consider it very positive that the report mentions the need for a holistic definition and application of accessibility and our group stands for accessibility in its broadest meaning: accessible, affordable and available. we are happy that the final text includes a call on the commission to set mandatory requirements on the accessibility of public spaces and especially the built environment. it is also of extreme importance to increase the employment rate of persons with disabilities in the open labour market. we would be glad if real solutions will follow. we are also happy that the report points out that the new skills agenda should include persons with disabilities as a specific target group. we nevertheless want to express our concern that the mechanisms to ensure an adequate minimum income for persons with disabilities are not sufficiently examined and considered in this report, although that should be one of the main priorities. we also think an important point, which is mentioned in this document but not fully implemented in the text, is the lack of a common definition of disability. if we had such a definition in the future it could solve a lot of misunderstanding.
madam president, i am not satisfied with the eu budget for 2018 because, on 17 november, president juncker proclaimed the creation of the european pillar of social rights. but proclamation without budget money is just empty words. we cannot see commitment with social content that would be connected with the proclaimed european social pillar in the next budget. of course, i voted in favour, but we have to stress that the european union cannot be properly developed without real common social policy.
madam president, security is an important element of stable development, and this proposal is to allow eu budgetary support and strengthen the capacity of military actors in chad, in mali and the central african republic and so on in order to contribute to the achievement of peaceful societies and sustainable development. security is a very sensitive area. it is very connected with the internal and external conflicts that could happen in a concrete country, and we must observe the main principle: do not do harm. to be successful, this pilot project should be properly restricted, transparent, controlled by the european parliament and not financed from development cooperation instrument money. this is our political group’s principle position, and of course i personally voted in favour.
madam president, saudi arabia hates their opponents in yemen; we know the situation, and now the european position is rather strange. on the one hand, europe is horrified by the humanitarian situation in yemen, and on the other hand, some european countries sell weapons to saudi arabia. this is unacceptable, and i am really happy that today we had a majority of members who voted in favour of embargo. this is really very important. dear colleagues, we should choose to adhere to our european values and principles or to extract a commercial interest from this war, and we cannot combine these. of course, i voted in favour of this report and resolution.
on behalf of the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the cooperation agreement with kazakhstan was signed two years ago in december 2015 and has already been ratified by 18 member states of the european union. the agreement has now been submitted to the european parliament and we will have a vote tomorrow. as mr. kukan mentioned, this vote is taking place on a very significant day for kazakhstan, because december 16 is the country's independence day, and 26 years in the development of the country is a very small step compared to countries with hundreds of years of democratic experience. kazakhstan is a stable, predictable and constructive partner of the european union with a very important role in the region, with a very important role in central asia. kazakhstan is a guarantor of security, stability and the fight against terrorism in the region. they ensure not only the security of their own country and neighbouring countries, but also, to a large extent, that of our european union. the new agreement is an important tool for both businesses and citizens. it is a new platform to develop new forms of cooperation, to invest in this country, to receive investments in the european union. of course, there are still many problems, but the main thing is the direction, and the direction is very positive. that is why i call for a vote on this agreement tomorrow. the european union wants to be a leader, it wants to be an influential player in foreign policy, so it needs to be more active, and other central asian countries are also looking forward to such agreements. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i would first like to thank mr langen for his leadership of the committee and the other colleagues for their work, although i cannot agree with all the points in the recommendations. in our committee's work, we have seen how difficult it is for financial news agencies that collect this information and financial market regulators to work together not only across borders, but also sometimes within a single country. so i think the key is not to create new institutions, but to ensure that financial news is exchanged and that financial market surveillance information is available. but during the panama commission, we also saw how different and different the understanding was of the ethics of politicians, of the legislation governing conflicts of interest in the different member states of the european union, and also of the tax legislation, and we met ministers and government ministers who were great experts on trust companies. at the same time, we meet mps who are still working as tax consultants and legislators in their spare time, and it's no wonder that these countries are experiencing horrific crimes like the murder of journalists. dirty money does not bring happiness. it is followed by unclean people with their uncleanness. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)))
blue-card answer. – the short answer is no.
mr president, i voted against this report because many important things have been pushed out and, on the contrary, some off-topic things like rejection of unilateral changes in internal borders were voted in this report. in my opinion, it is scandalous that this citizenship report says almost nothing on the existence of so-called non-citizens – of which there are about 300 000 in latvia, my country, and 100 000 in neighbouring estonia. these people are deprived of a number of rights and, despite having filed with the committee on petitions a petition bearing more than 10 000 signatures from latvia and estonia on voting rights for non-citizens, this problem is not tackled in this report. eight years ago, this problem was mentioned in a similar resolution, and parliament voted for this. this problem is still not resolved, and the rights of 400 000 people – permanent residents of the european union – are still being denied.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. it's a pleasure to see mr. barnier as the only responsible person still here. first, the issue of brexit. time will tell whether it was the right tactic to divide the talks into two phases or not. i'm also surprised that there was a big fuss here about david davis saying that "nothing is agreed until everything is agreed". this phrase is familiar to representatives of all three institutions in the negotiations, it is nothing new, and i think the shout is a bit of a false flag. of course, i'm also pleased to hear from some of the group leaders who care deeply about the fate of romanian and polish plumbers in britain, while at the same time trying to push them out of the eu market in several sectors by legislating for migrant workers, which is what we are doing with the mobility package for drivers. as regards economic cooperation with the united kingdom, in the second phase, i think it is extremely important that the economic interests of the smaller member states in the united kingdom, in cooperation with the united kingdom, should also be heard in the council. it simply cannot be that their interests are presented as being anti-european, so we will not take your interests into account in the second phase of the negotiations. the term 'anti-european' also makes me shudder at mr tusk's criticism by the european commissioner, who has never been given the mandate to define which views are anti-european and which are european. what has the president of the council, mr tusk, done on the issue of migration policy? he simply said that the quota system is ineffective in terms of migration policy. and is she effective? in estonia, as in my country, latvia, there are many hundreds of posted migrants who have arrived under voluntary quotas, and in the case of latvia, virtually all of them have left the country with or without documents, and they are mostly in germany, so i repeat once again that we are a democratic system, let us not pretend that only one of the commission's staff can decide what is anti-european and what is not.
mr president, according to the data provided by the council of europe, one in five children in europe are victims of some form of sexual violence – one in five, colleagues – and, more than that, children with disabilities are twice as likely to be abused as non-disabled children. these children have mainly faced sexual abuse within the family circle, become victims of child pornography, prostitution and exploitation via the internet. i particularly support the rapporteur with regard to combating the new forms of sexual crimes against children spread on the internet and developing innovative solutions. the eu needs to intensify its efforts in prevention and prosecution of such abuses, particularly by promoting cross-border cooperation with the help of europol and eurojust. prevention is the most challenging task, but also the most essential. therefore, colleagues, i ask you to support it.
mr president, i highly value the work of the committee on petitions in order to promote the legitimacy and credibility of this house and the european union. however, i have to draw attention to paragraph 29 for today’s vote, where we have a red line from the ppe group in this case, because it is exactly about credibility and about the rightness of this issue. the issue is one which does not fall under any kind of responsibility of the european union institutions, and in these times of fake news we are including the issue of faked facts about the privileges of the former soviet immigrants in formerly occupied baltic countries. by doing this, we are very much undermining the credibility of european citizens in this institution because, willingly or unwillingly, we are falling here into the trap of the kremlin propaganda here which is promoted by some of our parliamentarians. please bear this in mind.
mr president, clearly the eu needs to become a stronger and more coherent foreign policy actor, and i agree with the fact that we need more coordination between member states in order to guarantee major security for our citizens. however, i voted against the report for the following reason. the call to raise national defence budgets to 2% of gdp in the coming decade is going to bring unbalanced results in a number of eu countries. this will jeopardise the efforts of some member states to improve their social policies. just to give you an example: in latvia the budget for 2018 foresees eur 208 million for military expenses, yet only eur 28 million for family allowances and children’s needs. this means that children in latvia could get around eur 45 more per day if the military expenses went to households. in this regard, i would suggest that the eu makes more of an effort in raising the efficiency of military spending, including optimisation of industrial sectors, and so on.
mr president, hong kong’s special administrative region is one of the few places in asia where democracy is efficient and visible. it is an example of a vibrant society that is looking for ways to consolidate its democratic values. therefore, the european union should intensify its contacts with hong kong in the framework of the structured dialogue. we should make sure that, during the next decade, hong kong’s pro-democracy group enjoys full dialogue with the european union and we must particularly appreciate and encourage hong kong’s efforts in combating climate change. i voted in favour of this report and i particularly support the principle of non-interference into the internal affairs of hong kong, as well as the necessity to maintain the basic law as a guarantee of human rights, standards and fundamental political freedoms. we need to develop deeper and more active relations with hong kong as it has the potential to become an example of democratisation and liberalisation for other states in the east and south-east asia region. in this way the eu can contribute to security in the region.
mr president, we europeans have been engaged in the state-building and development of afghanistan for many years already. however, we have still failed to address the root causes of insecurity in the country. one month ago the latvian government decided to increase its military contingency in afghanistan, which currently counts 24 military experts. but a further increase of military presence in afghanistan will not get us anywhere if we do not address the issues of drug and mineral extraction that serves to finance the taliban and other extremist organisations. if you want our development efforts in afghanistan to be successful we firstly need to contribute to security building and we need to take steps in preventing radicalisation, fighting corruption and establishing a strong and independent civil society. we should not forget that it is afghanistan that should have the ownership of its economic and political processes. therefore we should particularly support local initiatives and support the infrastructures to improve its citizens’ participation in political life.
