thank you mr president and i wish you well in your new post. this is a presidency that creates conflict in me. i worked hard to get malta to join the european union; i am proud to see countries at the helm of the european union. but i have a government that's protecting me. this is an administration based on vindication and which has no sense of shame, and it is also riddled - this administration - with corruption. this is an administration that has created obstacles to the local press during the ministerial meetings of the presidency. people very close to the prime minister have actually been caught. they were exposed by the panama papers to have opened money laundering facilities in which they intended to deposit millions of dollars. chief among them is minister konrad mizzi who will chair the energy council meetings. yesterday it was revealed that his company in panama is still active and this minister is the epitome of everything the european union is against: corruption is the antithesis of european values. this is a surreal situation and i am not prepared to come here and give a normal speech, i will not do this and i will not do that. i am proud to be maltese but i feel ashamed of this administration. its disregard for this administration and its lack of regard for basic decency does not represent us, the maltese and gozitan.
after the exaggerations we have just heard, among the objectives that the maltese presidency of the european union has set for its work, the aim of giving importance to europe's mediterranean neighbourhood is most welcome. recently, the mediterranean has become more and more a theatre for immigration tragedies. it remains a neighbourhood of the european union, sharing with states interests which, in the long and medium term, will eventually converge with the union's interests. these interests cover economic, political, social, cultural as well as security areas. the european union has again given full priority to the need to build cooperation in these areas without interruption, coherently and in a sense of partnership. in doing so, it will be crucial that the european union does not give the impression that it has some agenda designed to bring about change in governments, or that it is trying to raise from the past exploitation scenarios. it is true that cooperation between all the mediterranean regions could develop more effectively if we all had converging institutions, as we also wish towards democracy. but these developments must be undertaken on the initiative of the peoples concerned and freely implemented. if they do not, or if they take different forms from those which europe has developed, it is still in our common interest to ensure that europe has a proactive and forward-looking mediterranean policy. europeans make a big mistake if they try to pass on the areas they want to discuss to their agendas only. on the other hand, europe must show that in the fields of security and the fight against terrorism, it has no choice but to be tough and firm, ready to act against all those who harbour and encourage it. this all takes the form of a complex project. however, it can be misunderstood politically and morally; and this is very harmful. malta has every vested interest: the improvement and development of all the black sea shores in the face of the challenges they face. it has the advantage of being in a situation where it cannot have a hidden agenda. its goodwill is hardly to be questioned. this should make the maltese government's proposal to give a greater profile to mediterranean affairs a very important starting point; even if the maltese presidency manages to get only part of the way to achieving the objectives it has set itself, the work must be seen as a well-done effort.
the maltese presidency will play an important role in breathing new life into the europe project, focusing on the challenges that affect us all, such as migration, security and brexit, among others. it is ironic that, as we mark the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome in march, a treaty calling for greater unity between europeans, we will also see the uk trigger article 50 to leave the union. two events to take place during the maltese presidency and which should serve to give impetus to a greater effort to unite the union. it is time to show a stronger european union, focused on its tasks and determined to deliver benefits that people can really feel. we must work on commitments made to citizens, such as the abolition of roaming charges, a review of dublin and an asylum system, so that people see and feel the benefits of membership. although the smallest member state, malta has drawn up an ambitious plan that reflects the times in which we live and i am confident that it will achieve the goals it has set in the interest of all european citizens.
let me start by congratulating you on your new role as well. prime minister, greetings. contrary to the reference made by my maltese colleague from the epp, i am not ashamed to be maltese. it is indeed a pleasure to welcome the maltese government to the european parliament and you, prime minister, as a social democratic prime minister in the context of the presidency of the council. being the smallest country in the european union has its advantages. it means that we are close to our constituents and that we can understand the need to address the realities people encounter in their daily lives. prime minister, this is an opportunity to work together to make the european union relevant to our citizens, identifying in advance the problems that europe will face in order to be able to make sound and timely decisions. on immigration and security, for example. not making a decision is not an alternative and you know it. on immigration i agree with your position. we must tackle traffickers, while ensuring that refugees and asylum seekers arrive in europe strong and whole. on security, the european union needs to remain united, to remain the place where countries continue to consider each other as allies and not as a security problem for each other. this is our challenge in these critical times. ultimately the destiny of the european union is for us to really make a difference and to really put citizens at the heart of the european union.
in writing. – at the start of this mandate i said that there can be no security in europe without security in the mediterranean. halfway through the mandate, it is imperative that we devise a concrete plan for our southern borders. whilst it is encouraging to see the council underlining the need to enhance support in the region, bold action is required. tangible solutions are required to increase lifesaving capacity and help break human trafficker’s business models. however to do this we must recognise that libya is not stable nor safe. rival factions wrestle for control in a highly divided region, while a un-brokered government struggles to provide stability for the people of libya. there is a lack of attention on the region and this will ultimately result in many deaths during the coming months. i urge the eu to take advantage of the maltese presidency, a presidency of a country which has always been a central meeting point, to bring together our north-south mediterranean shores, and come up with a concrete plan with libya to tackle human trafficking in the region.
vice-president, i begin by thanking you, first of all, for the commitment you have shown over the last two years to start the european union's transition to clean energy in a serious, ambitious but also realistic way. the ambition that the european union is showing in the field of energy and climate change is positive for me. i also welcome the fact that the maltese presidency of the council is working to conclude the most important european laws in this area. today i believe we have reached the point where we need to focus more than ever on consumers in our member states to be the main participants in this energy and climate transition. i dream of an energy union where the consumer plays the most important role. renewable energy sources, such as solar panels, i believe empower consumers to make responsible decisions. and so from passive consumers they become active producers; they can consume what they produce, or even sell the energy they produce in their homes to the electricity grid, and they can also make a profit. today, technology exists that can help consumers take control of their energy consumption with the help of smart meters, electronic accounts and even electricity supply contracts with dynamic elements. malta, my home country, with a 90% coverage of smart meters, is a good example of how technology can really help the consumer. and so, while thanking the vice-president, i say that we as socialists and democrats will work to make this real proposal ambitious.
mr president, at this point in history it is difficult to have a debate on migration without taking the opportunity to reaffirm that the bottom line is that europe remains committed to acting as a safe haven for those fleeing war and persecution and who are eligible for protection. despite our long debate on how we should go about it, that must remain our core principle forged through the very worst of times. that must be the starting point for our discussions and we must be the example to the world on this issue. the situation in libya remains precarious and the eu must stand ready to help without imposition. but while the libyan people must remain masters of their own destiny, the eu does have a crucial role in helping with aid and expertise in helping libya to build up its border management and its asylum systems, improving its law enforcement capabilities and helping in its fight against terrorism. we are already doing a lot as a union, but we must stand ready to do more. it is only with a functioning libyan state that we will ever have a proper chance to agree together on enhanced cooperation to sustainability and safely manage migration flows while defeating terrorism, destroying trafficking networks’ business models and ultimately saving lives. that said, we must be careful to avoid giving the impression that a magic bullet addressing migration flows from libya can suddenly appear from one day to the next. it is a lengthy process, and there are many steps yet to be taken before there are proper functioning state operators there. we have to acknowledge this or risk alienating our citizens on this issue and playing into populists’ hands.
despite the european union's years of talking about immigration, about people losing their lives trying to cross to europe, about hundreds of thousands of people waiting to board boats leaving libya and about human traffickers profiting off the most vulnerable, we have seen little concrete solutions that have really made a difference. various sources are now talking about millions of people waiting in libya to cross to europe. the situation is critical and, unless the weather calms down, we will face another strong influx without adequate solutions. effective solutions can be achieved if there is direct action on traffickers at the same time as having humanitarian corridors where asylum seekers have the right to apply, without boarding boats to embark on a dangerous journey, from which traffickers make money. we need schemes that give refugees and migrants entitled to asylum the opportunity for safe and legal passage in a controlled and effective manner where international protection can be granted with a fair and equitable distribution. the international obligations that have always guided us must continue to be respected. at the same time, there is a need more than ever for the european union to be proactive and to focus more on the mediterranean region, on the need to talk and negotiate with the north african region and to work so that we may begin to see the first signs of stability in such a troubled region.
mr president, it is important that we are having this debate. we must speak out against corruption everywhere, and today we are here because we hear the people of romania and we stand with them. the eu institutions, and this parliament in particular, cannot remain silent on political corruption if we are to remain relevant to the people we represent. let me be clear. this is not about the romanian nation or the romanian people: this is about the corrupt few who are working to circumvent the law. romania’s efforts to join the european union, 10 years ago, were pushed by those who wanted a different way, who believed in europe and its value system, and who looked to europe as a way to ensure that a crooked establishment never again gripped the reins of power. europe cannot and should not abandon those who are reaffirming these ideas in the streets of bucharest and timișoara. and this is an issue that goes beyond romania. i come from malta, where our government has the dubious honour of having the only sitting eu minister, and now the eu energy council chair, whose secret financial set-ups were exposed by the panama papers. so, as you can imagine, vice-president timmermans, the fight against corruption is top of people’s concerns, at home too. strong anti-corruption policies must be a hallmark of our european union. this is about standing up for our founding principles. people across the union look to the eu institutions for leadership and direction in the fight against corruption. they cannot be met with silence, indifference or excuses. so my message here today: români, suntem cu voi! (vorbitorul a acceptat să răspundă unei întrebări adresate în conformitate cu procedura „cartonașului albastru” (articolul 162 alineatul (8) din regulamentul de procedură)).
blue-card answer. – listening to the people in this room today and looking at all the young people protesting on the streets of romania, knowing many romanian people, who have spoken to me – and even, yes, looking at the message that was just sent by the highest authorities in romania to all the email addresses of those working in this parliament – yes, i know what is happening in romania, and i am more convinced than ever of what i have just said.
on behalf of the s&d group. other in fact, the more we invest in conventional pesticide, herbicide and even chemical farming systems, without looking at biological alternatives, the more we are doing a disservice to the communities in which we live. this is because, when the use of traditional pesticides is also taken into account, there is concern about the risk to human health, the environment in which we live, the food we eat and even ecological biodiversity. so, in the face of this reality we have to promote different methods. methods based on the need to balance agricultural ecosystems, to minimise the use of harmful pesticides and to promote the use of biological alternatives. low-risk biological pesticides may be a viable solution. they can contribute to sustainable farming and give the public peace of mind. however, we must recognise that there are advantages and disadvantages in using these products and therefore that more research and innovation is needed in developing these alternatives. however, as my colleague said, the european regulatory framework and also in the member states is still hindering the promotion of these alternatives, because the issue of authorisation, the evaluation of the effectiveness of these products and the risks they may pose, and even their accessibility to the markets, have not yet been properly addressed. and so my call to the european commission is to take the necessary steps to reduce the barriers that exist to making biological products a viable alternative in our markets.
the european economy has so far shown that it is capable of registering economic growth while investing in technology and innovation to reduce pollution; and many european industries have recognised this, but others need the regulatory incentive to take this step effectively. the european economy must be based on a clean technology-driven industry where the polluter pays for the pollution they cause. where there is stability and predictability for different sectors because it is only in this way that we can have industrial sectors that remain competitive and create more jobs. the agreement we reached, by a large majority in the environment committee, reflects agreement on a progressive and balanced solution that can start helping the environment and industry. a delicate agreement where one thing binds to another and where movement on one compromise or another will have a direct impact on the final package. we must make sure that we help the industries that need help but we cannot continue to reward those who make huge profits from this system. we need to ensure a system that helps us address the climate. so we cannot support attempts to undermine what we have already agreed. since a few months ago he has been insisting on the need to tackle climate change and to ensure that the paris agreement comes into force, today he has the opportunity to implement the tools to do so without undermining the agreement reached. the agreement struck is a balance between protecting the environment, competitiveness, job creation and playing a key role in the transition to a low-carbon society for important sectors. a final call to make sure we vote for a strong and progressive position. if parliament's negotiators weaken their hand, we will now end up with a system that fails and does not achieve the objectives for which it was set up.
madam president, we always needed to make a crucial point regarding the commission’s annual competition report. competition rules, especially for state aid, should not be applied on a one-size-fits-all basis – that still holds. but during this mandate the need is arising to highlight new precautionary signals. firstly, european competition policy should avoid the appearance of a frontal contest with other administrations via the application of huge two-way fines on a tit-for-tat basis. secondly, applying state-aid rules to the tax policies of member states may help to combat tax avoidance, but it overrides the tax sovereignty that member states still have under the treaties. the flexibility of member states in setting their tax policies has to be confirmed. thirdly, there should be concern about a competition policy that is administered through an agency which defines such policy, investigates alleged breaches and itself decides on them with the power to set fines. fourthly, given the ongoing current political and economic changes in europe and beyond, competition policy needs to be kept under constant review. if europe is going to be more catholic than the pope it risks losing competitive edge on a global scale.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened very carefully to the honourable members’ views on this interesting report, promoting gender equality in mental health and clinical research. i hope that we share the very fundamental principle of equality between men and women, which was established in the treaties as one of our most important goals. the strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019 is the commission’s commitment to specific measures to promote gender equality. we are particularly grateful to this house for raising awareness of the differences between men and women in the prevalence and treatment of mental disorders and health in general. as you know, the health programme explicitly provides for the mainstreaming of gender equality in all actions promoted by the programme. thus the commission supported member states’ cooperation on mental health with a joint action on mental health and well-being under this programme. it resulted in a european framework for action on mental health and well-being. this framework addresses gender differences, highlighting for example the different prevalence of depression between men and women. a recent call under the health programme invited proposals for projects on improving access to mental health care and mental health literacy. the commission is also organising, on behalf of the parliament, a pilot project to improve the understanding of sex and gender differences in chronic diseases, using coronary heart disease as one example. we fully agree with the resolution that mental health needs to be enshrined in a holistic patient-centred approach, for example addressing the impact of cancer and other major chronic diseases on patients’ mental health. in relation to research and innovation, we need to do more to address the gender dimension as reflected in horizon 2020, the eu research and innovation programme and, in particular, the work programme and the health—related calls for proposals. over several eu research programmes the commission has founded many research projects, specifically addressing diseases affecting women, such as breast cancer, osteoporosis and endometriosis. the commission also founded several research projects under the seventh framework programme with over eur 5 million devoted to supporting endometriosis research, to which the report specifically refers. we must also continue our work to eradicate all forms of gender—based violence, including female genital mutilation. in addition, the new clinical trial regulation, which will become applicable in 2018, provides that subjects participating in a clinical trial should represent a population group likely to be treated with the medical product under investigation in the trial. this includes gender, age, and, where relevant, subjects with specific needs. a further initiative that i would like to mention here is the horizon 2020 birth day prize that was launched in 2016. the horizon birth day prize will be awarded to a solution that best demonstrates a reduction in maternal or newborn morbidity and mortality or stillbirth during facility—based deliveries. such a solution needs to be novel, safe and replicable because we need innovation here, as elsewhere. finally, a word on the under-representation of women in health research. i readily acknowledge the significance of this issue. i understand, however, that the situation is now rapidly improving and i sincerely hope that this upward trend will continue. thank you for giving me this opportunity to present the commission’s approach to promoting gender equality, including regarding mental health and health issues in general. (applause)
in writing. – when we talk about gender equality, much of our focus is often directed at emancipating women in civil, political and economic society. and while much of the focus on the detrimental effects of patriarchal societies is targeted towards women, one serious issue targets men – the issue of suicide and mental health. if we raise our young men in societies where they are told that ‘boys don’t cry’, that they should be strong as opposed to weak, and stoic as opposed to emotive, then we will continue to perpetuate the stigmatisation of mental health. but while such ideals may be well intentioned, the phenomena has led to a major difference in suicide rates between men and women. in general, the rate for males is five times higher, and in some eu countries alone the differentiation between genders can lead to a figure of 52 males per 100 000 persons to 8 females per 100 000. this is a highly worrying phenomenon, and if even we as european leaders shy away from the topic, then we will continue to perpetuate the stigma within our own societies.
in writing. – while having every respect for the competence and dedication of the rapporteurs, i consider the exercise that they undertook to define the parameters of a budgetary capacity for the eurozone as technically interesting but politically premature. the fundamental problem facing the eurozone is not its design, though this needs to be considered; it is the lack of a political will to accept that the growing divergences within the eurozone have to be first of all recognised and corrected through a new political agreement. divergences have resulted, and are growing, due to a too fast and blinkered development of the eurozone project, on the back of the eu’s soft power and in disregard of the impact of globalisation. eurozone rules automatically advantage the stronger members to the detriment of the weaker. such a situation can only be corrected though political action, not through the addition of new rules to the system. though technically insightful, the budgetary capacity additions being proposed will indeed serve to enhance divergences, not reduce them, in the absence of a new political agreement. unfortunately, the current exercise amounts to one in which the cart is being put before the horse. i cannot support it.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members. terrorism creates havoc. it takes away lives and leaves those of us who live on scarred forever. in the last 18 months, in particular, we have seen too many attacks and far too many victims. at the same time, the terrorist threat has continued to change and evolve. it is more than ever present and more indiscriminate. that is why i think we should be proud that, together, we have been able to reach this point on this very important piece of legislation. i would like to thank the council for the work they have done, and, in particular, the parliament and the rapporteur, ms hohlmeier, for their commitment and the effort made to review this counter-terrorism directive. it will contribute greatly to the effective work done by law enforcement authorities and prosecutors in countering the terrorist threat, and this will contribute to making our lives safer, without compromising our values, which are the very same values that the terrorists seek to harm. fundamental rights are and must remain at the heart of our action. as ms hohlmeier said, with this piece of legislation we are also aligning the eu definitions of terrorist offences with the standards agreed under the council of europe convention on terrorism. let me highlight very briefly the main elements of the text. first, it will criminalise travel for the purposes of terrorism. not only will it be a crime to travel from the eu to conflict zones to participate in terrorist activities but also, thanks to the support of people in this house, it will cover those coming to the eu with terrorist intent, including terrorist fighters. second, an efficient exchange of information is key to combating the terrorist threat. the new rules will strengthen the obligation to exchange information and will make the member state receiving information responsible for taking appropriate action. last, but by no means least, the new law will make a real difference for victims. it builds on existing rules, reinforcing in particular the immediate and coordinated nature of the response to victims of a terrorist attack, including legal aid and medical treatment. it also strengthens the rights of cross-border victims, who will get help with information and referrals to relevant services. i am happy to say that this piece of legislation shows that the eu is able to act in a swift and united manner. the political agreement on the directive was reached in less than a year. now, we need to make sure that implementation follows with the same speed the commission is ready to support the member states in this task and will organise transposition workshops in the coming months. let me conclude, mr president, by saying it is clear that an effective response to terrorism is a complex and challenging process, which includes the fight against radicalisation as well as the efficient exchange of information between all relevant parties. that is why i would like to reiterate the commission’s support for the joint statement by the three eu institutions which accompanies the agreement on this directive, expressing commitment to take forward action in all of those fields. i am also glad that, later this afternoon, we are going to have the opportunity to discuss in more depth the crucial issues of information exchange and interoperability.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the terrorist attacks in europe that we have witnessed in the last years shocked us all, but our grief and our anger gave way to a grim resolve to counter the terrorist threat and to address both the immediate danger of more attacks and the causes of radicalisation that plague our societies. the attacks on our soil were no random attacks. paris, nice, brussels, berlin, were all targeted because these cities are the very embodiment of what europe stands for. they were planned to strike the maximum amount of panic into all of us and designed to make us feel unsafe doing the things we always do, and living the lives that we want to live. they failed because fear did not define us, but determination did. and with this report we are going some way in ensuring that our systems adapt to the reality under which we find ourselves and ensure that we remain one step ahead of criminals and terrorists while respecting the values we cherish in europe. we are coming down harder on those so-called foreign fighters, eu nationals who travel to conflict zones only to return radicalised and recruit more people for their murderous cause. we are pushing forward concrete plans for better cooperation between member states, and we come down on hate preachers or anyone who incites terrorism. crucially, the report also lays down provisions that will allow victims of terrorism to receive all and whatever assistance they may require. finally, allow me to thank the rapporteur for her very excellent work in pushing this file through, and urge you all to vote in favour of the report tomorrow so that we can send the strongest possible signal to our citizens.
today the world is facing very aggressive terrorist organisations whose aim is to kill, to undermine modern and democratic societies, to threaten life, freedom, equality and fraternity, but above all to spread fear. terrorist organisations are becoming transnational, well organised logistically, with the aim of disrupting the normal functioning of our society. i must say, to some extent they succeeded! after the terrorist attacks last year, people in a number of european countries are devastated and no longer feel safe in their own countries. it is therefore not surprising that more than 80% of european citizens feel that the fight against terrorism and radicalisation should be the first priority for europe, and believe that common action by the european union is needed to combat terrorism. it is time to realise that we have too much to lose and that inaction is not an option! we must therefore reinforce actions to cover all aspects of terrorism, from prevention to protection and prosecution.
madam president, we are facing security challenges that are unprecedented. we must have modern legislation in place to respond to new and evolving threats. controls at external borders are key to ensuring proper freedom of movement and security within the schengen area because, in our opinion, one simply cannot exist without the other. having systematic checks for persons enjoying the right of free movement across external land, sea and air borders is necessary and it is being required. in recent years, europe has learned some very difficult lessons. as we have seen, the phenomenon of foreign fighters continues to plague our communities. we cannot allow terrorists to hide behind the protection afforded to them by their european passports. the reinforcement of checks will make it easier for our law enforcement agencies to identify those people at the border. with islamic state losing ground in its traditional strongholds, it is becoming more likely that more of the approximately 5 000 foreign fighters in conflict zones will attempt to return to europe. the measures being proposed are a clear and important response in terms of keeping our citizens safe. we simply must know whether people coming or going pose a threat to our internal security. we must have more security on our external borders while ensuring that our controls are efficient and secure. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked so hard on this proposal and i hope that tomorrow’s vote will mean one more step, maybe a small step but an important step for our citizens’ security. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question. well, i agree with your last point, that we should not be spreading fear, and i think that having necessary and proportionate responses to the very threats that are creating insecurity amongst our citizens would be one way of doing that. and i really believe, yes, that politicians, who would like to send a very strong message in order for our citizens – who vote for us to be in these positions – to feel safer, that we should be the ones to respond. not with hysteria, not with far and extreme populism, but in order to send a very necessary and proportionate response. i believe that, if done properly, without hysteria, then with this proposal and this assertion we can actually send the message that our citizens would like to receive.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, working on this report has brought me in touch with several people who are passionate about using robotics to address daily challenges and to continue to increase knowledge of our world. we should be proud of this european industry and we should give it a reliable european framework within which it can continue to grow. robotics and connectivity go beyond borders: innovation is carried out by experts from several member states working together. this collaboration requires our support. the report starts a debate on robotics and brings to the fore different possibilities and solutions. the report is prescriptive only on one element: robots are not human; no matter how autonomous and self-learning they become, they do not attain the characteristics of a living human. our work discusses solutions to liability for damages caused by robots. who will be responsible? how will any legal solution affect the development of robotics, those who own them, and victims of the damage? the current legal framework on liability may not entirely work for robotics, so we need to consider the impact of different solutions to make sure that harm caused to persons and to our environment will be addressed. ethical considerations also need to be made, so we can set an ethical framework within which robotics will develop. in all of this we have to understand how robotisation of industry and professions will affect our workers and our professionals, and find ways to provide the right skills and support. allow me also to thank ms delvaux and all the rapporteurs who have worked on this report. i think that together we have managed to produce a report which deserves a plenary vote in favour.
in writing. – it might make sense to open the discussion about the future of europe with a discussion about its past, its history. frequently i get the feeling, in this parliament and elsewhere, that such discussions too often take exclusively an ideological perspective – that of pilgrims intent on reaching the new jerusalem. moreover they get bound to technocratic approaches that are grounded in neo-liberalism. even the social dimension, when it is included, gets relegated to a policy chapter, calibrated in positivist terms. perhaps what we need is a self-critical, historical review of what the european project has been, set in a framework of the realities of european history since the french revolution. perhaps what we need is an acknowledgement and examination of the failures as well as the achievements of the european project over the last sixty years – seen not in contingent terms but as strategic responses undertaken in historical time. these need to be reinforced if their outcome was good for the european peoples, and reversed where they have been mistaken. decisions about the future of europe must be built on an honest, critical assessment of our recent past. unfortunately, this terrain has been abandoned to populists and demagogues.
in writing. – when historians look back at the migration crisis, there will be many things that they will say europe should have done differently. fifty per cent of all children who arrive at reception centres in europe go missing, the majority of them lost within the first 48 hours of arrival. these minors, who have very often been separated intentionally from their family members by traffickers, are often subjected to kidnapping, sexual exploitation, slavery, the tracking of organs, prostitution and even forced drug smuggling. this is not the life for a child. this has resulted in one of the largest atrocities of this migration crisis and it cannot continue to go ignored. but with only four member states having legal or procedural regulations on missing migrant children, we still have a long way to go. i can think of no greater need for children, than the need for protection. and these children, like all children, deserve it too.
member of the commission. – madam president, freedom of movement is one of the basic rights of eu citizens and the european commission will continue to defend it as a top priority. the correct application of eu rules on free movement by all member states is of fundamental importance – correct application by all member states. and for as long as the uk remains a member state, all rights and obligations continue to apply. i am fully aware that eu citizens living in the united kingdom are concerned about their future rights; eu citizens residing in the united kingdom deserve to know what their rights will be in the uk after the uk leaves the european union and, vice versa, the same applies to uk citizens residing in the other 27 member states. the authors of the oral question are absolutely right: people need certainty and stability and they deserve respect and fairness. that is why i hope that this issue can be addressed as soon as possible. however, it is first for the uk to give effect to the outcome of the referendum vote. there can be no negotiation before notification, as you know. it is therefore not possible to be more precise at this stage. let me now refer to the individual questions. on the first question, concerning the statistics on the number of residence applications, residence refusals and expulsions from the uk, the commission does not have up-to-date statistics on this matter. eu law on free movement of eu citizens does not oblige member states to collect such data and share them with the commission. some data on numbers of issued residence documents are in the public domain, but there is little data on refused applications, and there is almost no publicly available data on expulsions and appeal rates. ever since the entry into force of the free movement directive in 2006, the commission has been working closely together with member states to improve their ability to collect statistical data and share it. unfortunately, progress is limited due to a lack of commitment on the part of member states. with regard to the infringement procedures, i would like to underline that the commission takes appropriate action to address failures of any member state to comply with their obligations under eu law. there are currently infringement procedures in this area against eight member states. the two pending infringement procedures against the united kingdom relate to access residence rights of economically non-active citizens, and rights of uk nationals returning to the united kingdom after residing in another member state. i would like to inform you that the commission is assessing these cases carefully. as regards the residence rights of economically non-active citizens, the commission will take into account in its assessment the recent case law of the court of justice concerning the conditions to which member states can subject the access to welfare benefits by economically non-active eu citizens in order to protect public finances. please allow me to underline that the commission is also carefully assessing the compliance with the provisions of the free movement directive of the latest amendments to the uk legislation that came into force in february 2017. with regard to your last question, the commission attaches great importance to providing guidance to member states in order to prevent breaches of eu law. therefore, since the free movement directive entered into force, the commission adopted five official guidance documents: in 2008, the report on the application of the directive; in 2009, guidelines for better transposition and application of the directive; in 2010, the handbook for the processing of visa applications; in 2013, the report on free movement and in 2014, the handbook on marriages of convenience. in addition to official guidance, the commission has met experts from member states twenty-four times in an expert group dedicated to the application of the free movement directive. these meetings are a useful tool to communicate the commission’s interpretation on issues of practical application of eu law. last but not least, i would like to inform you that a few weeks ago, the commission has made available an e-tool on free movement for national administration, together with its citizenship report issued by the commission in january 2017. the citizenship report sets out a number of actions to raise citizens’ awareness of their rights and how to seek help if their rights are not respected.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, free movement is one of the cornerstones of our european project and we need to be vigilant in order to ensure that there are no unnecessary limitations to it by any member state. the ‘sufficient resources’ argument is one that requires constant monitoring and, while it is fair that eu migration does not become a burden on the host state, this principle should not be abused by member states, nor should it be used, as my colleagues have said, as a bargaining chip. the uk remains a member state of the eu and the commission must insist that, until the moment it is not, any and all existing eu acquis needs to be respected, implemented and properly applied. in this respect, it is crucial that the commission provides member states, including the united kingdom, with proper guidance to ensure the correct application of the free movement directive and protect the rights of eu citizens. this is an issue that is so personal for so many people. i have met countless maltese citizens who live and work in the united kingdom, and many uk nationals who live in my constituency of malta and gozo. they are worried. they are concerned that the life they have spent decades building is suddenly uncertain, they are anxious that after years of abiding by the law, working and paying taxes, they read reports that make them apprehensive. they should not be made to feel targeted. their rights must be clarified sooner rather than later.
mr president, europe is undergoing challenging times. in the current political season, with elections to be held in various eu countries, the growing eurosceptic sentiments are creating deep divisions and social polarisation, threatening the very foundations and the very existence of the european project. the european union needs to reconnect with its citizens, putting them back at the heart of its agenda. encouraging civic participation and enhancing people’s understanding of the history and diversity of the union has never been as important for the future of europe as it is today. this is the litmus test that europe cannot fail. that is why i support this report and its very symbolic – and the first of its kind – programme, europe for citizens, which aims to bring the european union closer to its citizens. the programme has reached more than seven million citizens in thousands of towns and cities around europe, helping them to better understand the european union, promoting the union’s ideals and values, and improving the conditions for direct civic and democratic participation and active dialogue between the eu and its citizens. the programme provides a unique opportunity to strengthen a sense of european citizenship and belonging, and enhances solidarity and mutual understanding. active citizenship, education and intercultural dialogue are paramount to the building of an open and inclusive society. this programme is one of the key instruments to achieve this. despite its success, we need constantly to reinforce the programme and increase its budget, projects and goals. member states also need to get actively involved and support the programme, further raising its profile by making people more aware of it. it is important that the programme focuses not only on the past, but also on the future and on current challenges such as migration, radicalisation and social inclusion, among others. i hope that the commission and the member states will implement the recommendations of this report, which will help to reinforce the programme.
member of the commission. – it was not assessed by the impact assessment board.
in writing. – ensuring the security of our citizens whilst also respecting their fundamental freedoms is the balance that we need to reach. this balanced approach must be adopted at all levels to ensure europe does not become an orwellian security state. this is why our efforts as policy-makers must be targeted towards ensuring that those citizens who obey the law are not targeted unnecessarily. the commission’s firearms was putting into jeopardy the rights of licensed arms collectors, museums, hunters and sport shooters who are often scrutinised to the highest standards within our individual member states. this is why i welcome the text as negotiated in trilogues as it removes the association between such persons and terrorism whilst safeguarding european citizens from semi-automatic and automatic rifles, which fire 20 rounds or more and are not stereotypically used for traditional activities. at the same time it ensures that activities that are ingrained within the culture and heritage of many of our member states, such as traditional hunting activities and sport shooting, are safeguarded. the eu has a large task ahead to safeguard citizen’s fundamental right to security, and this should be done in line with our citizens’ fundamental rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – first and foremost, i would like to start by saying thank you not only to simona bonafè, our s&d rapporteur, but also to all the shadow rapporteurs, who managed to help make the circular economy package achievable for our consumers, our smes, our big businesses and governments alike. the way forward is to integrate resource efficiency in the way we do business. what we are speaking about today is not only the environment or the economy – we are also managing to bridge the gap and bring both of them together. we need to arrive at a point where the waste of one business becomes the resource of another; where the output of one industry becomes the input of another. the resources we have out there are all we have; they are finite. this is the reason why we cannot continue building an economy that uses things up and creates waste. we need an economy that uses and reuses things. this is our chance to inspire young people, who see new openings where others see challenges. this is their opportunity to be creative and innovative, and to help rebuild an entire system that actually works. the transformation required will not come about through legislation alone. we need smart regulation, together with market-based instruments, innovation and incentives. investors need a clear and positive signal and regulatory certainty, because this in turn will help create jobs. it has been said today that success will be measured by how well these policies are implemented in our member states, because ultimately it is only through smart implementation that we can ensure that the decisions we make today will have a positive impact on what is left for tomorrow.
mr president, we are celebrating 60 years of a success story. we had challenges, some of which we were prepared for, others of which we were not. we had a europe based on important values, values such as democracy, freedom, justice, solidarity, social justice, equality and important values, the right ones. we had a europe built on these values then that our people, now european, are telling us that you need to guarantee these values, and it is our duty, as berès said, to do everything we can at this moment to ensure that our citizens can have these rights without any hindrance from anyone. i very much agree that we must also fight against corruption, against the abuse of power and i also agree with what the deputy prime minister of malta said that we must do our utmost to see that the rule of law is strengthened. i agree with you, but minister, we must not only say this but practice it always and everywhere. so if i do and say what the president of the commission said, that we want a people's europe, then let us listen to the people, and the people want us, the european citizens want us to do our utmost as meps, as council, as commission to ensure that these values are not taken away from the european people themselves.
president tusk, vice-premier grech, yes we need a europe of the people, a europe of the political people who really feel the pulse of the people. politicians who do not change the principles they say they believe in to suit their own interests. because this european union needs a policy that really makes a difference and tackles the challenges faced by citizens in our towns and villages across all member states. and a small state like malta, which currently holds the presidency, understands this very well. the need for the european union to speak the language of the people. the need to push forward the social agenda, to push forward social reforms that really make a difference in the lives of our families, our workers, our elderly, our young and our children. the need to secure a future of peace, of prosperity, of sustainability, of a better quality of life for our citizens. we need concrete initiatives that can offer european solutions to the challenges faced by our citizens. and that is the europe i want to see. a europe that does not forget the most vulnerable. a europe that makes sure to increase the confidence that citizens feel in the european union, which is not, after all, an institution far from them but the countries that represent them.
in writing. – in the first 30 years of its existence, the eu achieved most of its aims, especially that of securing peace in western europe through economic integration. in its second 30 years, the eu went for enlargement and deepening. this has led to stagnation and semi-paralysis. the new structures of unity and control that were created have proven unable to cope with political, economic and demographic turmoil. now, millions of people in the eu feel completely disconnected with – or hostile to – the european project. their expectations of ever increasing security and wellbeing were undermined by austerity and by policies that fail to respond to their life priorities. meanwhile, economic and social divergences within the union have grown. the rome declaration should recognise this reality, not simply recast the rhetoric that made sense in the first half of the union’s existence to europe’s present and future challenges. internally, the european project has become a transfer union that follows the pulls and pushes of neoliberal guidelines. a new, huge political effort of consolidation must first be undertaken to correct the existing regional and national imbalances. only then would the eu be able to regain the momentum of its first 30 years.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i was at a meeting in the european parliament in my colleague alain lamassoure’s office when the bombs went off in brussels almost one year ago. anyone who, like many of us here, thinks of brussels as a home from home, will never forget the moments of panic, of anger, of helplessness and of grief for the victims of those attacks. but since the horrific events of last year, our shock has given way to a grim resolve to counter this terrorist threat and to address both the immediate danger of more attacks and the causes of radicalisation that plague our societies. nothing is more important to our citizens than the basic right for them to feel safe doing the things that they have always done and living the lives that they choose. freedom and security are not simple buzzwords that look good on our twitter feed or in press releases. they are the very core concepts that underpin our way of life, because without them, there can be nothing else. we must do everything we can to keep europe safe. we can look to the citizens we represent and we can be proud of the work we have done so far to boost the fight against terrorism. but it must continue. and that is why it is so important for the epp that we are having this debate today. keeping europe safer is at the top of our agenda and will remain there. now in this parliament we have worked hard to speed up efforts on common eu rules on better information about passengers travelling from and to the eu with our pnr system. we have introduced systematic checks at our external borders. we have pushed forward strategies against radicalisation, against those who preach hate and incite terror. we have gone after the money and tackled terrorism financing and, crucially, we have moved forward towards better support for the victims of terrorism. terrorism leaves so many hidden victims that its mark stains for generations. we have to give those people a voice, support to return to life, and we have to remember those we have lost. we have done a lot, but there is much, much more that needs to be done if we are to continue to address people’s security concerns in europe. we will not cease in our efforts until we secure a europe that is safer. information-sharing between member states must be improved and we have to ensure that our law enforcement agencies have all the tools and the resources that they need to respond and to remain one step ahead of the terrorists and their networks. our it systems must be able to operate in tandem with each other, and we need to look at what law enforcement controls need improving. prevention and prosecution of criminal behaviour must be made more efficient by having a fully-functioning eu criminal record system in place, and at the same time it is essential that we have a coordinated approach to stop the trafficking of illegal arms so often used by terrorists during terrorist attacks in europe. we need to improve our use of biometric data. the loopholes that were exposed by the berlin attacker, for example, who had 14 different identities, must be closed. the eu is not alone in its fight, because terrorism is a global threat that requires a global response. cooperation with third countries in listing and implementing anti-terror measures needs to remain on the eu’s agenda, and i am convinced that we will get there. but it is true that apprehension remains. my children still get scared when they realise that we still need soldiers outside many public events, and it is true that every time we hear a police siren, a part of us goes back to that fateful day a year ago. but the people of europe will not cower. our way of life will go on despite the fear that we must all sometimes feel. i shall conclude. when our continent came under attack we did not shy away from the challenge. we identified where we need to do more. we stood up and we gave a european response. our fear did not define us: determination did, and it will continue to do so. (applause)
in writing. – on 22 march, we will be commemorating the first anniversary of the brussels attacks, which are still so vivid in our memories. we remember and honour those who died unnecessarily – innocent citizens. we remember and recognise the suffering of their families, and the survivors of the attacks. the world is facing extremely aggressive terrorist organisations dedicated to killing people, disseminating fear, undermining democratic modern societies and threatening peoples’ lives, liberty, equality and fraternity. terrorist organisations are becoming more trans-national, logistically well organised and well-funded, designed to instil fear and disrupt the normal functioning of our society. and i have to say that to a certain degree they have succeeded. after last year’s terrorist attacks in different european countries, people are petrified and no longer able to feel safe in their own country. therefore, it came as no surprise to me that more than 80% of european citizens have chosen the fight against terrorism and radicalisation as europe’s number one top priority, believing that more common eu action is required in the fight against terrorism. we need to reinforce actions and measures at european and national levels to cover every aspect of this hideous crime, from prevention to protection and prosecution.
madam president, i would like to start by saying thank you to kateřina konečná as rapporteur for her work on this report and also to our s&d shadow, paul brannen, because whilst progress has been registered in international, european and national policies and in the regulatory framework, and whilst various commitments have been made from political, financial and industry leaders, we still need to work harder to make sure that the business of clearing out forests for palm oil and timber plantation, of robbing indigenous people and invading the land and resources, will no longer be considered business as usual. sustainable policies addressing deforestation can stimulate economic growth and development. they can encourage agricultural productivity and reduce social conflict. they can be a win for our climate, for inclusive development, for economic growth, and for small-scale farmers and indigenous people alike. but we need to act together. only if we all do our part can we achieve these benefits. this is an appeal to promote forest protection as a new way of doing business and not as a threat to business. we require measures that are environmentally sustainable, measures that are socially responsible. ultimately, it is our responsibility to support sustainable production and provide eu consumers with a choice based on informed decisions. accepting palm oil from sustainable sourcing is our obligation if we want to address deforestation and prevent extinction of threatened species.
i am of the opinion that parliament should seize this opportunity to address a law which has now left several legal loopholes to the detriment of the environment, to the detriment of european consumers, but also to the detriment of the health of citizens. and this particular law that my political group has worked tirelessly on is an opportunity to prevent any more loopholes from undermining the objective we want to achieve. it is an opportunity to prevent the volkswagen scandal from recurring. but to do this, we need independent oversight that can take the form of an agency. we need to see that consumers are compensated when they do not get what they paid for. the reality is that the volume of vehicles will continue to increase; however, this must not be done at the expense of the environment, because the world we live in is changing at a rapid pace and we need to do much more to keep up. now is the time to turn the work we have done into results.
the volkswagen scandal alarmed european consumers, giving them the impression that confidence in a system that facilitated fraud and deception by uncovering loopholes and deceiving millions of consumers was weak and unprotected. more worryingly, this fraudulent practice has not been detected by the european union, despite the fact that we probably have one of the best consumer protection legislation. this is precisely why it is so difficult, in this particular case, to admit to ourselves that europe has failed to protect its citizens and consumers. europe has not succeeded in making cars in europe as clean energy efficient on the roads as they are in the laboratories. however, today we have an opportunity to fix all this by adopting stronger rules that will remain valid for the future and improve the current situation and provide a level playing field in the car industry. i therefore urge you, when you vote today, to remember that the health, safety and trust of citizens in the system and in our ability to create rules to protect them are at stake in this issue.
mr president, it has been a very long journey but, after four years, here we are and, yes, it is a good day. i would like to congratulate glenis willmott – i know you had a big task ahead of you, but you managed to do a great a job – and also our colleague, peter liese, and our shadow, biljana borzan, because together you managed to build on the spirit of compromise and really put at the heart of the policies you worked on our patients’ safety first and foremost. i am really glad also to see such a large attendance by the public in the galleries today because this field we are speaking about and discussing is diverse, competitive and highly innovative. it is an area of great promise – sometimes spectacular promise – but it can also be an area of a number of pitfalls. devices are routinely implanted in our bodies. they replace limbs, bones, tissues and sometimes entire organs, but medical and diagnostic devices, when well designed, well made and properly used, can improve our quality of life and can save lives. if not, they can threaten and impair it. as the directly—elected representatives of our citizens, it is our mission to make sure that patients in the eu can access safe, effective and high—quality medical devices and diagnostics, and that they have timely access to medical technologies that will really help them. we are living in a digital era where we need to be proactive and anticipate innovation. our regulatory framework needs to be prepared for the type of technology that will come our way. it needs to help foster innovation and the development of life—saving and life—enhancing equipment. so yes, these pieces of legislation are a good example of how we can improve patient safety, and i look forward to parliament building further on this spirit so as to ensure the highest level of patient safety throughout the eu, but maybe at a more rapid speed.
the united kingdom is an important partner for the european union and for malta. the uk will remain an important partner. but it is disappointing for us that the united kingdom has chosen not to remain a member of the european union. but we must bear in mind that strong ties will remain even after the uk leaves the european union. and therefore we cannot enter into negotiations with a certain confrontational attitude. we now have to try and see how best to create the conditions between the european union and a third country with which we have good relations. however, the united kingdom has to make certain sacrifices. he cannot expect privileges without the responsibilities that come with them. this means that we must follow certain principles. the time for being selective and choosing only what suits us is now past. the united kingdom must pay what is owed this is a mandatory condition for negotiations to be possible. above all we must keep in mind the human element which is the most crucial. it is a priority to give millions of european and british citizens on both sides our full protection of themselves and their rights. i am convinced that we can find the necessary compromise.
in fact, today in this debate many are arguing that freedom of expression is a fundamental and supreme right, and on this yes: i agree; but freedom of expression is not an infinite right. freedom of expression ceases to be a fundamental right when trans or gay youth are attacked in a way that leads them to commit suicide; the moment domestic violence becomes the subject of a coarse joke, it ceases to be a right. it's no longer the right moment to incite people to kill someone because of their political beliefs. freedom of speech encourages debate while hate speech incites violence, because yes: words make a big difference. hate speech online and offline attacks the very heart of our democracies. governments, civil society and the internet industry must work together to educate, raise awareness, protect victims and ensure that those who speak these words are punished. let us not turn a blind eye to intolerance and hate speech because that is the moment when people stop caring and hatred becomes the order of the day.
in writing. – the liberal value system prevailing in western europe since the end of world war ii has created a tolerant, open society that allows diversity, freedom of thought and speech and respect for human rights to flourish among us. however, if not in crisis, this value system is straining to cope with the ethical and social tensions generated, inter alia, by technological innovation, especially in the communications field, intercultural disparities within societies, immigration, terrorism and rising social inequalities. in responding to these tensions, we need to update the expression of our values to make them consistent with the times, while enhancing europe’s tolerant and liberal profile. for instance, when does the right to offend, which we recognise, become equivalent to hate speech? under what conditions does the full observance of traditional religious customs contradict liberal practices? what justification can be advanced for rigid surveillance of internet traffic, including its ‘censorship’ in order to combat, say, ‘fake news’? to what extent should an individual’s right to privacy prevail over surveillance measures intended to address concerns about internet and other criminal activity, such as tax fraud and hate speech? we do not have clear-cut, satisfactory replies to such questions.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the commission warmly welcomes the political agreement achieved by the co-legislators at the end of january. it is a great achievement that will have an immediate positive impact on the lives of millions of europeans from 15 june this year. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms miapetra kumpula-natri, and all honourable members of parliament who were involved in this work. this is the result of more than 10 years of regulatory effort by the eu institutions. during this time, several of you played key roles in reducing roaming prices in the european union from extremely high levels. two years ago, ms pilar del castillo led critical negotiations from which the decision emerged for full abolition of roaming charges while travelling in the european union. several additional steps had to be taken for this to become a reality. the main step was to reduce wholesale roaming prices. without this, many operators would not have been able to eliminate roaming charges without increasing their domestic prices. this was technically complicated and involved finding an adequate political balance. the new caps on wholesale roaming prices agreed with the council – and on which you will vote tomorrow – will allow operators to provide roaming at the domestic price. at the same time, they will ensure that the networks visited can recover their wholesale costs. in addition, as you know, the commission delivered the implementing regulation on fair use policy in time last year on 15 december, after a lively debate with stakeholders, member states and members of this house. thanks to all our efforts together, the ‘roam-like-at-home’ system is now fully designed and predictable. we have shown people across europe that the eu institutions can deliver, also in difficult times. the widespread positive media reaction reflects that. with this deal, we should not forget that we have achieved a much more vibrant digital single market. it brings many new possibilities that will benefit all of us, if they are used properly. the commission therefore strongly urges the european parliament to adopt the new regulation on wholesale roaming markets.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, miapetra kumpula-natri, and the maltese presidency for reaching an agreement on the wholesale roaming markets. the rules agreed were significantly lower caps, designed to allow mobile phone operators to offer free roaming to their customers without increasing domestic prices at home. the caps will also have a direct impact on how much mobile data a consumer can use when abroad. the lower the cap, the larger the amount of data. this was the last stumbling block standing in the way of ending roaming charges as of 15 june of this year. this was the last, but definitely not the least. the pieces of the puzzle leading to meet the 15 june deadline to abolish roaming charges are now all in place. in two months, people travelling across europe will pay no more extra costs for using their phones. soon, roaming charges will be a thing of the past, and people will not even remember their existence. it is satisfying indeed that europe has managed to deliver on its promise to abolish roaming charges. this is the end of a very long battle for the parliament, which started almost six years ago, a battle which was faced with a lot of opposition from different sides. this is why it is an honour for me to have been part of this battle and, in particular, part of the s&d team, who not only started it but followed it right through to the very end, until today’s success story. however, for me, the fight is not over. and now it is time to push for the next step: to make intra—eu calls non-discriminatory with the same prices for domestic and cross-border calls and sms, so that consumers will be able to do business and speak with friends and colleagues living in another country without worrying about excessive bills at the end of each month.
i would like to start immediately by congratulating the rapporteur, mr miapetra kumpula- i am aware of the hard work that went into reaching this agreement. but this is a big step forward because the agreement reached on roaming leagues was an interesting challenge at a time of great activity for the european union. and many were actually sceptical about how the european union would achieve results in such important aspects for its citizens. and today, i am proud to say that the european parliament, the european commission and even the maltese presidency have managed to achieve results. because the european union has shown that it is still relevant to its citizens, and while others are building walls around it, we are succeeding in removing more of the barriers that have been dividing us. it took nine years to reach a final political agreement, but finally, roaming charges are a thing of the past. and with the removal of these tariffs, we have a more connected europe than we had yesterday, and this should be the way forward on other key issues as well.
mr president, member state representatives come here to stand up for their policies. that is their prerogative, but mine is to stand up for the europe i believe in. the european union is not a ‘pick and choose’ entity. it is a collection of states that share the same intrinsic value system and that believe in sincere cooperation with each other. when higher education institutes are targeted and vast sums are spent on disingenuous campaigns to stop brussels, this runs contrary to the values we believe in. pandering to populists at the very time when the world needs the opposite is not our way. i am a proud member of the epp. we believe in a europe of freedom of thought and freedom of speech. we will always defend those values whenever and wherever they are under threat, whether it is the corruption of the socialist government in malta, the watering down of the rule of law in romania, institutions under pressure in poland, or what is happening in hungary. this is what we stand for. our values have stood the test of time and they are not up for negotiation – not now and not ever.
today we have before us a document that will continue to help us build a more social europe. i agree that, however, for this exercise to be successful, we need a joint effort between all the european institutions, the member states, the social partners and all those with a particular interest in this area. people are expecting us to act and work on legislation that will have a positive impact on their daily lives, and to seek to build a fairer europe by strengthening its social dimension, and this may be the right time to act on this type of policy. we need to improve and protect, yes, social benefits and competitiveness, which continually adapt to a rapidly changing world - particular cases are the types of jobs we are offering in europe that are already very prevalent in european member countries. we must ultimately aim for a triple a rating in social policy, and so we can do this by leaving no one out of this important debate we have between us, because the more involved we are in this process, the more successful we will be in this policy we are trying to build together.
in writing. – the ongoing thrust to put social concerns at the heart of the european project is welcome if belated. since 2008, the eu has increasingly focused on the task of reinforcing its economic structures, no matter what the human and social cost. this has fed populist and extremist ideologies. making the social pillar meaningful is going to be hard. it will need to go beyond collating pan-european policies and setting them up as remote signposts for future implementation. what has happened with the social goals set for 2020 should serve as a warning. expectations should not be inflated beyond what can be attained. within set priorities, resources must be mobilised to really implement goals. then, there is the challenge of facing up to the way by which under eu rules, economies and public budgets react to downturns. especially in the eurozone, the major policy tool is internal devaluation. as experience has shown, this undermines social cohesion, creates hardship and at best brings about a slow recovery that leaves people with a lower standard of living to what they were used to previously. will the social pillar be robust enough to counter the effects of internal devaluations in european societies?
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate shows once more how pivotal the need for an adequate protection of the union’s financial interests is. it also indicates that continuous improvements and enhancements are necessary to bring the fight against fraud and irregularities in line with the expectations of the european citizens. please rest assured that the commission is fully committed to continue to strengthen the protection of the european union’s financial interests and to reinforce our efforts in this area. to ensure the european budget is delivering its optimal impact and value for money, the commission and the member states have the duty to make every effort to prevent public money from being defrauded. on your question or your statement that the total number of irregularities detected by the commission and the member states is rising again and what the reason is for this, i can only tell you that there is no straight answer to this question. identifying the main reasons behind increases and decreases in the number of irregularities is always, as you know, a complex exercise. several factors may contribute to this. in relation to 2015, increased spending, changes in control strategies and delayed reporting have played a role. i kindly refer you to certain paragraphs in the pif report about this. on fraudulent irregularities, there we see that the number of fraudulent irregularities has been decreasing. i want to tell you here that interpreting the true meaning of the fluctuations in the number of this kind of irregularities reported and in their related financial value is always difficult and could easily be misleading. as observers we tend to associate the positive judgment to decreases and the negative one to increases of detected fraudulent activities. however, we should never forget that we are looking at the member states’ capacity to prevent and detect fraud. it is the detection efficiency of member states that counts. of course, as many of you said money lost due to fraud is money we could use better, we could invest it in useful projects. but we also should know that reporting of irregularities does not always mean that the budget lost the amounts. member states and the commission often recover the amounts. let us not forget that. and then, of course, we recognise that there is a conflict of interests. but let me tell you that we also addressed this conflict of interest among other things in the public procurement directive of 2014, where the definition of conflict of interest is introduced, and i can also tell you that the commission prepared guidelines with member state experts on conflict of interests. one member asked me why the commission decided to discontinue the anti-corruption report. well, an effective fight against corruption within the european union remains essential, delivered through the right vehicle. fighting corruption has become a key element of the european semester process. i want to underline that the commission will take up anti-corruption matters in the context of its main economic policy dialogue between the member states and the european institutions. this is in line with the general approach of this commission to streamline processes and focus on key issues in the relevant fora. there was also a question on whistle-blowers and about the state of play on initiatives of the commission on the protection of whistle-blowers. there i can tell you that the commission is assessing the feasibility and the scope for european action to strengthen the protection of whistle-blowers. dg just is carrying out an impact assessment, has launched a public consultation in march and is about to launch a targeted consultation. the commission should decide in july of this year what action to propose before the end of the year, before december. despite my efforts i have probably not addressed completely certain specific or certain technical issues in my introduction or in my reply to your questions, but i can tell you that commissioner oettinger will meet the rapporteur, ms pitera, at the beginning of june in order to continue the discussion on how to improve further the protection of the european union’s financial interests. thank you for your attention and i can tell you that the commission counts on the european parliament’s continuous support.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you ms ulvskog, let me start by welcoming your engagement and contribution to our work on the new skills agenda for europe. i know that you are currently working on a report on the skills agenda and i look forward to reading this. your question today on the european qualifications framework (eqf) comes at the right moment, as in one week’s time the council will adopt the new eqf recommendation. let me now address the issues raised in your question. firstly, i want to stress that the eqf is a success story. in the almost 10 years since it was established it has helped to make qualifications more transparent and therefore more comparable across europe. twenty-four of our member states have national qualification frameworks in place and have completed the referencing process of eqf. others will follow this year. citizens across europe are already benefiting from the eqf level on their diplomas and certificates. this makes it easier for their qualifications to be understood in other member states. this is why phase 2 of the eqf represents an evolution, and not a revolution. compared to the 2008 text the eight qualification levels remain unchanged. the key principle remains: this is a transparency tool, not a recognition tool. eqf levels will feature on individuals’ diplomas and certificates and member states, participating countries and social partners, indeed also social partners, will continue to meet at european level to agree the correct referencing of each qualification framework. but the world of qualifications does not stay still. people are increasingly learning in different settings and are rightly demanding that this learning and experience is better recognised. this will happen even more in the future. qualifications and national qualification frameworks are adapting. this is why the new eqf recommendation proposes a continuous updating of the referencing process in order to ensure that this keeps pace and the referencing remains. as highlighted in your question and in your motion for a resolution on the eqf, equal opportunities and permeability should be strengthened. this is valid both within systems, for example to make progress from vocational to higher education easier, as well as between different systems and countries. i am sure parliament will welcome therefore that our proposed revision puts a greater emphasis on credit systems to support flexible learning pathways, including by setting our principles for credit systems in a dedicated annex, that is annex 5 as you know. and of course linked to this, a call for the proper recognition and validation of non-formal and informal learning in line with the dedicated council recommendation of 2012. member states are invited by the eqf to incorporate this validation in their national qualification frameworks. indeed for the eqf what counts are the outcomes of learning, and not the duration or the institution where the learning took place. ensuring the consistency of eqf implementation is the task of the eqf advisory group. this group, created in 2009, has proven its value in building trust between member states, and its work will continue. we will continue our work together with the advisory group to better communicate about the eqf and to improve its outreach to citizens and employers. we will also look more closely at the reality on the ground through studies and peer-learning activities. in addition, cedefop will support the eqf process updating, the european inventory on national qualifications framework, and all this should also help to make it more visible. you know that the eqf serves as a translation grid, a translation grid between different national education and training systems. it helps to better understand and compare qualifications that are part of these systems. the eqf therefore fully respects and protects each national education and training system. the goal is transparency and understanding. the goal is not harmonisation. regarding a better understanding of third-country qualifications, the proposal includes a specific recommendation on exploring such comparisons. we should not have illusions, though. the reference to the eqf requires mature national qualification systems. pilots to date have been done by new zealand, australia and hong kong, but this is not done in isolation. migrants and refugees need our help now. other actions of the new skills agenda for europe focus on practical actions, practical action for a better understanding of the skills of third-country nationals. next month i will launch a skills profile tool for this very purpose. it will be done on 20 june and this will coincide, as you know, with world refugee day. the new eqf also brings more clarity on international qualifications such as sectoral or industry qualifications. this will be achieved by expert and peer support to member states for their levelling. the eqf has been a successful tool to improve the transparency of qualifications across europe. it has stimulated member states to introduce national qualification frameworks and it is a tool which individuals and employers are beginning use: people are referring to eqf levels in their cvs and i hope soon too in job adverts. the new eqf will build upon what we have achieved. it looks to the future to keep pace with changes in qualifications and continues to be at the forefront of skills transparency. together with the nine other actions of the skills agenda for europe we aim for a joined-up approach which promotes better skills in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. we welcome the successful use of the european qualifications framework process. it has become a source of reference and inspiration for developing a framework of qualifications both in europe and globally. however, this is not enough as there are studies showing that there is still a gap and that it is holding back the primary objective which is to increase transparency and the comparison of qualifications in the european union. this initiative is in line with the policy objectives, as the commissioner said, set out in the skills agenda for advanced mobility to promote skills relevant to a modern and functional economy, as well as a lifelong learning process and on the transparency and recognition of qualifications across the european union. while we are aware of the possibilities for action at european union level, we must also be fully prepared within the limits of the treaty; we would gain more if there were wider coordination, and information, transparency, comparability and cooperation mechanisms. this helps and supports the mobility of workers and learners, so that they work towards the goal of lifelong learning and are better placed to be employed. by contributing to better use of skills and qualifications, it will be easier for companies to hire and fill the gap in the labour market due to difficulties in finding useful candidates within the country. now, commissioner, we need to build on what we have achieved in order to remove the barriers to mobility related to trust and agreement in their qualifications regardless of where they are obtained, as you rightly said in your speech, and we must do this for the benefit of both the individual, the labour market and ultimately our economy.
on behalf of the s&d group. other let me begin by thanking, first of all, the rapporteur, biljana borzan, for the very good work she has done, because food waste is not just a political issue, for me it is a moral issue, because the amount of food being thrown away and wasted is literally outrageous. third ! not a joke ! we're talking about a third of the world's food being lost in the food production process. from the field to the plate. each person in europe wastes around three hundred and seventy kilograms of food a year. in supermarkets, grocery stores, our homes, factories, and even farms, we are constantly throwing away food. and the worst part is that most of the food we throw away is good to eat. for me it is an injustice when the solution can be an easy one. put your seat and all food in front of you. there will always be a lot of food that will end up being wasted, but what we are experiencing today is colossal waste. it turns out that the richer a country is, the more it wastes food, so much so that some countries have four times more food than their people actually need. in the world we have enough food for everyone but still millions of people suffer from hunger every day. to produce food we are clearing forests, using water, producing emissions and reaching the ecological limits of our planet. it cannot be that because a fruit is not of the right size or shape, it ends up thrown away. we cannot continue to obstruct food donation. and finally, each of us can reduce this waste by changing our attitudes. the european union also has a duty to act. but we must act now and cannot wait for others to act.
in writing. – no one was ready or prepared for the outcome of globalisation! in the beginning, we saw globalisation as an opportunity for countries, companies and people to travel, expand, grow and connect. only later on did we recognise the wide range of economic and social spill-overs that affected all parts of our lives and people all over the globe. lack of control, mismanagement, misguided development policies, the race to the bottom and the lack of rules associated globalisation with job losses, social injustice, squeezed living standards, rising inequalities and low environmental, health and privacy standards. the globalisation backlash has led to political disenchantment and an increase in the protectionist movements and populist politics that were the leading force behind a few elections’ outcomes, as well as the brexit referendum. in today’s world, isolation is definitely not the answer and global cooperation is increasingly important. however, we need to realise that modern capitalism, not managed in way that can benefit all, makes people restless for not being in control of their own lives and their own future. globalisation requires a new institutional architecture and a new moral ecology, and i am afraid that unless we take active steps now, populism, radicalisation, and xenophobia will continue to spread across our countries.
the situation of christians in the middle east is of serious concern. long-established christian communities in the middle east are facing increasing pressure that is resulting in significant displacement of people in some countries or a decline in christians in the region as a whole. the palm sunday explosions in two coptic churches were just one of many attacks against christians in the region, aimed at increasing inter-religious tension, increasing hatred between communities. christians have been attacked because of their religion and beliefs for decades. they have become victims of terrorist groups and authoritarian regimes, of social discrimination, unemployment and poverty, all because they want to practice their religion openly and freely. this is contrary to the values of the european union. we must defend religious pluralism. the european union must be stronger and condemn all forms of intolerance and violence against people on the grounds of their religion. the next foreign affairs council must address this issue now and not later.
chief negotiator. mr president, hello to each and every one of you. my first words will be to thank your parliament, its president and also guy verhofstadt, for your many expressions of confidence in the task entrusted to me and for the spirit of cooperation which has prevailed between us from the beginning. and i would like to - as i have just done for parliament - personally thank president tusk, his cabinet and the general secretariat of the council because, from the beginning - it is no accident that we have reached an agreement so quickly in the european council - there has been patient, tenacious and sincere cooperation between us. here's how we're going to build this unit all along the road. president juncker, who first confided in me, then recommended to the european council, through negotiating directives, to adopt in detail the guidelines and the modalities of these negotiations. on 22 may, in a few days' time, the general affairs council will have to confirm this negotiating directive. president tusk has made it clear how we will undertake this negotiation in stages and sequences, under the authority of the european council. and he has made it clear that we must first agree on the principles of the three major issues, ladies and gentlemen, on which the sovereign decision of the united kingdom to leave the european union is creating a very great deal of uncertainty today. we must as soon as possible remove this uncertainty for citizens first, for the beneficiaries of the european budget and for the frontiers, particularly in ireland. frankly, this sequencing is not done to create problems or to punish the uk in any way. this sequencing is done to organize and solve problems, as it is written in the treaty: "organize the orderly withdrawal taking into account the future relationship". the orderly withdrawal is precisely these three major issues and a few others, such as the governance of the agreement or administrative and judicial procedures. ladies and gentlemen, i say to you as a negotiator that this sequencing has another purpose: to create the basis for confidence. we must build from the outset, by solving these problems for the citizens, for the beneficiaries of the structural funds and for the borders, the foundations of a lasting trust that we need to build the future relationship with the united kingdom. that is the condition and i repeat in front of you that our objective is to reach an agreement. the options of no deal or bad deal are not mine. we want to reach an agreement with the united kingdom, not against it. i would also like to see the british side get into the mood of reaching an agreement with the european union and not against the european union. we will start this negotiation as soon as possible, the day after the election called by theresa may on 8 june. the fact that the elections are taking place just before the start of the negotiations clearly gives our british partners the stability and visibility that we also need. i believe that this is one of the elements of the success of this negotiation. the confidence i mentioned and which you all expressed is matched by our own confidence in you, in the other institutions, in the council, in transparency and in our continuing readiness to involve the institutions and your parliament throughout the negotiating cycle. i will be at your disposal, that is to say, at the disposal of the whole team you have appointed with guy verhofstadt and yourself, mr president, to exchange views before and after each of the negotiating sessions, and, in the same way, the whole team of the task force which i have been able to put together thanks to the daily trust of president juncker and all the commission services will also be at your disposal. we are also prepared to ensure a high degree of transparency in all the negotiating documents which will be made public. i should like to answer several of the questions raised by the various speakers by telegram. on citizens' rights, mr weber, mrs grapini, mrs gardini and even mr fitto - who is not here - spoke of a fair and balanced agreement. we have, at the beginning of these negotiations, an ambitious position set out by the european council, which is fully legitimate, since we demand that european citizens and british citizens affected by brexit can continue to enjoy the same rights. this will apply to citizens, to their families and to all rights: the right of residence, freedom of movement, the right of access to social security, the right of access to the labour market. we are talking about the rights that will be acquired until the day of brexit, of course, and we will also ensure that these rights are actually guaranteed. we cannot be satisfied with a simple declaration of intent on this very serious subject, which affects the daily and personal lives of many families. on the financial regulation - and i am glad that mr farage is here because he quoted me - i have never quoted figures, mr farage, as far as i am concerned. because those figures will depend on the methodology that we have to agree on and they will also depend on the actual date of the uk's withdrawal. it is not mr barnier who will fix a figure. we will work, as the european council wishes, to reach an agreement with the british, calmly and calmly, on the commitments that have been made. there is no punishment, there is no exit bill. we have made financial commitments together, as a group of 28, particularly in the current financial perspective period. we are financing them together, as a group of 28, and we are benefiting from them together, as a group of 28, for all the regions of the european union, for the universities, the laboratories, the students, the farmers. it is a question of settling accounts as we do in any separation, neither more nor less, and i will do it without emotion, without a spirit of revenge, without punishment, sticking to the facts, the figures and the commitments that have been made, neither more nor less. on ireland, where i had the privilege of visiting last week and being received by both houses of parliament in session, mr kelly and mr nicholson spoke of this visit which was very moving and very useful to me. this is a unique situation which calls for unique solutions, which should not call into question the integrity of the internal market. we will do everything we can to find a solution which clearly, fully and in all its dimensions preserves the good friday agreement, which i recall - but mrs anderson or mr brok have raised this issue - and which the united kingdom is co-guarantor. i just want to say a word about the transitional periods that mr caputo mentioned. it is possible that we are working on transitional periods after brexit, after the uk's departure, namely periods of phasing out and phasing in with a view to the future relationship. but the real transition period is now, before the withdrawal, between now and the day of the withdrawal. and i recommend to all economic actors in particular that they use this period well so that the withdrawal, on the day it is due to take place - probably in march 2019 - is as orderly as possible. but i would also like to make it clear to mr van dalen, who has just mentioned some specific issues such as those of fishermen - whom i know well from having been fisheries minister in my own country - and to mrs james and mr vilimsky, that everyone must understand that it was the united kingdom that decided to leave the european union and not the other way around. and many of us have regretted that decision, but now we have to make it happen. this decision has consequences and those who say or would say that everything can continue as before are not telling the truth. we will have to unravel the mystery because this is the united kingdom's decision after 44 years of integration, economic, financial, technical, legal, human and social relations. forty-four years! no one should underestimate the consequences in all areas, nor the legal complexity of such a separation. i would strongly recommend this if we are to tell the truth to the citizens, and it is our duty to explain it to them. i also recommend that we calmly, pedagogically, democratically explain what brexit means - as i did in my speech, mr nicholson, last week in dublin - what it means to be a member of the union and what it means to no longer be a member of the union for the daily lives of citizens, consumers and businesses. we must tell the truth to the citizens. and i also recommend that you take the time to explain to those who speak differently what this means, and i say to the conditional, there is no agreement at all. i recommend that we take the time to explain this to the citizens, and not just in the uk. ladies and gentlemen, we will work, as the council wishes, in stages, to build a new partnership, a new relationship with the united kingdom. ashley fox has spoken very wisely about this earlier. this relationship - it is not too early to outline it - will include a free and fair trade agreement, cooperation agreements, particularly in the field of universities or research, and a partnership, as we wish, in the field of security and defence. there are two important points for this future relationship. we will never accept that a free trade agreement leads to unfair competition or a lowering of our social standards. this is a point that the president, mrs zimmer, has raised, but also mrs rodrigues, mr sylikiotis and mr kofod. we will not accept the lowering of social, fiscal or environmental standards in the european union, nor will we accept the trading of security over trade issues. richard corbett has mentioned complexity, including agencies, but i'm not going to go into that. i would just like to conclude with a more political word as we prepare to start this negotiation which has not yet started and the clock is ticking, the time is short to get a good deal. i would like to return to the point that mr niedermüller, mr gonzález pons and mr lamberts raised earlier. there are the consequences of brexit and i'm going to have to, on your behalf, deal with most of those consequences in this negotiation and there are the lessons of brexit, which are different. i think that in this respect we must listen to a number of reasons which have been expressed by british citizens, as in other countries, by means of protest votes, a feeling of incomprehension, anger, social suffering and a feeling of being excluded from progress. i think, ladies and gentlemen, and i say this as the politician i always am, that populism should not be confused with popular sentiment. and i think we all have a better chance of listening to popular sentiment on this issue, as one of the lessons of brexit. finally, i would like to say to mr gualtieri and mr weber, who spoke of unity, that this unity which we have built together, under the leadership of president tusk and with the confidence of president juncker and that of president tajani, is important to me as a negotiator because i need it and i will ensure that it is maintained, maintained and cultivated throughout the process. this unity must be able to be used - if i may say so - by the heads of state or government, by the institutions to do something else, because brexit is not the whole radar screen of europe. there are so many challenges to be met, such as those mentioned by mr lamassoure, in particular, on defence, security, border management, the single market and the euro area. so i wanted to say as a negotiator - it's very important that everyone understands this - that we need this unity that we have built on negotiation. this unity will be useful for the rest of the european agenda and the european leaders and you, mobilized on a positive and proactive agenda on the other challenges, will strengthen the unity i also need in the negotiation. it is an interactive unit that we need and that is why i really thank you for your confidence, ladies and gentlemen.
president of the european council. – mr president, i would like to thank the members for their words of support in today’s debate. until today, i had not witnessed such unity on the matters that i report here before parliament. our unity is the most important condition for a positive outcome from the negotiations. thanks to this unity we will also be able – together with the leaders – to deal in the coming months first and foremost with the positive agenda for the union of the 27. i agree with my friend, guy verhofstadt, that this should be our priority – not brexit. today i will meet president macron in paris, and i am really happy that – also thanks to you and to this debate – we will be able to devote our meeting to the future of the 27 and not only to brexit.
in writing. – the deal that is negotiated ensures that neither european citizens and nor the british people are affected negatively. however, the only way we can ensure a fair deal is to ensure full transparency and public participation. we have to ask citizens what their concerns are, we need to be listening to students who want to safeguard their education, we need to act on the concerns of european workers who are based in the uk, who have settled with their families and created lives that cannot be torn apart by this decision. there are families that will be divided if there is a hard border between ireland and northern ireland. we stand with these families and we are emphasising that we will support them. we must safeguard their interests, and make sure that the decisions being made not only take their needs into consideration but put them at the forefront of our debate. brexit gives us the opportunity for a fresh start to revitalise europe. the future of the eu and the reform of the eu should be a priority. we need to use the brexit negotiations to make sure that we ensure a better future for europe and our youths.
in writing. – hailing from malta, i understand the need to bring together different countries in the mediterranean region. where others see a challenging region, i see a region that can offer immense opportunities for people who have many similarities. the prima initiative is not only a tool that can help different countries come together, but equally importantly it focuses on very important aspects of our environment, climate change, our food supplies and the serious implications that these can have. the mediterranean region is one of the most vulnerable regions. we already have restricted and fragile natural resources and any changes will have devastating effects on our people. climate change will inevitably lead to people displacement and this in turn can result in the political destabilisation of regions and countries. prima can be the right tool for both the eu and southern mediterranean countries which together can pool their resources to develop common solutions for very pertinent issues. i look forward to a successful initiative with positive impacts for the next 10 years and i would like to congratulate the maltese presidency and the commission for successfully closing the negotiations that are leading to the setting up of this crucial initiative.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here with us and also gerben-jan gerbrandy who, as the rapporteur of this effort sharing regulation, worked really hard on bringing the groups together. unfortunately, for a long time, we had people who considered climate change to be a fictitious thing – this is happening today as well: if you pretend that it is not real, it will literally disappear. we know today that climate change is affecting every country in every continent. what we face today is a difficult task but an achievable one. the task before us goes beyond the choices that individuals privately make. this is about industries and it is about governments making the right choices and taking concrete measures. this is our moment for action. we had the opportunity to make serious policies with the emissions trading scheme and this is our opportunity now with this regulation. we need to end once and for all the free ride that polluters have been given. this is not a technical debate but i believe that this is a human rights debate because our citizens and our children have a right to a cleaner world. as socialists and democrats, we believe that it is our duty to respond properly to our planet’s greatest challenge with determination and honesty. i am proud that this political group was part of a group that stopped the attempts to water down this legislation. this is what we worked hard to achieve in the effort sharing regulation. there are no excuses: our economy will die if our ecosystems collapse. the climate action legislation sets a clear trajectory to 2030, and a longer-term objective up to 2050, to reduce emissions in important sectors including transport, agriculture, buildings and waste. i would say to the commissioner that we need to think now if we want to ensure our future and we need to have a long-term perspective. this parliament must have a progressive and ambitious stand on these measures, closing loopholes and making sure that member states reduce their emissions; ensuring also that all sectors contribute to a proper reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. we pushed for more compliance checks, yes; every two years. unlike the commissioner, we know that this can be done and we want to be ambitious and we want to have something that really works. we aligned the review cycle with the global stocktake of the implementation of the paris agreement as well. we believe that we have the means to stop this devastation but we need to have the political will to do so. this is our opportunity to really show that we are ready to stand up to the occasion. it is no longer time for watering down legislation, because we can make a positive impact. if we do not act now, the effects of climate change will become even worse.
madam president, the eurozone still faces two major fundamental problems: its component parts diverge economically and socially, and divergence is increasing. this allows parts of the system to automatically benefit from the rules of the game and others to lose out. secondly, the only available mechanism to repair imbalances is internal devaluation. this creates huge social hardship which, when unfairly distributed, undermines the legitimacy of emu. as in the five presidents’ report, the commission paper lists the tools that could, if properly used, help to counteract these two major flaws. however, experience has shown that tools lined up to address the problems of european integration – unless they are properly structured through political agreement – correct symptoms while leaving underlying problems to fester. this has been the case with the application of the two—pack and six—pack process, so we have budgetary balances while public investment remains in decline. any new structural change in the eurozone’s structure would need a prior political agreement between eurozone members regarding how such change would operate. leaving it to be guided by free market forces or making it subservient to the dogma that there can be no transfer union would again simply give greater impetus to divergences while allowing social unfairness resulting from internal devaluation to grow.
author. – madam president, glyphosate, which we are speaking about today and the oral question that we are presenting and the topic that it is focusing on, is the world’s most used herbicide, and obviously the european union is no exception to this. the carcinogenity and the genotoxicity of the substance are confirmed by certain studies but denied by others. the fact is, that it is undeniable that there are serious doubts as to the substance’s safety. the commission keeps on insisting that it arrives to its decisions based on two things: scientific evidence and the rule of law. the issue we are dealing with today goes further. it is about the lack of transparency; it is about questionable scientific reliability and scientific independence. it is about losing public trust and about corporate giants overstepping their authority – and yes, transparency matters. the glyphosate hazard classification process of the european commission and its two agencies, the european food safety authority (efsa) and the european chemicals agency (echa), appears to be a good example of how lack of transparency regarding the scientific evidence that underlies important public health decisions can end up eroding public trust and raise serious concerns. independent analysis indicates serious flaws in the efsa and echa safety assessments – namely, eight instances where increases in tumours as a response following glyphosate exposure were not included in the assessment by either agency. in march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, which forms part of the world health organisation, said that glyphosate was ‘probably carcinogenic to humans’. on the other hand, the commission is claiming that echa and efsa concluded that the available scientific evidence did not meet the criteria to classify glyphosate as a carcinogen, as a mutagen or as toxic for reproduction. no wonder that questions and doubts still exist. is it too extreme to imagine that there could be an expert panel, financed by corporate giants, who would conclude that available data will not support the conclusion that that glyphosate is a ‘probable human carcinogen’? how can we be sure of the validity of the conclusions about the safety or otherwise of glyphosate when there is lack of transparency, and when it has been publicly revealed by the latest us court cases that the scientific data provided by the company experts was falsified? we have to take a strong stand on this issue. until we know for certain that glyphosate is safe for our citizens and the environment, we cannot allow this substance to be freely sold in the eu market. and this is why we are presenting this oral question: we want to understand what steps the commission is taking to make sure that the decision on the renewal of glyphosate is based on credible and independent scientific findings. we want the commission to recommend echa and efsa to critically revise the validity of the current studies, and not to propose the approval of glyphosate as long as the scientific uncertainties have not been clarified. we also require the commission to rapidly ensure an independent review of the classification of glyphosate in relation to hormone disruption, genotoxicity and carcinogenity. finally, we want the commission to promote and support the agricultural sector so that our farmers can move towards glyphosate-free agriculture, and towards alternative sustainable and cost-efficient solutions for pest management. we asked precise questions on behalf of the environment committee to the commission, and we are looking forward to precise detailed answers. ultimately, people’s right to health and a healthy environment should be our priority at all times.
i am here representing those citizens who are concerned and who want action to be taken, seriously, to tackle climate change - also by the european institutions and also by this house. and sometimes i start hearing the speeches and i can't believe my ears, because we have people who don't even realize that if the world's ecosystems die, the economies will collapse completely. and with all due respect, when we were talking and negotiating the paris agreement, i felt there was a consensus that we could all work together to save the future of our planet. and i was hoping that this was the beginning of a revolution that would lead to a change that would take place in our time. the decision of the american president to withdraw from the paris agreement, we must admit, is a blow to the heart. but this obstacle will not diminish our determination to act. we have to lead, we have to inspire and we have to empower. because now is the time for us to take strong action: the moment when we decide as one united continent which side of history we want to be on. and this is a subject with a direct impact on human rights. we are talking, as we have also heard, about the right to food, the right to clean water, the right to health, the right to education, the right to human security. it is precisely these people, who are the most vulnerable who are not even contributing to climate change, that solidarity must be with.
in writing. – soulsearching about european values has become a prevalent mood because, since 2008, certain basic tenets about what the eu stood for, and on which its soft power rested, have been downgraded. among these was the belief that europe stood for a social market system that would promote the free market while guaranteeing social rights, in the context of economic stability or growth. today, when stability or growth are lacking or threatened, in order to reacquire competitivity and growth under existing structures of european integration, the only way out is to restrain social conditions. there has emerged a contradiction between the social rights that the eu proclaims, and the options available to it to achieve desired outcomes. indeed, it has become questionable whether the three objectives that are fundamental to the european union as of now, can be kept all three of them together: free market policies under conditions of increasing globalisation and oligopolisation; an ongoing commitment to further european integration; and a total commitment to safeguard and enhance existing social rights in europe. before this dilemma is satisfactorily addressed, a sentiment of angst about the real import of european values will prevail.
more than a year ago, the panama papers exposed plans for large-scale corruption and money laundering by people occupying high positions in the maltese government. a number of criminal investigations are currently underway in malta. the prime minister of malta has been given another chance by the electorate, and we respect that. but last week's vote does not excuse the sins of corrupt politicians. the prime minister's second chance has not started on a very good note. he has corrupt and money laundering people in his cabinet again. now the prime minister has a choice: or to go down in history as the corrupt prime minister of malta, or he can choose to set the record straight. if you choose this, i'll be there to help. we help to rebuild the reputation of malta. help defend our financial sector. prime minister, you let anyone attack, for example, the fiau whistleblower. we're here today to ask you not to throw away the second chance you have. i love malta. it is a beautiful country. and because i love malta i will continue to come here and speak out against corruption. i love malta and because i love malta i will continue to speak out when our institutions are weak. prime minister, you have a small window of opportunity to limit the damage you have caused. use it. see what you brought to our country. prime minister, do not continue to condone corruption, but i appeal to you that all of us together, you and us, work to eradicate corruption and criminals in our country.
mr president, members of this parliament wishing to criticise the maltese government might say it has adopted policies with which they disagree. yet under dr muscat’s administration, the maltese economy has reached unprecedented growth rates, at the top of the eu league. it is delivering prosperity to all segments of the maltese population; reforms have been implemented very quickly on social liberalisation, on lgbt rights, on access to education, on the reduction of poverty. progress has been rapid. the government has declared it will correct any mistakes made. critics of the maltese administration have no basis to claim that the rule of law is being undermined. that rule is as alive and well in malta as anywhere else in the eu. currently, four magisterial inquiries are investigating allegations of improprieties in public management. they are proceeding in total independence, in accordance with the rule of law. the maltese prime ministers has committed to respect their conclusions. some might dislike the fact that malta is excelling in financial services, yet the sector operates in full conformity with eu and oecd rules. individual cases are being wrongly generalised by people in this parliament. the grounds for this debate are non-existent. if they are given credence, future statements we might make about the rule of law anywhere will risk becoming undermined and devalued. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – (inaudible) for a prime minister to respect the verdict of the people. i note that this has been done in this case as well.
interesting how the european people's party, of which the maltese nationalist party is a member, put the subject up for debate to give the impression that the legal principle of law does not exist in malta. they are trying to put malta in the same boat as hungary, run by a member of their political family. what they are not saying is that the nationalist party, which is part of the european people's party, has spent weeks playing the role of prosecutor, jury and judge, telling who to put in jail and who to remove because they disagree with them. it puts pressure on the institutions and undermines the institutions themselves. and it continues with the baseless allegations that i've heard repeated here. to me, that is the attitude of someone who does not believe in the basic principle of the rule of law. the reality is that it took a labour government to lift the statute of limitations for politicians accused of corruption, to introduce the party financing law and to introduce a law protecting whistleblowers. a government that does not respect the rule of law does not introduce these measures.
for those who truly love malta, it is not pleasant to be here today in this discussion. the government could have avoided all this but did not want to. in several countries, there are ongoing magisterial inquiries into key government officials involved in allegations of money laundering in secret accounts. here, because it is convenient for him to silence us, he says that if you defend your country, you are betraying malta. those who say that are wrong. we would be betraying malta if we defended those who protect those who are being investigated. i am proud to be maltese and proud to defend countries in malta and here too. i am also against those who are using what has happened as an excuse to weaken the financial services sector in malta. the wrongs committed by these people should not be blamed on workers and financial services. i therefore call on the one hand to remain committed to strengthening our key institutions in our country, including those that guard against illegal activities, and on the other hand to react to anyone who uses what the government has done as an excuse for malta's success in this sector over the past years. in words, anyone can say that he is european but what should define us as maltese and european is our values as we carry them out. defending and working in the interests of our country is our duty and shows our greatness, because our greatness does not come from position or geographical size but from our ability to implement european values. i pledge to defend our country and what we believe in, together with my colleagues, everywhere.
this debate, which should never have taken place, is being instigated solely for partisan purposes with a view to undermining the work of the maltese government and tarnishing malta's reputation. we are discussing matters of a democratic state which should be dealt with internally and without interference. we are discussing one of the most economically successful member states, where democracy and the rule of law have never been in doubt. while there is a pana committee for the panama papers, today's debate is just a poor excuse for this house to include a partisan agenda of people who, whenever they speak with the aim of attacking the government, have done their best to harm their country, especially while malta holds the presidency. people who claim to be ashamed of being maltese. the purpose of this debate is not really to discuss the rule of law. they wanted this debate to take place before the general election in order to gain a partisan political advantage. these are tactics of embarrassment, tactics of bullying. malta is a democratic, progressive and successful country. a small country but a great nation. don't try to bully us because we won't let you.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me conclude by underlining the importance of this decision with a view to supporting key reforms in moldova. as you know, any amendment beyond the five amendments to the report of the committee on international trade (inta) would trigger a second reading and significantly delay the adoption process, as well as the disbursement of macro-financial assistance which is still foreseen this year, provided that conditions are met. therefore, we count on your political support for moldova and hope that you will follow the inta report and approve the commission proposal as agreed in a trilogue of 6 of june of this year.
rapporteur. – mr president, although we may not realise it, standards are everywhere around us – in healthcare, food, transportation, construction, cosmetics, energy and so many other things. in each sector, standards are a necessary component and a mechanism that can improve health and safety for our citizens, can protect consumers and raise their confidence, guarantee safe products and services, reduce costs and enhance performance for businesses, increase sales and the take-up of new technologies, boost competitiveness and innovation in europe. however, it is important that standards are developed in an open, inclusive and transparent system, based on close partnership, cooperation and broad support of industry, public authorities, consumers, workers and citizens, i.e. all the stakeholders. this is of paramount importance when standards are developed for products and services that can affect the health and safety and the wellbeing of people. and this is the main thrust of my report, standards for the 21st century. the objective of this report is to contribute to the ongoing debate and to set the european parliament’s priorities in response to the commission standardisation package, including the joint initiative on standardisation and development of ict standards. the report will also contribute to the first interinstitutional dialogue and to the commission’s annual work programme 2018, which will be adopted in july. i would like to express my gratitude to the shadows and to the commission for their open and collaborative work on this report. in fact, the commission has decided to postpone their annual work programme by one month, so that they can take on board our recommendations, which will be voted upon tomorrow. the standardisation environment is changing and is challenging. to respond to these challenges, i based the report on a number of salient points that are essential for the future of the european standardisation system. first, the report acknowledges that there is more to the standardisation process than an economic aspect. the european standardisation system must be based on an inclusive, holistic and common approach whereby smes, consumer and citizen goals – particularly those related to economic, social and health issues and the environment – are fully integrated into the standardisation process. second, the report stresses the importance and success of the standardisation regulation 1025. the european system is unique, but we should always strive to improve it, without undermining all the positive work which has been done. there are two different ecosystems at european level for the development of eu standards, and that is cen/cenelec and etsi. both systems have their existing good practices but they need to be explored further. that is why the report makes some valuable suggestions on how to further improve, support and strengthen the work of the european standardisation organisations, by safeguarding that the development of standards remains open, transparent and guided by european interests. third, it is important to stress that standards are not a legislative tool, and they should not be used as such. they are a voluntary, market-driven tool, providing technical requirements and guidance for the implementation of eu legislation. fourth, standards is an extremely competitive area at international level and in order to maintain europe’s leadership position in technical development and global trade, we need to pay more attention to the global role and relevance of standards. fifth, developing standards is a long-term investment and not everyone can afford the time, expertise and investment in this complex process. therefore, a key point in the report is supporting smes’ participation in the process of developing standards. the report also recognises the key role of ict standards for the future development of the digital single market, frand – fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory – royalty-free licensing and open-source software implementation. having open standardisation processes based on frand licensing terms, which address the legitimate interests of both the holders of rights and potential licensees, is now more important than ever. finally, we need to increase the awareness and knowledge about standards and to explain how standardisation works and when it can be used. we are therefore proposing an annual standardisation forum where once a year stakeholders can meet to discuss european standards. so i hope that you can support this report at tomorrow’s vote so that this institution can send a strong message about the importance of the european standardisation system.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this very interesting discussion. for years europe has been in the lead when it comes to creating standards and it must stay like this. if we do not create our own standards in europe, others will do it globally. it is key here that our standards should become a global standard. i very much agreed with mr schwab when he said that those outside the system who will not participate in creating european standards will pay the price sooner rather than later. i also agree that standards are crucial for the integrity of the internal market. we are doing our best under our joint initiative launched last year to avoid the fragmentation of the single market. the joint initiative, that was broadly welcomed by all of the partners and all of the stakeholders of the standardisation system – if i may just repeat this – is there to create a system that is inclusive, collaborative and a symbol for the companies, a system that taps the potential of it and services, but above all a system that can set priorities in areas such as e-health, smart energy and intelligent transport systems. for example, connected automated vehicles will significantly benefit from our proposed prioritisation. thank you very much again for this discussion. i will keep you updated and look forward to our interinstitutional dialogue later this year. let us work together on the future of the european standardisation system because this is crucial for our citizens and for our industry.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their contributions to this debate and in particular to the shadows and to the european commission. standards are there to guarantee that products are fit for purpose, work smoothly and reliably together, providing high quality and safety safeguards for our citizens. they are important for consumers and companies, for the interoperability of products and for providing economies of scale by keeping markets open and avoiding lock-in with given providers or products. therefore, i hope that this report will not be condemned to paper and never see the light of day. i also hope that the commission, the european standardisation organisations and member states will implement and enforce its recommendations. so, in particular, i would like to reiterate: it is important to enhance the synergies and coordination between all stakeholders; develop inclusive, sustainable, safe and high-quality standards with fair access and treatment of all stakeholders; improve the accessibility and transparency of the standardisation process; remove the de facto obstacles to an effective involvement of annex iii organisations; create an easy-to-use single point of access to standards; monitor international ict standardisations and promote the european regulatory model and interests at international level; clarify the core elements of an equitable, effective and enforceable licensing methodology based on frand; and prepare a european register listing existing european standards and ongoing standardisation work to avoid duplication of work. and finally, to raise awareness and knowledge about standards, introduce professional standardisation courses, and develop standardisation guidelines for policymakers. last, but not least, i welcome the commission’s decision to involve the european parliament as a signatory to the joint initiative for standardisation.
madam president, every year many countries around the world, including member states of the european union, organise events to honour the memory of people who die from infectious diseases such as hiv, aids, tb and hepatitis. these events come and go many times, but apathy remains high. despite the progress made over past decades, infectious diseases such as hiv, aids, hepatitis and tb continue to be strongly stigmatised, not only here in the european union but globally too. many people infected and affected by hiv, tb and hepatitis continue to face discrimination and stigmatisation every single day. tb, for example, is one of the most seriously neglected and underestimated health, human-rights and poverty problems of our era. tb is re-emerging in many regions of the world as the gravest threat to global health and well—being. its direct relationship with hiv and aids makes it more of a burden on those populations that are already suffering the devastating social, economic and health impact of hiv and aids. stigmatisation and discrimination are not only tragic in themselves but they also contribute to the further spread of these epidemics, undermining all efforts to control the scourge. we have the responsibility to do more and, in particular, we need to address the taboos that surround infectious diseases. a high percentage of new infections identified every year occur in younger people, and this is worrying. this battle is theirs as much as anyone else’s. not to work together, and not to consider everyone, is not an option. we should not only consider curing people by treatment but also comprehensively implement preventive measures to ensure that fewer people become infected. the impact of these diseases on overall health status and socioeconomic well-being, especially of the most vulnerable, is vast. inaction and inadequate action are no longer acceptable. the cost of complacency is far too burdensome. these infectious diseases are a major threat to the rights of the child, adolescents, women and their families, and the social impacts are disproportionate, while the stigma is devastating. we have the opportunity to act, but we need – all together – to act now.
president-in-office of the council. thank you, mr president, thank you, members of this house, that for the third time in the last six months i am addressing you again. i would say that each experience was one that i will never forget but also the dialogue from which we learned a lot. at the end of this presidency, i wanted to talk a little about what we have achieved together, but i did not want to focus on what we have been through as a presidency, which, it should be remembered, was the first in our history. but as i said when we first met at the beginning of this experience, i wanted our contribution to go beyond a mere short period in the great history of this union. i hope that our eyes as convinced european politicians will remain on how we will improve the lives of our citizens and how tomorrow we will be more relevant than today, how we will give more rights and full equality to every citizen, how we will make it easier for businesses to grow, create more jobs for more young people to work because it is the good that creates jobs and work reduces poverty. we do not want to deceive ourselves, but we do go back and make people feel better, as they deserve. as i will explain later, we still see solidarity as a matter of money. solidarity is real but it is a question of humanity. so i would like this discussion with you to be more about the future of europe and not just about mere words, about what we have done. and what i want to leave behind is a chain reaction that continues as a way of thinking also to our estonian friends who are convinced that they will succeed in what they are doing. it is a new idea of how we are going to put the principles of the european union into practice. mr president, i would like to thank i am here today to close a small chapter in europe's history but one which for us maltese, the smallest member state, means a lot. even though holding the presidency of the european council might not have a direct effect on citizens, the maltese people feel a sense of pride, and every time we closed a dossier and we were praised or criticised we felt part of something bigger than the small island we live in. let me start by transmitting a sense of the positivity that the eu presidency has brought to our country. during the past six months we achieved a lot in terms of making a difference in people's lives. we closed important dossiers ending roaming charges and introducing cross-border portability, which affects apps we use in everyday life, and moving ahead with the wifi4eu initiative. other important dossiers which we closed were the anti-tax-avoidance directive, the double-taxation dispute resolution mechanism, better protection for workers from cancer-causing substances, and rules on business-to-consumer contracts for the supply of digital content. the eu joined the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. we have also seen serious advancement on gas security of supply, paved the way for 5g, and reached an agreement on the malta declaration charting the eu's way forward. these are important issues and initiatives which, if communicated effectively, can show citizens even the most sceptical millennials that the eu matters for them, on issues like the use of spotify through the available free wifi connection, to women's rights, to enhanced worker's rights, to facilitating future technologies. i must stress that these are all positive achievements which we should be talking to citizens about in our daily interactions on the media and when we meet our citizens face-to-face. the presidency, however, was also a stark reminder that there are issues which we are still at loggerheads about. migration, mr president, is one of them. for all the good intentions which we all declare, including through signed declarations, when it boils down to real, effective solidarity, we, as member states, should all be ashamed of our record. countries like ours are now home to thousands of migrants and have been for the past decade or so; countries like italy have seen hundreds of thousands of children, women and men reach their shores; and now we look at europe, at politicians, and think 'well, on this issue this europe is a failure'. so, do we blame any citizen in any country who feels short-changed because of the geographical reality they live in? how are we making a difference in these peoples' lives? are we just blaming them for turning to extremist parties? it is in this context that malta supports the agreement reached between italy, france and germany in the presence of commissioner avramopoulos. we agree with the need for more financial transparency for ngos, more specifically who is funding them and why: not to engage in some sort of war of words with these organisations, but to make sure that we all play by the same rules. we also agree that there need to be clear rules of engagement, that we should not engage in libyan territorial waters, and that there is a need for more coordination between the coastguards involved. i must remind you that our small island, the smallest member state, devotes 100% of its military assets to cooperating with all the relevant authorities to save lives at sea. however, to be very clear, this cannot go on forever. in the absence of real solidarity by all member states, no one should blame the member states affected for then trying to protect their national interest. but this is a road we do not want to go down. i think that we are still in time to have not only effective solidarity and effective border protection but also a way of managing this phenomenon together, rather than reacting once again, as we have been doing, in crisis mode. it has felt like the tail wagging the dog, rather than a situation in which we grasp control, we have an effective discussion and we move ahead, while making very clear what european values are and how they can be implemented. it is the time for choices for everyone. european union membership is not something whereby you choose which values you adhere to and which values you do not adhere to. european union membership is one set of values for each and every one of us. our presidency also had to deal with brexit this disastrous creature which all of us should have seen coming but none of us acted to stop. we have worked on this with some of the best people in the field, and here let me praise once again michel barnier's contribution and the excellent collaboration between council, commission, parliament and the presidency of the council of ministers. but then again, what are we praising here? the terms of a painful divorce which millions of citizens will have to go through? what are we doing, and what are we not doing, in order to make sure that such an experience does not present itself again in the future? i believe that this self-critical analysis of our work should stand. this is not self-flagellation but a reflection of what people in our cities, towns and villages are telling us. there is another dimension which we should not disregard. europe does not stop with its borders. our role in the world is as crucial and central as any other continent, and has become even more so in the past few months. we are at the forefront on certain issues which cut through oceans and forests, such as climate change. in this context, we must keep on defending the agreement on climate change that was born in paris that was born in europe and spread it from north to south and make sure that it gets implemented. europe must not close its eyes to what is happening just 60 km off our coast in libya, because europe is libya's neighbour and libya is europe's neighbour. our seas should be a force to unite the world. our vision for the world must be to build bridges and not walls. but first we must understand that solidarity begins at home and should be shown with the smaller members of our family and those going through a crisis. together we have overcome so many challenges, and if we heed our people we will once again rise to the occasion and bounce back on the crucial issues that affect citizens in the workplace, in our kids' classrooms, in our hospitals and in our homes when families sit around the table to discuss their daily successes and failures. finally, a word of thanks to council president donald tusk, to my dear friend jean claude and all his team and to yourself, mr president, and your predecessor. your constant support was the guiding light of our presidency. who would have thought that a small island of malta's proportions just half a million in population, the size of a medium-sized city in europe would have managed to chair hundreds of meetings and conclude important measures affecting the lives of so many millions of europeans? that, i believe, is the beauty of europe. i will sign off by wishing all the best to our estonian colleagues and by recalling what was, i think, one of the fantastic moments of our presidency where we were together in rome and were hosted by president mattarella. he gave a definition of europe to which i subscribe. he said that europe is made up of small states and those that have not yet come to realise that they are small. i believe that really is our europe.
president of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister, the european parliament is ridiculous, very ridiculous. i commend those who have taken the trouble to come here, but the fact that only about 30 members are attending this debate is sufficient proof that parliament is not serious, and i wanted to say that today. if mr. muscat was mrs. merkel hardly imaginable or mr. macron more imaginable ...we would have a full house. the parliament is totally ridiculous.
president of the commission. – there are only a few members in the plenary to control the commission. you are ridiculous! i wanted to pay tribute to the maltese presidency ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
president of the commission. – i will never again attend a meeting of this kind. the commission is under the control of the parliament, but the parliament has to respect even the presidencies of smaller countries, which parliament is not doing. i wanted to pay tribute to the maltese government and to the prime minister. i want to pay tribute to what the prime minister of malta did. he did excellent work, as did all the maltese ministers and the senior civil servants and other civil servants of malta. an excellent job.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr prime minister, yes this morning we are seeing how maltese civil servants who have acquired a high level of knowledge of european union affairs over the course of many years deserve all the praise for the work they have done over the last six months. we had several files that were closed under this presidency, including the roaming charges, online content portability, the internal security agenda, cybersecurity, the agreement on the istanbul convention against gender violence, as well as the establishment of the asylum agency. of course, as regards employment and the lack of agreement on the posting of workers, it is a matter of regret because i, as the empl coordinator, naturally hope that in the coming months we will succeed and progress will be made. while an agreement has been reached to set up the european public prosecutor's office, it is regrettable that for certain reasons the maltese government will not be taking part in this initiative. on the other hand, we cannot forget the lingering national issues, including corruption in our country. the prime minister spoke about the value of truth and other values that cannot be selected, he said. i mention the value of justice: this morning the commission is asking you, mr prime minister, your government, to explain why people who are politically opposed to you have been removed from valletta 18. here is your proof, mr. prime minister; you have a chance to show that you really believe in unity, now that the election is over, and continue to work for maltese to unite and not be divided. we are ready to help you with this. i hope that you will not allow those who divide our country to continue and see that you unite our country.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the following is a statement of fact, not an indulgence in national feel good: under the maltese presidency some very good work has been done, and that has been acknowledged a number of times already. there was painstaking preparation for it and an all-out commitment to get the job done. unfortunately, meanwhile, efforts were made – including in this parliament, as we have just heard – to denigrate the maltese government with claims that the rule of law was not being respected in malta. these clumsy allegations did not succeed in derailing the work of the presidency. some indications regarding future prospects can be taken from the maltese presidency and the experience of it. first, on immigration, the union still lacks cohesion, as prime minister muscat has just said, but can this emerge through the normal deliberations that go on under different presidencies, six months at a time, under the present process? we need a special effort. secondly, brexit talks have got off to a slow and ambiguous start. the danger here is that, instead of reaching for an outcome that is politically fair and strategically smart, both sides get stuck in detail. thirdly, issues relating to tax policies and financial services are increasingly being subjected to opaque, many—sided calculations at the level of the council and also this parliament. still, the maltese presidency has passed over to its successor a state of play which, in most sectors, offers much hope of further progress soon.
mr president, i would like to thank the maltese prime minister, joseph muscat, and all the maltese who worked in brussels and in malta for their hard work, commitment and determination in making a successful presidency. having a european union presidency for the first time is always a challenge for a small country like malta. but holding the presidency during turbulent times in europe, such as the brexit negotiations and the immigration and unemployment crises, makes it even more challenging. despite these obstacles, malta has shown the capacity to face and achieve the targets in the interest of europe, of its citizens. the maltese presidency worked on different initiatives and made concrete steps in many important areas and negotiated agreements to introduce legislation in dozens of sectors, including on the digital single market, the economy and unemployment. as a member of the roaming management negotiating team, i am particularly proud that the file which has benefited millions of citizens was closed during the presidency. it is no surprise that malta has been lauded for such excellent and impressive work. malta is a small country but it has shown that the size of a country is not as important as the seriousness, determination and capacity of its people. mr prime minister, this is malta.
president, prime minister, honestly the way the debate has started to develop and even the way it has started to take a certain direction at the beginning irritates me, almost offends me, because this is not a question of small countries versus big countries. this is the solidarity that i, there again, expect from the european union but, in particular, from this parliament, because it is not a question of size or the size of the country but it is a question of the power of ideas, it is a question of the energy and the determination of a country and its people who really want to make a difference; to understand people's needs and to push forward those laws that they believe can make a difference in people's lives. and yes, i agree with some of my colleagues and i agree with the prime minister himself, who has mentioned the issue of immigration. a small country like malta - and i come from a small country like malta - understands the need to really show solidarity not just in words but really in deeds. we understand that we need to take action and action quickly. time for a boastful speech is over but we really want to do our best so that each and every one of us - no matter how small or big - can pool our efforts together to make this european union really relevant and make a difference in people's lives.
mr president, yes, the biggest challenge for us in the coming years, namely the ability to find a balance between economic growth and sustainability - and so we are asking how are we going to tackle this? it is essential that workers are able to adapt and find employment that is comparable to their qualifications and are able to transfer their skills between businesses and between industries. training and learning is necessary to ensure that employment growth is matched by labour supply, and this applies not only to those workers of advanced age but also to those who have entered the world of work for the first time. we need to invest in workers to unlock the full potential of the digital market and new forms of work. member countries should be encouraged to invest in lifelong learning programmes for all workers in all sectors. we also need to analyse labour markets to find the right balance between vocational and university training, thereby closing the link between demand and supply of the labour market. fostering and stimulating entrepreneurship is crucial, also in terms of ensuring growth and survival within diverse labour markets. the second thing is that entrepreneurship is not only for job seekers, but also for job creators.
in writing. – the road to hell is paved with good intentions. it is sad but probable that current ideas to launch an eu defence plan could bear out this dictum. an eu defence plan can only work if it is based on a clear definition of what the common eu interest is by way of security and defence against external threats from state entities. that definition does not yet exist in a coherent manner. moreover, such a plan would need a military doctrine explaining how security/defence interests would be ensured, based on pooled or jointly coordinated resources, able to conduct warfare. no such doctrine seems available for the foreseeable future. worse, according to current thinking, internal and external security are different sides of the same coin. not true. so the defence plan will likely proceed on the basis of contingent military responses, ad hoc. though the european industrial-military complex is right to lobby for a harmonised armaments market, this does not justify a ‘defence plan’ and is achievable without it. likely too, a ‘defence plan’ will overlook the interests of neutral countries while another european dual structure of ins-and-outs takes shape. is this really worth it? i think not.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me start straightaway by congratulating you, seb, on the amazing work you carried out. i know it wasn’t an easy task, but you managed to come up with a very good and well-balanced report, and congratulations once again for that. as we have heard today, today’s challenges call for both policies and approaches, because we have a number of challenges. for example, global economic growth is far from being robust. fast technological progress and globalisation are creating opportunities for some, but they are causing immense challenges for others. we have societies that are aging rapidly and others with as much as 66% of the population under the age of 26. the former are finding it difficult to support their aging population; the latter are finding it difficult to create enough opportunities for their young. many countries are also being impacted by great natural disasters and with climate change, weather events will continue to worsen for decades to come. and this is why we need to make sure that the sustainable development goals are implemented and are not merely words on paper. this is why today and every single day until the goals are achieved, we must take concrete steps to make the world more sustainable. but to do this, leadership in all countries and at all levels of society is badly needed. governments, parliaments, businesses, civil society organisations, the media and citizens need to be all engaged to find efficient sustainable solutions locally, nationally and also globally. this is an issue of international solidarity. it will not be an easy task. it will take a lot of effort, but it is our responsibility to work together and address this very important issue.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the speakers for their constructive comments. i have already underlined some steps that have been taken by my colleague commissioner vella to put pressure on norway to stop whale hunting, and i would like to answer the question: why does the commission not have information about the quantities and destinations of whale meat transported via eu ports? from my homework on the subject, it is clear that the commission does not have statistics on the quantities of whale meat transiting through ports of eu member states, as there is no obligation under the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) to report the volume of cites-listed products transiting through the territories of cites states parties. the authorities in the eu member states are, however, fully aware of their obligations to control shipments of cites-listed products transiting through their ports. the commission has discussed this issue with eu member states on several occasions. as i stated before, the commission intends to make sure that the eu continues to take an active position on whaling and works with its international partners to press for decisions consistent with the eu approach and leading to better conservation of whales worldwide. for that reason, the commission will present in september a proposal for a council decision establishing the position to be adopted on behalf of the european union at the next three meetings of the international whaling commission, including related inter-sessional meetings and actions. this proposal might also be the basis for further eu bilateral action vis-à-vis whaling countries.
in writing. – the eu has consistently supported in the international whaling commission (iwc) the global moratorium on commercial whaling. it has also clearly positioned itself against trade in whale products in cites meetings. it is therefore problematic that norway not only continues to take whales for commercial purposes but has also become the most prolific world whaler, killing more whales in the past two years than japan and iceland combined. norway’s practice of exporting whale products via eu member states’ ports also threatens the consistency of eu policies in relation to whales and other cetaceans. animals are sentient beings. whether they are wild, farm or domestic, animals should be treated with dignity and respect. animals have no voice or vote to protest against the atrocious behaviour of humans. we have to show how civil and caring we are by giving voice to these beings – which at times are more civil and loving than man. therefore, it is extremely important that the eu continue to take its strong position and necessary measures, together with its international partners, to engage with norway towards reaching decisions more consistent with the eu approach and leading to better conservation of whales worldwide.
in writing. – ‘fighting violence against women’ should no longer remain a phrase, but it should be acted upon. now we have the tools to do so. the istanbul convention has the potential to bring about the change in mentality that we need to effectively fight violence against women. violence against women is not female genital mutilation alone. it is not forced marriage only. it is domestic violence. it is sexual abuse. it is rape. it is emotional violence. it is also what some would not even consider: cyber-harassment, which unfortunately is still belittled as ‘not serious enough.’ this attitude completely ignores the scars left by this kind of harassment. this is also an issue of gender equality. we need legislation and policies that promote equality across the board. we need to publicly debate the topic. we have to stress that harassing, attacking or hitting women is not manly and it is definitely not acceptable.
mr president, the paris agreement requires action from all sectors and aviation should be no exception. this is amply evident at this point in time with all the natural events happening around us right now. the emission reduction and efforts that different eu industries make should be brought in line and the aviation sector has to take its share. a sound comparison of the overall ambition of the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation (corsia) with the eu emissions trading system (ets) is required and this can only be done against definite and agreed criteria. only through this can we ensure and determine an adequate scope for 2019. it is high time also for the international civil aviation organisation (icao) to prove that it is a proactive stakeholder, that can adopt effective climate measures that can be implemented by the industry and will really make a positive difference. here is a sincere appeal for more transparency. only full transparency can ensure trust and put everyone’s mind at rest on the reliability and quality of the information provided. i understand that the airline industry, like many other industries, operates on thin margins and obviously needs to stay on top of any financial risk. this is the balancing act that needs to be achieved as more industries understand that they need to act and invest now to be prepared for the upcoming challenges.
mr president, we can all agree that forests are clean and they clean the air. they provide oxygen, raw materials and energy and they are a crucial element to tackle climate change. on the one hand they can cool the climate, but at the same time intensive felling and deforestation can have serious negative climate impacts. we are aware of the important role that forests, land and ecosystems have if we want to reach our paris agreement targets. i could not help but follow the negative campaign that has been going on before the vote will be taken during this plenary, and i saw also amendments attacking the delicate position that was achieved in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on this legislation, and i believe that if we end up adopting a future reference level rather than one based on what is well documented and known, we will end up with a system which will not work and will not address our climate change concerns. the report of the parliament’s environment committee is a step towards a better climate policy. it aims at a robust and transparent accounting system for forestry emissions rather than one which will have the potential to hide emissions from increased forest cutting. once again we need a strong parliamentary position on lulucf: one that gives proof of our climate commitment and ensures the capacity of our forests to store carbon.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr president and commissioner, there is no doubt that this is an abuse case. it is a case of illegal use of a pesticide that has ended up in the human food chain and you, mr commissioner, have even called it a criminal case. however, the reality is that there are many people out there, including myself, who have raised serious doubts about the safety of the food we eat. for me it is not acceptable that there is a lack of timely information and a lack of transparency, as you mentioned. it is not acceptable that the member state in which the case was initiated has been aware of the case for months and is keeping it secret under the pretext of an ongoing investigation. when people got sick in the middle and when this foot-dragging led to the case spreading to just under 24 member states. to have one country take such a decision, which could have affected much more seriously the public health of people in all member states, is for me not only worrying and serious, but also unacceptable. and it is said, as you also said, that in this case the risk to human health is low; and very good. we were fortunate if that was the case. because it was so common that it was not. and here is my appeal to you, commissioner, but also to the council: let's see that the systems we have are really 'fool proof', that the information is given, that they are really effective and efficient, because otherwise we would be calling them 'rapid alert system' for nothing if they are not fast at all and do not trigger 'alert'. and i ask you, commissioner, to find out how we can have these systems between the commission and also the member states, brought together on one platform, to make sure that, yes, when there are such cases, the information is given, and given in time.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i am happy to see that there is broad support in this hemicycle for the approach the european union has taken and again here i have to say, the european union approach that brings together our diplomatic service, the work we have been doing with the member states in the relevant countries, in new york and we will continue to do that. first of all, increasing the economic pressure. i have seen that all of you are very much aware of the fact that when you do not have a situation where political will is expressed in a credible manner, or in any way at all, there is the need for more pressure to be put on the economic and political side, and here the key is the unity of the international community. this is why the vote in the un security council yesterday night was so important because it sent a message to north korea that the unity of the international community – from china that, yes indeed, plays a crucial role, to the russian federation, to the united states, to the european union, to all the other members of the un security council, so the entire international community – is strongly invested in this path. more pressure to open diplomatic channels: north korea has to feel the diplomatic pressure of a united international community. the european union will now do two things. on the economic path we will implement the un security council resolutions, as we have always done, in the most strict and complete manner. we will also do a second thing that is very important because, as you know very well, the economic relations between the european union and its member states on one side, and the dprk on the other, are not so relevant that they will have an economic impact that is, let us say, particularly impacting on the regime. so we will work to make sure that others implement the un security council resolutions, because some of you asked the crucial question that would probably come for later but it is also useful to put it on the table now: how come we are today in the situation where we are, in terms of developments in the dprk’s nuclear programme, under what is quite a severe regime of sanctions from the un system? here we have, together with our partners in the international community, a responsibility to work towards all third parties to make sure that the un-based decisions, the un security council sanctions, are implemented by all on the international scene. and third, as many of you supported, work will go on in defining together in the european union additional sanctions or additional autonomous measures that could complement the ones adopted by the security council. but i think that the message the un security council sent powerfully yesterday night was also the choice of diplomacy and of the political way rather than that of military escalation. and on this too the international community was united. and on this too, the european union brought its weight, its proposal, to bear; this was our line from the beginning: economic pressure also as a way to prevent the risk of a military spiral. on the diplomatic side then, what are we going to do as the european union from today onwards? first of all, work to keep international unity. this is essential. many of you referred to the risk of having to face a third world war. well, the unity of the international community, the unity of the p5, the unity of the un security council is somehow the best guarantee we can have that that tension, that crisis, will not develop in that direction. the un system is our point of reference; we have to prove that we trust the un system to prevent too major wars from happening. so first, we will continue to work with all – with all – to keep the unity of the international community. and again, when i say all, i mention the united states, i mention russia, i mention china – with whom we have been working very well in the past and with whom we have constantly in these months worked at my level with their foreign ministers in new york, and locally – to think together about how to open diplomatic channels. not diplomatic channels – because diplomatic channels, including with the dprk, are open; we have seven member states that have embassies in pyongyang. we have humanitarian programmes run by some member states in pyongyang and in the dprk. when i say diplomatic channels, i mean a system of mediation of diplomatic talks that can guarantee a credible engagement, because talks for talks are not necessarily a good idea. what we need is to create the conditions in the international community with all our partners, including with the european union, for credible and meaningful diplomatic negotiations. this is the second thing we will do. coordinate with our partners, starting with china, russia, the united states and our regional partners – the republic of korea needs to feel ownership and to lead the way somehow; the president has shown wisdom and determination, and i think we have somehow a privileged access and channel of exchange, we have regular contact with the foreign minister and again we will continue this very frequently – and with japan, to make sure that there is a concerted, united understanding of how best to open this credible diplomatic path. many of you referred to the experience, the knowledge that the european union has in this kind of a situation. we have obviously quite a deep knowledge and know-how and experience when it comes to nuclear negotiations, nuclear negotiations linked to sanction regimes. we have been running the iran negotiations for quite some years with a successful result. there the unity of the international community was key. but there was another element there that was essential and that we do not have at the moment in the situation of the dprk, which is the political will. you cannot mediate or offer the goodwill of an honest broker unless you see real determination, a real political will to engage in negotiations. that door, that little space still needs to be opened and this is where we need the unity of the international community to push for that little space to be opened, then we can definitely work for a diplomatic negotiation that might take a lot of time, but is always possible. again i do not particularly like the parallels between the situation in iran and in the dprk. the political systems are very different, their histories are very different. the two countries are completely different and i do not think it is a good service to the reality of history and of the current situation to make a parallel between the two, but yes, the confidence, the know-how, the skills, the experience of the european union in this field are ready to be used to accompany such a process, provided we start to see an opening in the political will to engage seriously to find a peaceful solution to this tension. (applause)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i am glad we are discussing the issue of migration again. i believe we have a serious responsibility as europeans to look at the facts. many times, in particular when electoral debates get heated or when political confrontations turn even more heated than electoral debates, we have the tendency to say a lot, without necessarily looking at the facts, and i would start with two facts. first, that there are no shortcuts when we deal with the issue of migration. it is a global massive phenomenon that does not relate only to the european union. it is a global phenomenon, with more movement of people within continents like africa or asia than towards the european union. there are no shortcuts; there is a complexity that needs to be faced as it is. the second fact is that the measures we have – finally – started to put in place are starting to show the first results. i believe that we must never forget the starting points, the fundamentals, and we should go back to basics, which is the human dimension of the phenomenon. behind every number that you hear on tv there are people: men, women, and children. people with names, stories, hopes, fears, expectations, and sometimes terrible stories to tell when they manage to tell them. the starting point for us is their continuing suffering and death. men, women and children who have left their homes in search of a better life. i have heard myself — and i believe many of you have done the same — stories from detention camps in libya; when we speak to migrants or aid workers in lampedusa you hear things no one should hear, and no one should live through. i have seen for myself the images of men and women marked like animals by the human smugglers. we have to realise that this is a new form of slavery and we are facing with this a tragedy that not one of us can underplay or ignore. at the same time, the work we have been doing over the last two years – and i say ‘finally’ because we have come too late to act as europeans on this issue – finally the things we have put in place in the last two years are starting to bear fruit. hundreds of thousands of people have been saved from death. let me be clear, even one that is not saved – even one – is too much, but the fact that we are starting to see the results of some policies that we have finally started to put in place, and that are starting to save lives and protect rights, is positive. thousands have received food and medicines, thanks to our cooperation with the un agencies and first of all, i would like to thank the iom, unhcr and unicef for the work they have started to do with us. they have always been doing this work, but we have developed a new partnership with them, reinforcing their work, providing political support, financial resources, access in some places to which they did not have access before. this partnership is for us the guiding line of our action. thousands were given the opportunity to go back home in a dignified, voluntary way and to begin a new life, thanks to the european union. we have, i believe, a responsibility to also look at these stories and continue with more determination on this path that we have finally started to walk. there has been a considerable reduction in the number of people crossing the mediterranean and the desert. the number of migrants risking their lives in the central mediterranean has gone down by 17% compared to last year. the number of people crossing through niger has dropped from over 330 000 in 2016 to less than 40 000 so far in 2017. these trends reflect the work we have done over the last year and more recently, together with member states, international organisations and in line with immigration compacts and the action plan on measures to support italy. dialogue with our partners in africa and beyond is progressing fast and well. this year alone, some 4 000 people returned voluntarily from niger. the number of people returning from libya has almost tripled, from 2 500 last year to over 7 000 this year up until now. reducing the number of crossings goes hand in hand for us with a renewed effort to fight effectively against smuggling and trafficking; fighting the business model, fighting the forms of organised crime that arranges this slavery in new forms. operation sophia continues its anti-smuggling operations at sea and the training and capacity building of the libyan coastguards. before the summer, the council amended the mandate of operation sophia. it also set up a monitoring mechanism for trainees so that we can ensure the long-term efficiency of training the libyan coastguards, monitoring the way in which they operate after we have trained them. this is essential, not only in terms of efficiency and the control of the seas. in terms of anti-smuggling activities, this is also a fundamental element for us to control the standards of human rights respect that are part of the training of the libyan coastguard and which we want to see fully implemented. as for libya’s borders, our border assistance mission is planning for a possible training and advisory mission inside the country. our engagement with the libyan authorities is increasing already, particularly on border management, law enforcement and in support of the criminal justice system. most recently we have launched a eur 46 million programme to help manage the southern border of libya, run together with the italian ministry of the interior. to the south of libya, we are present, as you might know, with three european union military missions in the sahel and with our support for the creation of a g5 sahel joint force. we signed a contract with eur 50 million just two months after our partners in the g5 countries had asked for support, establishing for the first time ever a joint force among them to better control the territory – which is very difficult territory to control: desert, long borders – with the precise aim of fighting and preventing terrorism and radicalisation but also smuggling and trafficking of all kinds, including the links between human smuggling and trafficking, arms trafficking and drug trafficking. we know very well there are many connections there that need to be broken, and they can be better broken by the local actors who know the territory, know the people, know the economies, know the communities. our work is to support them doing this difficult work for their own sake and also for the sake of those that put their lives in the hands of criminal organisations. in parallel, european union agencies such as europol and the european border and coast guard agency have greatly strengthened their capacity and improved their cooperation with our military missions and operations. in asia alone, 101 alleged smugglers have been brought before the court. another 79 have been arrested and 74 vehicles and motorcycles have been confiscated. this is the result of the work of our joint investigation teams together with our eucap mission and the authorities of niger. this is the partnership approach: defining the needs, working with the local authorities, setting the highest possible standards when it comes to human rights’ protection and putting the right resources at the disposal of those that know the local situation better. an initial success story that we now want to replicate at regional level, linking up countries of origin, transit and destination with the support of these un-eu agencies. and yet our commitment goes well beyond border management. i believe that the time when we had the illusion of managing migration flows only through border management has gone. we have now finally understood not only that we need to act as europeans all together but also that we need to act on what we usually define as the root causes: poverty, climate change, lack of democratic spaces, violations of human rights, opportunities for life. with our migration compacts we are discussing directly with our partners in africa – governments but also local authorities, civil society organisations, international agencies and ngos that are present on the ground – how to best invest in the sustainable development of these countries, of these communities, because in one single country, you can have areas where support in this respect is not particularly needed but maybe a few tens of kilometres away from there, you have a community that is completely exposed to the trafficking and the smuggling. so you need to diversify the approach, developing a partnership that is oriented to deliver results on the ground. the eu emergency trust fund for africa has with this approach already mobilised almost eur 2 billion and our investments are meant first and foremost to create jobs, create skills, and create better security conditions for growth. i can share with you an anecdote that maybe i told you before, about the first time i visited agadez. agadez is on the main route into libya, north of niger, in the middle of the desert, a beautiful place. i landed at an airport that is now basically closed, and the first thing i heard from the local community is ‘here, we have always welcomed tourists’. then the security situation deteriorated, the terrorist threat increased, tourists are not coming any more, the economy reconverted on smuggling and trafficking. so if you want to develop alternative economies, to offer alternatives to the youth of these communities, to stop the criminal organisations and to invest in sustainable, good economies you need also to work on the security side of the territory, otherwise a normal, strong, healthy economy would have more difficulties to take root. this is also a way of addressing the root causes of the migratory flows as well as is – and i have mentioned this here many times, and i think i have the full support of this hemicycle on this – our constant and determined work on climate change. so many people leave their communities because of the consequences of climate change, especially in the areas of the desert. the external investment plan, on which this parliament has worked so well – and i would like to thank here the three committees that have worked in a really remarkable way jointly and i know that many were sceptical about three committees working together on such a complicated measure – the external investment plan is now ready. it will mobilise unprecedented levels of private resources in the most fragile areas of africa and our region, with the objective of implementing the sustainable development goals, but at the end of the day the two agendas coincide, because if we had the sustainable development goals fully implemented, there would also be a clear impact on the migratory flows. no one invests as much as we do in africa. i know that some argue about the need for a marshall plan for africa. i often mention the amount of euro the european union and its member states invest in different forms, from development to humanitarian security, in africa. that is eur 20 billion every year. the external investment plan is going to mobilise even more, aiming at raising eur 44 billion in private investments. we definitely need to use this money in a sense of partnership with our african friends and i believe that the next eu-african union summit in abidjan at the end of november will be exactly this: moving from the concept of aid to the concept of partnership. working together and facing together common challenges and taking advantage together of common opportunities, and also working together on common issues we have close to our hearts: multilateralism, a certain way of understanding security and peace, climate change and the multilateral agenda. while we have initial steps forward that we need to recognise on migration, i think we have to keep very firmly in mind that we still have a very long and a very difficult way to go. i said at the beginning that there is no shortcut. we have internal contradictions in the european union and i am sure you will hear more from president junker about this tomorrow – it is not my fight – but it is important that we never close our eyes to the unacceptable conditions that so many human beings are still facing on the route. let me start with the detention centres in libya. as you know i do not hide the difficult topics, on the contrary, and let me tell you it is exactly because i heard the stories of those who were escaping from those detention centres and arrived in lampedusa that i keep a constant eye on how we can better protect and save lives. if you hear those stories once, believe me you do not forget them. our line here is clear: detention conditions at the moment fail to meet any basic condition of decency. detention centres in their current form should be closed. this is something we keep discussing in all our meetings with the libyan authorities. as long as these centres do exist inside libya, we are working with our international partners on the ground to guarantee they have access to these detention centres – a very difficult discussion to have and a very difficult thing to do given the security conditions inside libya – with the aim of improving the living conditions of the people that are currently in the centres, and i would like here to thank the courage and the determination of the iom, the unhcr, unicef, and their staff for the incredible work they have started to do. they have now developed a work inside libya, and that is the result of the common work we have started. we are supporting financially, politically and logistically, whenever we can, their work inside libya exactly for that purpose, because we see that things are unacceptable in these centres. but still, too few international staff are currently present in libya and we do want to see an increased international presence in the very short term. i will personally stress this point once again during my meetings in new york next week. while the humanitarian conditions of detention are our top concern, second comes the need to provide durable solutions for the people stuck inside libya because we have to realise that if detention centres were to be closed tomorrow – and as i said, we believe that under the current conditions we see in the detention centres that they should be closed or the conditions should be radically changed – but if they were to be closed tomorrow, thousands would be trapped and lost in a country that is in difficult security conditions and where they do not want to stay. so when i say there is a complexity of the phenomenon that needs to be tackled seriously, with no shortcuts, that is what i am talking about. and this is why we have chosen to invest in our partnership with the international organisations that have the knowledge and the highest international standards for human rights to help us in tackling this issue, for us and our partners, the authorities of, in this case, libya but it is also true for other countries. so we need to be ready to offer two clear paths here: for those in need of protection we need safe and legal avenues, including to europe and this is a debate that inside our own member states, in our national parliaments and probably also in this parliament – you know very well it is a difficult debate. but let me stress this. those in need of protection need to have safe legal avenues, including to europe. second, for those that are not in need of protection, we need to offer them a dignified safe way to go back home and restart a life in a community that has probably invested everything they had to send them away to look for a better future and send back remittances. going back means being accompanied back and this is where we come in also. we follow all along the way to offer ways to restart a life, a small business, a different kind of future once people are going back. last december, we started a programme with the iom that is showing first positive results. we intend to offer a safe way out to over 10 000 people by the end of the year, from libya. last but not least, we need to provide an alternative to local communities that rely on smuggling for their daily subsistence. i can think here of the many communities – i mentioned one just a few minutes ago – of northern niger or south of libya. in this field, we have launched massive investments to create jobs and provide training, but as i said, this is a work that we need to do together with the local communities, together with the local authorities and guaranteeing at the same time support for a better security environment in the region. ultimately, i think we can summarise this approach in one sentence. we need to replace the illegal economy of human trafficking and smuggling, the new slavery, with the regular system of opportunities and channels to safely reach europe and elsewhere for those in need. remembering one important thing which is, i know, very unpopular in our political domestic debates but which is the reality of our economy. if regular migrants in europe were to disappear tomorrow morning, entire sectors of our economies would collapse. it is something to keep in the back of our minds. it is clear that the european union cannot do this all alone. first of all we need to have the entire european union backing this approach. we need consistency and coherence, we need member states to invest in this approach consistently and with coherence – i was glad to see that many of them are now realising how important it is to invest in these partnerships – and we have to build global alliances to manage this phenomenon. one year ago, two years ago, it was all about the european migration crisis. i think that today we have managed – again, finally, and we are just starting to see the results – but we have managed to put in place some elements of an intelligent policy based on partnership that our african partners recognise as useful, that our international partners, starting with iom, unhcr and the un system recognise as right. we need to increase the work on the global compacts for migration and for refugees. next year we will have an important process leading to this. in the un system the eu, i believe, has the responsibility to build this partnership approach based especially on our eu-african partnership that we have developed over the last year, and we will relaunch even more strongly at the summit in abidjan.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, migration remains truly one of the greatest challenges of our generation. it is an issue that must be addressed – indeed that can only be addressed – by sincere cooperation between the european union, countries of origin and countries of transit. papering over the cracks without taking the tough decisions necessary to deal with the issue in the long term must no longer be an option. the joint statement touches on a number of important points, and i welcome the renewed focus that it gives to the issue. this means that we have to work hand in hand with countries, particularly in africa, not only to help build up their law enforcement, the judicial systems and border management, but also to help with their education systems and entrepreneurship and ensure a future for people closer to their homes – something this parliament has long called for. but we need more. we need to move the debate away from emergency solutions and emergency funds and start talking about long—term proposals and proper investment and economic cooperation strategies. we have to keep putting our money where our mouth is. it is not only about aid, but it is now also becoming about encouraging our companies to invest in africa. significantly, i welcome the focus on improving the conditions for migrants in libya. the horror stories we keep hearing make it impossible to ignore, as we have just said. at the same time, within europe we must ensure that those who are not entitled to international protection are returned to their countries of origin. this is essential if we are to direct our resources to give protection to those who need it. in conclusion, the reality on the ground is that, where there is no hope, the people will continue to look for any avenue to flee, irrespective of the risk to their lives. we must think long term and we must ensure that traffickers are not allowed to fill the void and exploit the most vulnerable. the european union has a crucial role to play on the world stage and in giving the issue more traction. we need to continue to move from statements to tangible concrete results. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for giving the opportunity to address another issue which i missed in my speech, and it’s precisely on this that i think this parliament can find consensus on this matter. you will find members from each political group that come together and say that we need to do more to help the situation we have with missing children and the trafficking of minors, and exposing the big problem we have with the exploitation of the most vulnerable – and yes, children are on top of that list.
in writing. – venezuela is facing a human rights and humanitarian crisis. the maduro administration enjoys a tremendous concentration of power that violates human rights and creates a deep economic crisis. this political violence has cost too many lives. opponents, including anti-government demonstrators, critics and opposition politicians have been arbitrarily arrested and prosecuted. venezuelan groups identify over 600 detainees as political prisoners. the security forces have committed egregious abuses, including torture. severe shortages of medicines, medical supplies and food have intensified since 2014, and weak government responses have undermined venezuelans’ rights to health and food. the shortage of food and medicines is affecting children, women and elderly people. we have to make sure that humanitarian corridors should be urgently opened in order to supply the people of venezuela with food and medicines.
in writing. – this year’s state of the union message gave a look back. it presented the remaining programme of activities the commission will implement by the end of its mandate and provided post-mandate strategic guidelines for the eu’s future development. we have swung from the depths of last year’s frustration and disappointment to a strong optimism. however, this is leading to contradictions as old integrative dreams for europe re-emerge. on the one hand, the claim is that the european project has to be further democratised and brought closer to the people. one the other, the suggestions are for further deepening, some to be implemented under the radar by an extension of existing rules and of the ‘community method’. the priority of ensuring consolidation by combatting through political means, the strong divergences existing between parts of the union, is likely to be lost. it happened in the past; it can happen again. deepening as of now will create new realities for which the political and economic mechanisms to manage them properly will be lacking. we should not let an unexpectedly good outturn deflect us from the strategic need to consolidate. otherwise, the past will beckon.
mr president, there are currently 80 million people with disabilities in the european union; the number will reach 120 million by 2020. it is unacceptable that in today's world, where we rely so heavily on digital technology, people with disabilities and the elderly find it difficult, if not impossible, to use digital products and services such as computers, telephony services and self-service terminals. this act shall be of benefit to people of all ages and with all forms of disability. it must be an act that makes a real difference to people with functional limitations, including the elderly. but i regret to note that in its current form, it is not doing so. we need an ambitious act. an act to create equal opportunities for millions of people with disabilities. an act to improve their situation so that millions of citizens can live independently and be included in society. that is why i will only support a text if it leads to a strong and ambitious accessibility act, and brings about real change in the lives of all people in europe. if not, i cannot support it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the text we have before us is important because it provides excellent guidelines regarding the collection of data we need to design to implement and to evaluate european policy in the coming years. there will be enormous needs for consolidation of policies with the probability that the deepening of eurozone governance will be attempted. the danger is that consolidation will lag. deepening could encourage further centrifugal effects on a systemic basis. to be able to detect such developments, we need statistics that are close to the bone and relevant to the issues. on that basis, one should be able to distinguish what is causal and what is contingent on developments between regions, nations, the north, south and east of the union. this applies, not least to the situation of peripheral and island regions, which is my special interest. overridingly, there is a problem of how to reverse the growing divergences between parts of the union. an essential step in that direction is a proper measurement of divergences. the text stresses rightly the social aspect of the data that will be needed. in that context, a priority area for statistical improvement would be labour data that captures the extent of precarious work, in-work poverty, youth and other under-employment of migrant workers.
mr president, the proposals before us attempt to counter a fundamental problem: the availability of equity and risk capital covering smes, start-ups and expansion projects. there is not the culture here, as in the us, for such financing to be mobilised through otcs or similar intermediaries. encouraging such a system in europe makes sense but the difficulties should not be underestimated. the people at the front line, by way of entrepreneurship, intermediation and regulation, need to be of top quality. they need to be innovative, flexible and knowledgeable about operating conditions on the ground. a strengthened supervisory role for the european securities and markets authority (esma) is needed, but effective regulation must remain light touch. initially, small-scale start-ups are quite likely to concentrate around digital, entertainment and social projects. attention should, however, be paid to appropriate incentives to encourage projects in fields such as light engineering, electronics and environmental technologies. projects by young people had better be given priority and promotional ties should be built between venture capital structures and relevant departments of universities and technical institutes. in this context, special programmes for peripheral and island regions should seek to tap there the existing potential for small-scale enterprise that is diminished by the high cost of risk capital in such regions.
mr president, mr commissioner, i think i got a lot of your description, commissioner, when you described this programme as the european union's most powerful tool for connecting with its citizens. we also mentioned that this is the 30th anniversary, so it is an occasion to celebrate the success of this programme. for me, however, it is also an opportunity, and i also reflect on a discussion i had with young people and students on this area, about the difficulties we are facing. difficulties, for example, arising from excessive bureaucracy in processing applications and delays, the difficulty that sometimes there is not the necessary agreement between educational institutions to recognise what students in different countries have learned. then there is the very real difficulty of not having enough knowledge to apply. so it is certainly an opportunity to recognise all that we have to do, at national and european level, with regard to the better implementation of this programme, where we have affirmed, as the commissioner has also pointed out here, the need to invest more funds. we have talked about more funds, more funding, in the next financial period because these are the keys to how we bring this programme to an increasing number of young people and students, and thus strengthen, also, the european identity.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is a key subject and i am glad it has been raised. i want to thank the rapporteur for her personal contribution, and indeed all the members for their engagement on this subject. as has been noted, cyber-attacks do not pay heed to geographical borders. they can be achieved at a surprisingly low cost, but with devastating effect, and they pose a risk to our security and sometimes to our democratic processes and institutions. which is why we need to promote our cybersecurity, and that indeed was the objective of the package of measures the commission issued on 19 september. as a number of you have suggested, we need to build on what already exists so we recognise the importance of the european union agency for network information and security (enisa) and of europol, but we need to strengthen the work that they have been doing and strengthen cooperation between the various agencies and instruments. we have the directive on the security of network and information systems. once that is fully implemented it will improve national cybersecurity capabilities, enhance cooperation between member states and require operators in important economic sectors such as energy, transport, banking and health, as well as digital service providers, to adopt risk-management measures, and report major incidents to national authorities. however, some of the attacks that we have seen recently, like the ‘wannacry’ attack and the ‘not petya’ attack, showed the need to do even more on resilience and on preparedness. resilience means being harder to attack and quicker to respond, so a proposed cybersecurity act would revise the mandate of enisa and reinforce it. we are also proposing to introduce an eu certification framework for internet-connected products and services. building on the cybersecurity public-private partnership, the commission has said that we want to create a network of cybersecurity competence centres and a new european cybersecurity research and competence centre at its hub. both network and centre would contribute to increased investment and reinforce capabilities across the european union. cybercrime should not pay. sadly, it will continue and will continue to grow as long as it does appear to pay, so we also need to take steps – as well as building our resilience – to improve deterrents and to make cybercrime easier to detect, trace and prosecute. we want law enforcement agencies to have the tools they need to tackle online crime effectively. the commission adopted a proposal for a directive on non-cash payment fraud, a crime that is worth some eur 1.5 billion in the eurozone alone. we take a technologically neutral approach, but we want to facilitate cross-border cooperation and ensure that this crime is treated as seriously as it deserves to be. we have said that, by the beginning of 2018, we will propose measures to improve cross-border access to electronic evidence for criminal investigations. with regard to encryption – mentioned by a number of you – when it comes to encryption in criminal investigations, we are reviewing possible options and possible ways forward, and we will revert both to the council and to this house. but we recognise, and we agree, that strong encryption is key to how we use the internet. it has a key role in maintaining effective cybersecurity. we recognise and respect that. finally, we agree with parliament’s calls for action to empower and protect children from online risks. the annual safer internet day is a flagship event promoting awareness amongst children, teachers and parents. next year’s safer internet day is on 6 february. the commission is considering launching a major eu-wide campaign covering online safety and cybersecurity for minors. our communication last week on tackling illegal content online also set out guidelines to encourage more effective identification and removal of illegal content, including material in relation to child sexual abuse. it explicitly encourages more proactive measures to tackle this scourge. i want to thank you again for your engagement on these issues. from the commission side we very much looking forward to continuing our discussion and dialogue with you on building our cybersecurity.
in writing. – it is a well—established fact that citizens’ everyday lives are becoming increasingly digital. our energy supply, our homes, our banking systems and even our hospitals are all today very much reliant on technology. and with great technology, comes great responsibility; a responsibility to ensure that citizens’ data is safe, critical infrastructure is not rendered inoperable, democracies and voting systems are not compromised, and that ultimately citizens lives aren’t put into jeopardy because of cyber-attacks, such as the ransomware attack which crippled the nhs just a short few months ago. let me be clear though, the technological advances which have made such attacks possible are not only challenges, but they are also opportunities. we must recognise that such progress has resulted in ample young talent youth who are ready to contribute to a greater good. this is why we are calling on the industry and governments to engage with white hat hackers – those who do what they do out of morality and not for monetary purposes. the eu cannot fight the fight against cybercrime alone – we must use our best resource; our youth.
madam president, there are more than 3 million eu citizens residing in the united kingdom and more than one million citizens of the united kingdom residing in the eu. they are all asking the same question: what will happen to me, to my family, to my job, to my business, to my studies? people are right to be worried about the future, because they do not really know what will happen come brexit day. moving to another country is a major decision, usually based on the rights that they would have in that country. that is why maintaining the whole set of eu rules on citizens’ rights, with the full application of the four freedoms and without imposing unnecessary hardship on the citizens of the eu living in the united kingdom and vice versa, is the main prerequisite for the success of these negotiations. the work of this chamber determines the fate of over 4 million citizens, and that is why we first need to defend people’s interests, and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. – in recent years child marriage has gained increasing prominence on international and national development agendas. each year, 15 million girls are married before the age of 18. child marriage is a crime recognised under the istanbul convention on violence against women, which we must end in order to achieve a fairer future for all. child brides face enormous challenges as a result of being married as children. child marriage is a complex issue: poverty, lack of education or different cultural practices. ending child marriage requires work across all sectors and at all levels. we must take a holistic approach to empower young girls through education, to ensure that systems that subject girls to child marriages are eroded through women’s leadership from the grassroots community upwards and that girls themselves are enabled and empowered to speak up in every way they can. today, we have a unique opportunity to act on this momentum and accelerate our efforts to help change the lives of girls and young women all over the world.
for me, the climate change conference in bonn is an important step towards progress on climate change. governments, yes, are important, but i believe this is the time for our cities, our businesses and our citizens to be the ones to lead the way forward. we cannot and should not be held hostage to the political momentum of one country, however great that country may be. let's change our approach to tackling climate change, from the usual top-down-to-bottom-down approach, to a bottom-up-to-bottom-policy approach, where instead of just talking about costs, let's talk about benefits, and there are many benefits. instead of focusing on what could happen tomorrow, let's start focusing on what's happening around us today. and this is all about the need to make the lives of our citizens much better. acting on climate change means for example starting to reduce asthma attacks in children, saving our family members from respiratory diseases, increasing the amount of years we can live ourselves, reducing, yes, our energy bills, improving our quality of life and increasing the number of jobs in our communities. cop23, i believe, will offer us an opportunity, if we want, to lead the climate discussion in solving problems and identifying opportunities. the more we adopt this type of attitude, the more likely we are to tackle this challenge effectively.
member of the commission. – mr president, yes, we will together follow the rule of law. it is crucial today for all of us, and i stress it because the commission is following the mandate from the pesticides and biocides regulation, and of course this commission started work in 2014 and started to deal with these very complex issues. we are here today debating the draft objection tabled in parliament against the commission regulation setting out criteria to identify endocrine disrupters in the context of the pesticides legislation. this proposal was sent by the commission to parliament and the council for scrutiny on 20 july. i strongly ask the honourable members to support the proposed criteria. i strongly request this. there is no benefit for health and the environment in keeping the interim criteria that are currently applicable. these are clearly not fit for purpose and this is recognised by all the stakeholders. indeed, they fail to identify those that are real endocrine disrupters. i would like to stress that our proposed criteria are protective of human health and the environment, and are based on the widely agreed world health organisation definition of an endocrine disrupter. the criteria are also designed to identify known and presumed endocrine disrupters on the basis of all available scientific information, including human and animal evidence, as well as in-vitro and in-silico data. furthermore, a ‘weight-of-evidence approach’ is to be used for the analysis of all the available scientific information. the commission’s proposal is thus based on science and reflects a reasonable approach. it is supported by a clear majority of member states. in fact, on 4 july this year after more than a year of intense negotiations, a qualified majority of member states supported the draft commission regulation setting criteria to identify endocrine disrupters for pesticides. twenty-one member states, representing more than 72% of the population, voted in favour, while those voting against, or abstaining, did so for different and sometimes opposite reasons. some wanted stricter criteria, others weaker criteria or more possibilities for derogation. the proposed criteria are therefore a careful compromise and i would like to draw your attention to that. yes, we know very well how difficult it is to build a compromise. this one would not have been reached without the inclusion of the specific provision which is at the centre of the draft objection tabled here in parliament. this particular provision was added at the request of some member states, during the negotiations – yes, during the negotiations – to improve their policy on sustainable use of pesticides, and was instrumental in getting the necessary support. and here we are discussing necessary support. the commission did not want to oppose a reasonable and limited exemption for substances which target only arthropods and have no impact on vertebrates (human or animal). the commission strongly believes that it has not exceeded its powers by including this provision in the draft commission regulation, as it does not concern an essential element of the regulation. furthermore, this provision is in line with the general objective of the regulation to promote the development and use of active substances that have, overall, more favourable properties in relation to the protection of human health and the environment. let me also remind the honourable members that, with the adoption of the draft regulation under scrutiny, the european union would become the first regulatory system in the world with legally binding criteria to define what an endocrine disrupter is and to apply those criteria to pesticides, not only with regard to human health but also with regard to the environment. i am aware that some consider the proposed criteria to be imperfect, for different reasons. however, their adoption would be a significant step forward compared to the current situation with respect to better protection of human health and the environment. we are not in a hurry: our concern, as always, is how to protect human health and the environment. i strongly believe we owe that better protection to european citizens and the european environment. only when the new criteria start to apply and we gain experience with them can we evaluate how they work in practice. the commission had proposed to evaluate and report on their functioning at the latest in seven years’ time. in addition, the adoption of the criteria would constitute a solid basis for the commission to advance in developing a new strategy on endocrine disrupters. without finalised criteria there is no chance of obtaining a horizontal perspective, in relation to various types of chemicals. we need to have final criteria now because otherwise there is no possibility of moving forward. this house has repeatedly asked the commission to come forward with criteria to identify endocrine disrupters. i believe we now have a solid compromise and criteria which represent a real step forward. therefore, and to conclude, i invite you to seize the opportunity for better protection of human health and the environment from endocrine disrupters in the area of pesticides by not supporting this objection, and by enabling the commission to adopt these protective criteria and move forward. otherwise we will remain in the same situation as now. today’s situation is very dangerous for people’s health and for the environment.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as a matter of fact, the issue of the definition of endocrine-disrupting chemicals, as was mentioned, has been an ongoing and contentious issue over the past years. and trust me, we are not enjoying it! however, it is totally unacceptable and uncalled for to place the responsibility of the delay in the adoption of identification criteria on the european parliament, particularly when the delay is mainly due to the unnecessary, and often biased, impact assessments carried out, despite the pressure from the european parliament. and yes, the european parliament has the right of scrutiny. if every time we object we are told that nothing else will be proposed, this is completely unacceptable. ultimately, as i have said, we have the right of scrutiny even when the commission thinks it should not be reminded of the limits of its regulatory power. yes, in this case the commission has exceeded the mandate granted by parliament and the council by coming back to the co-legislators’ decision to impose a strict ban on endocrine-disrupting pesticides. it is not acceptable that, in the current proposal, the commission incorporated a special exemption for certain types of pesticides. this goes way beyond what we asked for as the european parliament. furthermore, the way the proposal is presented, it is simply introducing a derogation – an exemption – that is creating an improper loophole in the regulation, allowing continuous use of dangerous pesticides. the commission’s task was to set scientific criteria – nothing more, nothing less – and we will not accept the commission deciding to go beyond its legislative power and introduce exemptions. that is why we want the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and submit a new one, setting strict, straightforward and legally sound, scientific criteria without this aforementioned derogation.
in writing. – proposals for reforming and deepening the eu have proliferated. in the european union, formally or informally, they must be acknowledged and taken into account. especially with regard to the eurozone, most proposals envisage further deepening of central management structures on a federalist basis. they then put a bracket around meaningful consolidation strategies. yet, these should be considered the top priority. one reason why it’s not happening follows from the dogma that the eurozone cannot operate as a transfer union. but that is the rationale behind any federal arrangement covering a monetary union. the us, a mature federal system, operating as a transfer union, has less controls on the policy options available to its component parts, than the eurozone already has as of now. meanwhile, the “terms of trade” defined by the eurozone’s implicit internal exchange rate, actually make it a sytemic ‘transfer union’ from south and east to north and centre. the eu should aim to bridge these contradictions through a political settlement. firstly, it must focus on convergence between economies and consolidation of existing euro management structures. otherwise, deepening of the eurosystem will remain either a chimera or a further curb on the weaker, smaller member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you, mr president, thank you, commissioner, for your dedication to this subject. i would also like to thank my colleagues who have worked so hard on this project over the years, starting with monika macovei and barbara matera, when our group was in the uk. this office is really important. when we wrote and worked on the treaty of lisbon, we recognised the need to create an office whose purpose is to protect the financial interests of the european union. there were some doubts about this office when we started discussing it but over the years we have seen its importance. and so i would like to be able to be in this room again and see that every member state of the european union can join this office, because this is an office that can so send the message that every member state of the european union is in favour of fighting cross-border fraud. these are things that we can all be on-board with and i again call on every member state, every government that sits in the council of ministers to see and hear the call of the european commission, so that everyone can join this office. i for my part can continue to show my support, of our group, for this european prosecutor and will continue to work to make him truly efficient in what he does in his activities always in accordance with the purpose of the powers conferred on him in the treaty.
reform is of paramount importance, and the road to a union that is more united, stronger and more democratic can only be considered a positive step if the european union and all its institutions, including the agencies, enjoy the confidence of the public. i am speaking in particular of the recent developments on glyphosate and also on endocrine disruptors because they raise serious concerns about the way in which the european union agencies on chemicals are working and also about food safety. their job should be to provide scientific data that is independent and conclusions that citizens can trust about the safety of the chemicals they come into contact with. the reliance of echa and also efsa on studies provided by industries is creating serious mistrust and this is raising questions about the independence and even the reliability of these agencies. in fact the agencies are saying that they follow the rules. if this is the case, then we should look again at the rules, and the commission's 2018 work programme should address this.
in writing. the murder of daphne caruana galizia is a horrible crime, which can never be justified. it is not just an attack on an individual person, but on malta, europe and the values of all maltese people. we must not let this vile act undermine democracy in our country. nor should we let its consequences divide our country and the maltese people. together, we must ensure that justice is done. it is unacceptable that malta ends up being held hostage by someone who wants to use a terrorist attack to harm our country and our people. we deplore the fact that some have taken this opportunity to cast doubt on the commitment of the maltese authorities to the democratic values of the rule of law and freedom of expression. these values shape modern, effective and strong democracies. as a democratic country, malta has always defended them. this will continue to be the case. the maltese government did well to mobilise all available resources to investigate the case to the fullest, and to call on the european security services to help catch the culprits behind this shocking murder. the support shown by the european political forces in the house to even help with the ongoing investigations is of the greatest encouragement to the maltese people. it is good that the european union stands united with the maltese people at this difficult time. anyone who tries to disrupt this multi-party unity is undermining the cause of democracy, justice and free expression in malta and in europe.
in writing. the murder of daphne caruana galizia is a horrible crime, which can never be justified. it is not just an attack on an individual person, but on malta, europe and the values of all maltese people. we must not let this vile act undermine democracy in our country. nor should we let its consequences divide our country and the maltese people. together, we must ensure that justice is done. it is unacceptable that malta ends up being held hostage by someone who wants to use a terrorist attack to harm our country and our people. we deplore the fact that some have taken this opportunity to cast doubt on the commitment of the maltese authorities to the democratic values of the rule of law and freedom of expression. these values shape modern, effective and strong democracies. as a democratic country, malta has always defended them. this will continue to be the case. the maltese government did well to mobilise all available resources to investigate the case to the fullest, and to call on the european security services to help catch the culprits behind this shocking murder. the support shown by the european political forces in the house to even help with the ongoing investigations is of the greatest encouragement to the maltese people. it is good that the european union stands united with the maltese people at this difficult time. anyone who tries to disrupt this multi-party unity is undermining the cause of democracy, justice and free expression in malta and in europe.
in writing. the murder of daphne caruana galizia is a horrible crime, which can never be justified. it is not just an attack on an individual person, but on malta, europe and the values of all maltese people. we must not let this vile act undermine democracy in our country. nor should we let its consequences divide our country and the maltese people. together, we must ensure that justice is done. it is unacceptable that malta ends up being held hostage by someone who wants to use a terrorist attack to harm our country and our people. we deplore the fact that some have taken this opportunity to cast doubt on the commitment of the maltese authorities to the democratic values of the rule of law and freedom of expression. these values shape modern, effective and strong democracies. as a democratic country, malta has always defended them. this will continue to be the case. the maltese government did well to mobilise all available resources to investigate the case to the fullest, and to call on the european security services to help catch the culprits behind this shocking murder. the support shown by the european political forces in the house to even help with the ongoing investigations is of the greatest encouragement to the maltese people. it is good that the european union stands united with the maltese people at this difficult time. anyone who tries to disrupt this multi-party unity is undermining the cause of democracy, justice and free expression in malta and in europe.
mr president, today we are talking about the fight against trafficking in human beings, and such a fight must start on land and not just focus on the sea. why do i say that? because the european union has too often concentrated its efforts on naval missions, but the result of these operations has not been what was expected. for example operation sophia was created to break the business model of human traffickers. but human trafficking continues unabated in the mediterranean. it is most evident that traffickers are changing their business plan as the european union responds to the immigration crisis. worse, it also means that the criminals behind these human trafficking rings, which are widespread and pan-continental, are always one step ahead. we can and must break this business model of criminals who are making so much money off of human trafficking. and so, it is precisely for this reason that i believe that the european union must focus its efforts on libya and on the member states by investigating, if necessary also with the help of international forces, these criminal circles.
mr president, what we are doing here has got to be judged politically. social items in the european semester should have been given more priority. we have grown used to the idea that populist discourse, populist and extremist movements, have grown as a consequence of the 2008 crisis. the austerity, the rigid budgetary rules that were introduced in the eurozone, were meant to reengineer growth and prosperity. meanwhile, established centrist parties – especially on the left – lost huge amounts of votes. they expected to get them back when growth reappeared. this semester’s premises seem to show that it has done so. growth has reappeared. but the political situation remains bleak. a few weeks ago, president juncker said that the window of opportunity had opened for new steps in the european construction to be taken fast. following the german, the austrian and the czech elections, matters look murkier. is it that voters disbelieve that growth is back, or is there something within the present growth that they do not like? are social disparities decreasing, or are they widening? politically, we need replies to these questions, which again means that the european semester should make the content of its social chapters more relevant and more effective.
mr president, i join everyone in congratulating the rapporteur on his report, which identifies a number of important aspects relating to a subject which is at the heart of european democratic life, because the implementation of european law is precisely what gives european citizens the guarantee to benefit from our countries' membership of the european union itself. it makes some references also that are relevant for malta, for example in paragraph 16 it identifies shortcomings when there are delays, even in the application of laws affecting fraud or money laundering. the report's findings are also linked to very serious situations, serious even in the light of the panama papers revelations, and therefore, when our country fails to implement, either in a timely manner or even correctly, the measures relating to money laundering, it is detrimental to the lives of our citizens. one cannot also fail to refer to the reports we have had in the media, including regarding interference in the operation of the fiau, which is the agency tasked with guarding against money laundering or even more recent reports about pilatus bank being implicated also regarding illicit activity where it is acting as a bully to the local media to ensure that they remove even from their archives any material that it considers offensive to it. the european union is built on the rule of law. it is precisely in this parliament that we have had the opportunity in recent days to pay tribute to the memory of the investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia, who did all her work to ensure that the rule of law prevailed and to be at the forefront, even in very important investigations. i close with a comment to another paragraph mentioning whistleblowers. the report says that they should be encouraged and not hindered. this is also important because in some countries, unfortunately including malta, you have situations where, the whistleblower is encouraged or hindered, depending on what he says, whether or not he agrees with those in power.
mr president, in the online digital world, there are no borders. this makes it very difficult for consumers and national authorities to tackle any problems emanating from the digital single market. consumers are often confused and powerless and find themselves in a catch-22 situation. they do not know which authority to contact, who is responsible or who can help them. even if they contact the right authority, the authority itself is limited by the procedures of its own national regulations. not only are consumers powerless but so is the national authority. this is unacceptable in a modern digital single market. challenges must be addressed by creating a digital environment, by adopting digitally proved consumer laws that can ensure strong and enforceable consumer rights for everyone in the eu. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, olga sehnalová, for finalising this proposal during the maltese presidency. this legislation will empower public authorities by giving them improved tools to protect consumers from rogue traders, particularly in online cross-border negotiations.
madam president, this house prides itself on being strong in the defence of human rights and the rule of law according to our common human european values, but to remain strong the action it takes must be based on due process that collects facts as evidence, puts them in context and assesses them as a whole. otherwise this parliament risks losing credibility. worse, it risks devaluing the values that we all claim to believe in. a brutal assassination has taken place in malta. it has shocked us all. justice needs to be done. in the investigation the maltese government has called upon the dutch and us police authorities, as well as europol, for help, but the outcome of one murder investigation, whatever and whenever it is, cannot be held to reflect on the rule of law here or wherever. malta is being assailed for perceived deficiencies in the rule of law on the basis of jumbled facts and semi—facts, unproven allegations taken at face value, innuendos and issues irrelevant to the rule of law. is this being done as a tit—for—tat related to processes about the rule of law that other member states are being subjected to? yet the maltese government has repeatedly agreed to receive delegations of this parliament to investigate issues that are raised and it is still doing so. it has accepted – indeed invited – commission scrutiny over a variety of areas, as mr timmermans has told us. partisanship over the rule of law will undermine the moral basis of this house, when it has to raise issues related to it. this is being done because, in the wash of interests and allegiances that define this house, it is easiest for eu member states to overlook malta’s realities and to cast doubts on the motives of the maltese government. yet that government has just been re—elected with an absolute majority, possessed by no other party that is represented in this house. it has guided the maltese economy towards growth rates that are among the highest – if not the highest – in europe. attitudes in a debate like this should be objective. they are being tendentious. we need well—informed assessments. instead we have prejudice and polemical opinions brewed like instant coffee. subjected to such a methodology, all member states can be made to smell foul. if the joint motion before us passes as written, the credentials of this parliament to really show how to defend european values transparently and honestly could well be put at risk.
the rule of law is one of the most important and essential values because without it, everything collapses. commissioner timmermans, the rule of law is being destroyed: when a bank caught laundering money of dictators from azerbaijan is allowed to operate in malta. why is that? because he's also laundering people's money in the maltese government. when the police commissioner is specifically chosen because of his incompetence. when the fiau, an anti-money laundering agency, reports extensive and unprecedented corruption involving the government; and the police take no action; when corruption is allowed to go on because the people involved are people in the government; when a culture of impunity becomes the norm in a country, it overturns everything. commissioner, we are gathered here today to tell you that the rule of law in malta needs your immediate and urgent intervention. these are not new words to you, mr. timmermans, because my colleagues and i wrote you officially months ago, and nothing has been done. my colleagues and i submitted parliamentary questions on this crisis, and nothing was done. we spoke about this situation in a parliamentary debate last june, and nothing was done. you and the council continue to defend the defenseless. i call on my colleagues in this house to remember the values that unite us and make us european. stop corruption and stand on the side of the people. this is not a fight against the maltese people, this is a fight for the maltese people, and to the caruana galizia family who are here with us today i say to them, your mother and your wife were a fearless woman, of phenomenal strength and courage. she was never afraid of threats, abuse, ridicule, and humiliation. more than that, she was a one-woman army, alone, fighting corruption and abuse of power because no one else had the courage to do it with her. to her children i would like to say: i'm not gonna let daphne's murder go to waste, and i'm telling her that as my friend, i'm not gonna let her murder go to waste. commissioner, start an investigation now. mr timmermans, let's finish together what daphne started; do not ignore us any more, please. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, standing up here today is not easy. standing up rarely is. i represent a fiercely proud people, a hard—working people. we maltese have worked tirelessly for everything we’ve ever had, and battled geography to claim our rightful place as eu members. that is the malta i know and that is the malta i fight for. but all is not well in my country today, and to remain silent is to be complicit. too many people have sacrificed too much for me not to speak as our authorities pillage our children’s legacy and destroy our reputation. to this house i would say: you have become the last bastion of hope for the people we represent, and this is what the eu means to us – hope, and a guarantee that the rule of law will always be protected, because joining the eu was our way of ensuring that no politician with delusions of grandeur would ever trample on our rights again without our european partners stepping in to help us. daphne caruana galizia was executed – assassinated – and her killing exposed the urgency of the situation in malta, where the ruling party has used its majority to ride roughshod over the rule of law. malta is a great country, but we have to have the courage to say that it is unacceptable that journalists are killed with impunity, that it is outrageous that the press is under threat, and that it is disgraceful that the police refuse to investigate corruption. because we know that there can be no rule of law without law enforcement, that there can be no true democracy with a shackled media, and that there can be no justice when those exposing crimes are the ones targeted. instead of facing the issue, our prime minister spends his time addressing rallies, calling us traitors, claiming he is defending malta, even from europe. he thinks he can intimidate everyone, but we will not be silent, and neither should the commission: it should launch a rule-of-law dialogue with the maltese authorities and help our country move forward. the situation is desperate. i ask all of you: stand with us, do not let us down now that we need you most. (applause)
indeed, it has been a difficult few weeks for malta after the atrocious murder of daphne caruana galizia, but against the unfair impression being given in this parliament, malta has and is introducing strong and working laws, and yes, malta is ready to discuss where necessary, to be addressed, as it has already insisted. the european people's party is telling us that the rule of law in malta has collapsed. i ask you: in a country where the rule of law is collapsing, do new laws such as the party financing law enter into force? like lifting the statute of limitations on corruption by politicians? like the whistleblowers protection act? in a country where the government threatens freedom of expression, would a bill be introduced to amend the press act by proposing the removal of criminal libel, and a precautionary warrant in the case of civil libel? in a country without a rule of law, are they included among the best laws in favour of the lgbti community? these are all laws introduced in the last four years in malta's social democratic government, laws that the nationalist party, which is part of the epp family, has not even considered in twenty-five years. in a country where the rule of law is supposed to have collapsed there is secrecy and i refer here to the financial secrecy index by the tax justice network, which considers malta more transparent than countries such as germany, the united kingdom, and luxembourg, which are big players in offshore financial services. see this index, this index was not quoted in the joint resolution that this parliament will be voting on. malta does not say that it does not want to make amends where necessary, but unfortunately the haste of some in this parliament to condemn malta without even trying to make an objective analysis of reality is further confirming how double standards are adopted with different countries.
for the second time in five months the maltese state is in the dock - in the most discriminatory way - before the european parliament; and this is not normal. some are using this parliament to undermine a member state and to put a damper on a democratically elected government and to serve a partisan agenda. this resolution, no doubt written by maltese hands, is a mixture of points and accusations intended only to cast a dark shadow on malta and many of which have nothing to do with the rule of law. maltese institutions are not perfect, as they are not perfect in any other state. no state is free from crime - including financial crime; no country can claim to be free of scandals. it also does not mean that we should not fight all kinds of crime and abuses - indeed, what happened in malta happened and is happening in every other country, but in the case of malta, everything is being deliberately magnified to push a partisan agenda. each of you who is pointing your finger at malta has four fingers pointing back at you. the use of malta as a scapegoat is not something that should be accepted in this institution. the damage being done to malta is intentional and is endangering investments, jobs, the economy and the future of our country. the purpose of this resolution is not genuine but is intended to harm the maltese government, but above all to try to put malta in its place. you will not succeed.
i am proud to be in this parliament representing the maltese people, because the maltese people when they voted for our country's accession to the european union wanted precisely to have the rule of law and fundamental values, including freedom of expression, protected. we live in a most surreal situation. why is that? because today the person who is trying to tell us that he is investigating the murder of daphne caruana galizia is the same person who did nothing to investigate all the scandals that daphne caruana galizia revealed. today we are in the surreal situation that whoever is telling us that he wants to do justice to her in her death, of course he was not able to protect her in her life. today we are in the surreal situation that whoever raised her in her journalistic work is now saying that he wants to look at everything she wrote to see if he can get to the bottom of her murder. commission, the maltese people expect you to be the guardian of european values and not an apologist for one government or another.
mr president, i am glad to be able to take the floor after that contribution. the first words i ever heard a polish person say were ‘be not afraid’. growing up in malta, saint john paul was our inspiration, and he still is. to me, poland will always be the nation of my pope of solidarity, who stood up to be counted when it was easier to sit down – a land that inspires hope and has symbolised courage in the face of so much adversity. poland joining the european union was the crowning moment for the children of that revolution and it proved just how far the nation had come. we cannot allow it to take any further steps backwards. but poland has been let down by those leading it, who are weakening the democratic institutions and safeguards in the country, and who think that having an electoral majority means they can now do what they like. that is not how it works in our european union. the rule of law is important because it is our fail—safe to protect democracy. it is the basis of everything. in a time of free and social media, it is absolutely impossible to hide the truth and the true picture of the deplorable developments in poland. we have eyes and ears. nobody has to inform brussels what is going on – we already know. human rights and the rule of law are in increased danger – and no one is here to attack poland. poland is a country that must be at the very heart of our union, but, to that end, it must respect the rule of law. its leaders must engage with the commission in a constructive dialogue, and must respect the people who are courageous enough to stand up to them. yes, we still have serious concerns about the proposed law on the national council for the judiciary and about the proposed law on the supreme court. these must be addressed. we must send a message that we will not stand idly by while the very bases of democracy and the rule of law in poland are being undermined. we must insist that the polish authorities respect their moral and legal obligations as an eu member state. in conclusion, i look to my polish colleagues – colleagues like mr lewandowski – and i look to poles demonstrating that the polish nation and the polish government are not one and the same. i know that polish courage is something which still inspires. these are polish patriots, standing up for poland, and i salute them. be not afraid. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, the importance of the role of the european ombudsman in protecting citizens’ rights and strengthening citizens’ confidence and public trust in the european institutions cannot be emphasised enough. this is the only mechanism that holds the eu administration to account and investigates cases on behalf of our citizens. the european ombudsman is the guardian of good administration, ensuring that the eu institutions function properly and do not encroach upon citizens’ rights. in this regard, i would like to congratulate the ombudsman, emily o’reilly, for her excellent work in improving the quality and accessibility of the ombudsman’s services and for increasing the visibility and impact of the work of the european ombudsman. ms o’reilly, has accomplished a lot since her election by this house as european ombudsman, back in 2013. the quality of the ombudsman’s annual report has been improved. now the report is clearer and easy to read. public administrations need to become more citizen-friendly, and i think that you have achieved this milestone with your annual report. you have also improved the role of the ombudsman’s strategic inquiries and initiatives by pursuing, on your own initiative, important topics in the public interest of the european citizens, such as the transparency of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations. new working methods were introduced and case handling procedures were streamlined. this enables greater flexibility and efficiency of the ombudsman services, aimed at deepening the dialogue between people and institutions. you have also maintained excellent cooperation and a positive engagement with the european parliament and in particular with the committee on petitions. and last, but certainly not least, you have made the ombudsman services more visible. according to the flash eurobarometer survey of march 2016, 9 out of 10 eu citizens are familiar with their status as european citizens and their right to complain to the ombudsman. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable input during all stages of preparing this report: our cooperation was very fruitful and i did my best to accommodate most of their contributions. i think we all share the view that in such turbulent times, when the european union is facing unprecedented challenges – such as the unemployment crisis, the migration crisis, brexit – the role of the ombudsman in bridging the gap between people and the eu institutions is crucial. unfortunately, transparency, openness, access to information and documents, respect for the rights of citizens, and high ethical standards are still the top citizens’ concerns in the cases investigated by the european ombudsman. the level of quality of our institutions needs to be reflected in the level of support from european citizens. trust between citizens and the institutions is of paramount importance. we need to work on that if we are to get a mandate from our citizens to do what needs to be done to protect european citizens and europe. achieving the highest possible level of transparency and access to documents must be the rule. whenever there are any exceptions to this rule, they should always be weighed against the principles of democracy. i would just like to point out that 100% transparency will probably never be possible in the light of certain legal considerations. however, my report strives to have the highest possible level of transparency and access to documents, in particular when it comes to the eu’s economic and financial decision-making process, trade or trilogue negotiations, and even on the ongoing negotiations between the eu and the uk. the report also notes maladministration with regard to the code of conduct of commissioners. when it comes to ‘revolving door’ phenomenon of conflicts of interest, it is clear that the highest moral and ethical standards need to apply to all eu institutions. we need to secure respect, and this can only be done through absolute integrity and full independence from the private sector. we want to see a revision of the code of conduct of commissioners. in view of this, it is also time to comply with the ombudsman’s suggestions for improving the eu transparency register by making it a mandatory central transparency hub for all eu institutions and agencies. in view of the emphasis on good governance, i also want to support the award for good administration, which acknowledges best practices in the eu administration and which brings them to the attention of our citizens. finally, i would like to say that i am very satisfied with the report of the ombudsman and i wish her the best in her future work.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me repeat what i said earlier, i have to say the spanish translation of ombudsman is the one that appeals most to me ‘defensor del pueblo’, which is a very nice expression of this function. i want to conclude by expressing once again my gratitude to ms o’reilly for her constructive approach and the consistently good cooperation between the commission, the ombudsman and her office. the commission has also greatly appreciated the launch in 2016 by the ombudsman of an award for good administration. this ‘name-and-congratulate’ exercise is very rewarding for all those eu officials who are doing their utmost to serve citizens and the general eu interest. i reiterate my call for delivering real change on lobbying transparency in all three institutions. citizens have the right to know who is trying to influence the legislative process. so we need a mandatory transparency register, not just a voluntary one. we should not miss the opportunity to deliver this before the next european elections. let me be very clear about some apparent misunderstandings. the onus will not be on meps. the onus will be on the lobbyists to register, not on the meps they see. this will in no way limit the possibilities of meps to see their voters. we are talking about people who represent specific interests in lobbying when we are making legislation. this could perhaps take away some of the worries that i have registered, because transparency and trust are essential in public institutions, certainly at the european level where the distance with our citizens is too big. but also, more generally, society needs more transparency and trust in public institutions. strengthening the protection of whistle-blowers is an essential aspect of this. following the public consultation, the commission continues to assess the scope for further eu action and we will finalise this work in the first part of 2018. once again, a big thank-you to ms o’reilly.
ombudsman. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for all of their comments and observations, but most of all for their support for the work that i do. we are a very small office with just 80 people, but we have a big mandate and i rely on parliament, as a big institution, to support me. it is wonderfully gratifying to get the support from right across the chamber and i deeply appreciate it. i thank ms mizzi again for the report that she has done, which has also received such support among colleagues. a number of very interesting issues have been raised which we will follow up in the days and weeks ahead. just briefly, as we have gone round parliament today and over this week, a lot of us have seen some of the big billboards in relation to harassment, reminding people about appropriate workplace behaviour and this is something that i have been discussing with my colleagues. we have obviously taken complaints in the past and can continue to take complaints in relation to this, but we have had very few over the years. i think it needs a deeper conversation in relation to that and i am very happy to be part of that. on brexit, in relation to transparency, we started working on this particular issue as soon as the referendum was over. obviously it is not for me or any of us to tell member states what to do in relation to the release of important documents vis—à-vis citizens, and perhaps particularly those in the uk, but what i have done is to have discussions with the member state ombudsmen and information commissioners, including the uk information commissioner, to remind them that if they cannot get records from their own member state, there is always the possibility of seeking to get them from an eu institution that may also hold them. there has obviously been a lot of talk about revolving doors. we have been very busy with that over the last number of years. in relation to the commission and the code of conduct, we have conducted an investigation into that and we are expecting a response from the commission in relation to that, though i do acknowledge the proposals that have already been made by the commission in relation to that. a number of people mentioned limits to transparency. yes, of course, when i talk about transparency, i am not talking about transparency at any cost. we are always talking about the appropriate release of documents in the public interest and that has to be the guiding value. somebody said that my office, the office of the european ombudsman, is a mirror for the functioning of the eu and i think that is a wonderful way of describing it. in fact it describes parliament as well because what we all do is show back to the institutions the actual impact of the laws and the regulations that are passed here. so thank you very much indeed for your support and your comments, which i will follow up on and thank you, again, ms mizzi. (applause)
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank everyone for their contributions to this debate, and in particular the shadows and to the european commission as well as my assistant desislava dimitrova and the secretariat of the committee on petitions (peti). it is safe to say that we have a very positive attitude for this year’s report on the activities of the european ombudsman and that we all appreciate the important work done by ms o’reilly and her team. the peti committee supports you and your work, ms o’reilly, and i am sure that the european parliament and the ombudsman will continue to work very closely towards the successful implementation of the ombudsman’s recommendations emanating from this year’s annual report. we are on the right path, and that should be the conclusion of this journey. but let’s not fool ourselves. the eu has still to strive to achieve the highest level of accountability and transparency. maintaining citizens’ trust in the eu institutions, especially at a time of a great scepticism regarding the union project, must be our ultimate goal. we can start building this trust by guaranteeing citizens the right to the highest standards of public administration. we all have an obligation to represent european citizens in everything we do. we need to commit to improving the way in which the eu administration works, placing citizens at its heart, making sure that we work more transparently, that we are more accountable and that we react immediately when the highest standards are not met. regulation (ec) no 1049/200 needs to be revised so that we can facilitate the ombudsman’s work in scrutinising the granting of access to documents by parliament, the council and the commission. we also need to ensure that the european administration follows up on, and implements, the recommendations of the european ombudsman within a reasonable time frame. i say to ms o’reilly that i look forward to working closely with you, and i am sure that you will maintain your strong dedication to improving the quality of the european administration in answering enquiries and complaints from european citizens. it is in all our interests to make sure that your work is a success story.
in writing. – in the aftermath of 2008 economic crisis, austerity policies forced member states to cut expenditure for care and support services for people with disabilities. in the same period, the commission developed a ten-year strategy for people with disabilities, to better protect them and to align the eu with international standards. these principles and guidance in the strategy hardly match the budgetary cuts under the stability and growth pact. notwithstanding, at half of its life span, most member states, likewise the government in malta, are implementing the disability strategy through measures intended for every person with a disability to become an active citizen, with better opportunities in the labour market and better access to educational experience and social protection. the principles and guidance are well embraced across the eu, but the reality is that their full implementation is still hindered by strict budgetary rules. under the impetus of juncker’s commission there is a genuine recognition that the european project needs to put vigour back into its social dimension. my view is that in the 2020-2030 strategy, the commission should build on what has been already achieved at national level and include investments obligation for member states to boost social services and infrastructures.
yes, it is a very important exercise because, as we know, it also coincides with the 25th anniversary of the concept of european citizenship being recognised in the maastricht treaty. for me, i link citizenship, among other elements, to the protection of the rights of european citizens and that european citizens can look to the european institutions to be the shield of those rights. in this connection, i refer in particular to paragraph 31 of the resolution before us, which deals with freedom of expression. freedom of expression which, as we know, is also a right which includes the right of society to receive all the information that society feels it is entitled to. so in this respect, what has already been mentioned in this european parliament, the case, for example, of a bank in our country, of a bank in malta, bank pilatus, which put extraordinary pressure on an independent media to control the content of that media, is unacceptable behaviour. i close with the view that european citizens should look to the institutions to be their true shield, in particular, the shield of their fundamental rights.
in fact, in this chamber tonight we have heard how in libya there are thousands of people who are being tortured and abused every day. i don't have to repeat myself. but perhaps someone who lives in the north of europe, or comes from a large country, realizes little. i come from malta, a neighbour of libya, and i understand that this is a critical situation, a problem which has and will continue to have a huge impact on the whole mediterranean region and the european union as a whole. africa is a huge continent, with hundreds of thousands of people moving from one place to another every day. and what we're seeing in libya is just the tip of the iceberg. we cannot focus on the sea alone. if there is not an effort by everyone, and not the european union alone, to address serious issues of political governance, of climate change, of investment even by the private sector, then we will not start to address this problem. and no, we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to illegal immigration, human trafficking and criminal networks. at the same time, we have a duty to help the young people in this region. they are the catalysts of change. and we have given them the tools necessary to have the opportunity to rebuild their country as well.
in writing. – the schengen area is the largest free travel area in the world and the biggest achievement of the european union. it has marked a significant step forward for the benefit of people travelling in the enlarged schengen area with no internal border controls. romania and bulgaria have fulfilled all the necessary conditions and have made significant efforts to guarantee the security of the eu’s external borders. it is time to take the necessary steps to enable those countries to finally become full members of the schengen area in order to make citizens’ lives easier and boost our economies.
mr president, the employment sector is changing rapidly and this brings with it a number of issues that need our attention and that need to be addressed. we must realise that there is no one-size-fits-all solution for all european countries, although the challenges are common. for example, the challenges that every worker faces every day are our own and so it is our duty and duty to ensure that we have, for example, decent work for our citizens, with easy access to development and skills and training for the modernisation of our farms and those who use them. as rapporteur, for example, on the work-life balance directive, i believe that this directive, although very ambitious, is achievable. i believe that to achieve this balance between economic development and the needs of citizens, goodwill is needed from every sector, from every business, because in the end it will benefit everyone. a european pillar of social rights will therefore put the social dimension and the needs of people back at the forefront of the european agenda. and so i understand that all member states have the responsibility, as well as the will, to work with us and with the social partners to achieve these goals. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs tom and madame rodrigues and the other shadow rapporteurs for the very useful work they have done for all of us in this parliament.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a long night but i am more than happy to share these thoughts with the house. i would like to thank you for this debate about one of the most abhorrent issues of our times and i would especially like to express my thanks to our rapporteur, ms corazza bildt, for her personal investment on this issue, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs for their work. anna maria, you have done an excellent job. congratulations. child sexual abuse is an appalling crime that the commission is committed to eradicating, together with this parliament. this is a fight that we cannot relinquish or soften until we have entirely eradicated it. the child sexual abuse directive adopted in 2011 is an ambitious and comprehensive instrument that binds member states to achieve a number of objectives. we issued two extensive transposition reports in 2016 which assessed the implementation measures adopted by member states. i welcome parliament’s report, which builds on our work. member states have invested considerable effort to comply with their obligations. they have adopted around 300 legal acts amending criminal codes and procedures, sectoral legislation, increasing their administrative capacity and improving coordination of national actors. however, this progress needs to be followed up with further efforts. member states still face challenges related to prevention, intervention programmes for offenders, definition of offences, and assistance and support for victims. i therefore welcome parliament’s call on member states to further improve implementation because, for the children that are affected by this atrocious and inhuman crime, legislation on paper does not matter if it is not implemented and enforced properly. this is why ensuring complete implementation by member states of the child abuse directive is an utmost priority for the commission. in the coming months, we will continue to support member states to achieve conformity of their national implementation measures and we will make use of our enforcement powers under the treaties, if necessary. we will also support member states in facilitating the development and exchange of best practices in specific areas, such as prevention and intervention programmes. work is already underway in this regard. for example, we recently supported child protection projects such as the barnhuset, which is mentioned in the resolution, or integrated inter-agency and multidisciplinary support services for child victims of violence. we would like to see more member states integrate such child rights-based models, building on what has been done in the daphne promise project. we will share information with you on these different elements to the maximum extent possible regarding specific data requested by the rapporteur. while member states are not legally required to report data regarding follow-up of law enforcement authorities, delays in takedowns and use of stored data by judicial authorities, sharing of information is, of course, key. however, what matters most are the results, not reporting. member states have to remove, or block, content online linked to child sexual exploitation and pornography. this is what counts. the inhope network of hotlines plays a major role in practice in the transposition by member states of their obligation regarding removal and blocking. we will be launching, at parliament’s request, a study into the way the inhope hotlines work, including how they interact with national law enforcement authorities and internet providers, and how they could improve their effectiveness. i will be glad to share the findings with you once they are available. finally, we note in parliament’s report the strong calls on member states to adopt measures that go beyond their obligations under this directive. this includes: mandatory criminal background checks for persons working with children, exchange of information about child sex offenders, proactive searches of child sexual abuse material by hotlines and mandatory reporting by internal internet providers of child sexual abuse material detected in their infrastructure. these are very valuable suggestions and we will examine them carefully. thank you for your attention and i look forward to your valuable comments.
on behalf of the s&d group. other let me start by thanking mep corazza bildt and the other colleagues who worked on this report because i believe that together we have succeeded in coming to a report that is delivering a strong message. but i believe that in the fight against child sexual abuse, this is just the beginning. i believe that together we have succeeded in sending a strong and clear message to the european commission and the member states of where we, as a parliament, want to go. we are sending a clear message that, where children are concerned, much more needs to be done. children who are victims of sexual abuse and children exploited for abusive material must be protected. but countries, member states and institutions need to do much, much more. first, let me say, we need to stop referring to abusive content as child pornography. it is a term which i heard last night in this house, and unfortunately it was also heard by the commission, and i say this because there is nothing pornographic in child abuse material. it is a huge disrespect to the victims and their families who have already suffered enough from all they have been through. when we realize that it is not pornography, we can truly say that we have taken the fight seriously. it is also clear to me that countries can do more to implement the european union directive against child sexual abuse. and i stress here that blocking abusive material is not enough. material that is blocked in one country does not mean that it is not accessible in another country. and i ask: what justice is this? because we need to revitalise victims who are still remembered for the abuse they suffered. it is therefore necessary to remove this material altogether and to enforce this removal. if we really want to help victims, we must create appropriate remedies that also involve legal procedures. more resources are therefore needed to combat this phenomenon effectively. we want to give our citizens accessibility to the means by which they can report these cases of abusive material and i hope that the commission will act on this strong message sent by the european parliament.
mr president, the committee on petitions empowers eu citizens with the right to bring to the parliament issues which are important to them in their everyday lives and to have their concerns specifically addressed by the committee members. the right to submit a petition to the european parliament builds an important bridge that needs to be suitably protected and promoted. the petitions committee plays a vital role in reconnecting the eu with european citizens and in reinforcing the democratic legitimacy and accountability of the eu decision—making process. however, it should be noted that the number of petitions received is still not satisfactory when compared to the eu’s population. greater efforts are needed to increase awareness of, and to promote, the right to petition and the work of the petitions committee. i agree that there should be more communication through the press and social media in order to enhance awareness of the services offered by this committee. furthermore, an efficient response time to citizens’ petitions is paramount and assists in enhancing the importance of citizens to the european union.
in writing. – this is the time for innovation. the time for further investments, that can support a proper transition to a low—carbon economy and to low—emission alternatives in transport for the years to come. citizens are getting increasingly aware of the health impacts of air pollution and our countries have committed themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. this is the time to act. in this sense it is positive that an increasing number of countries are considering ending sales of new diesel and petrol cars: france and the uk by 2040, india by 2030, austria by 2030, malta probably by 2030, the netherlands and norway already by 2025. an irreversible shift to low—emission mobility is the way forward. for citizens it will mean cleaner air in our cities and eventually cheaper electric vehicles that can be affordable to all. for our economy it means more investment in innovation, research and development. let’s be the game changers. let’s push for improved consumer information. let’s empower citizens and decision makers to help push forward a much needed behavioural change. only through proactive action can we help increase a market for zero emission vehicles across the eu. proactive action is what we need at this point in time.
