mr president, indeed as co-rapporteur on the motion for a resolution on commission delegated regulation amending commission delegated regulation 216/1675 supplementing directive 215/849 by identifying high—risk third countries with strategic deficiency, i request to expedite the vote from tomorrow to today. this vote needs an absolute majority to be valid. this parliament should take our right to decide on delegated acts seriously. before we were mere bystanders. we know that attendance for the vote is better on wednesday than on thursday, and actually i think we should take all our delegated act votes on tuesday or wednesday. so let us demonstrate today that we mean business and take this vote today. (applause)
i am glad that the maltese presidency of the council has made migration a top priority for the european union and is calling for strong border controls. beautiful words, but we know what more surveillance of the external borders means so far: more efforts to pick up illegal migrants off the coast of libya and more eu travel agencies on the north african coast to point the way to free money and free healthcare in the eu. the way in which the eu is increasing its surveillance of the external borders has proved to be a road to hell, which will lead to more immigrants, with all the possible consequences. the security situation in the eu is dramatic. every major holiday, there's an islamic attack. our care is being abused on a massive scale, both in terms of asylum procedures and in terms of financial and medical assistance. mass immigration is leading to the disintegration of the eu and the collapse of our civilization. the only correct solution is to establish national borders, to stop and towing boats with unwanted aliens, to quickly deport illegal immigrants and to drive islam back from europe.
the latest eurobarometer survey shows that the majority of the maltese population wants to improve european animal welfare rules. i therefore ask the maltese presidency to commit to a new animal welfare strategy, with less intensive livestock farming and more protection for pets. but how credible would that be, when malta itself is a veritable and bloody battleground for birds? millions of migratory birds use malta as a resting place, but that rest is far from easy. at present, the autumn hunt is still in full swing, and dozens of bird species are being hunted. in the spring, over ten thousand hunters will kill many thousands of pigeons and quails in just three weeks. many other birds are illegally preyed upon by these hunters: grey shark, whale, swallow. these are just a few examples. this is unacceptable and in violation of all international conventions! you have a choice: malta as a beautiful mediterranean bird paradise or as a pleasure and murder island for pleasure hunters. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party president, more transfer of sovereignty, more money to failing eu policies and between the dining halls another great embarrassment for the dutch voters who said no en masse to the eu association agreement with ukraine and now have it pushed down their throats through the back door. our government leaders are even concluding that europeans must take more responsibility for their own security. that's the world upside down, because you have to stop looking away! the fact is that there is no beginning of a response to the war that islam has declared against us. and four days after the council, it became painfully clear again: we are not talking about a terrorist attack, we are talking about the islamic state, we are talking about a terrorist who could cause death and destruction. this time with a truck he crashes into a berlin christmas market, killing 11 and injuring 56. and after the attack, he travels from germany to the netherlands, belgium, france and italy. thanks to brussels' open borders policy, the attacker was able to go unhindered! fortunately, mr president, a fresh wind is blowing through europe and the resistance to everything you stand for is winning. the call for border controls, the fight against terrorism, de-islamization and sovereignty: this is louder than ever. and i am convinced that in the netherlands on 15 march the dutch voter will have to deal with the failed policies of this elite.
eighteen minibuses, ninety generators, 300 folding beds, 4,600 sleeping bags, a thousand blankets, a thousand pillows, 300 sets of bedding, 2,350 toilet bags with contents and two water pumps! that is what the proud netherlands has given greece to take in refugees! emergency aid provided by the netherlands and other member states to a crisis they themselves have caused by refusing to take in refugees from greece and italy. there are 10 000 refugees waiting for months for the agreed redistribution, but the netherlands is closing down reception centres! i think they're secretly happy in the capitals about this humanitarian disaster. photos of refugees in the snow, that's scary! thank you, generous donors of europe. but put those sheets and blankets on your own beds and let refugees from greece sit with you at your hearth!
thousands of asylum seekers are literally in the cold. despite promises of aid to greece, it has not been possible to ensure that people are received in a humane and safe manner. the fact that people are being frozen to death in europe is unacceptable and all european leaders should feel responsible for this. instead of pointing the finger at the greek government, they should be fulfilling their commitments to relieve greece and show solidarity with the refugees. member states still fail to meet their commitment to take in thousands of refugees from greece. in addition, they must respond to the call by easo to provide sufficient experts to speed up asylum procedures in greece and allow refugees from the islands to go to the mainland or back to turkey if they are rejected. moreover, european countries would resettle the most vulnerable syrian refugees from turkey on a large scale as part of the migration deal, which was supposed to prevent people from continuing to take illegal, dangerous routes. this agreement is also far from being fulfilled. if the european governments had kept their own agreements, no one would be out in the cold.
author. unity in diversity, the national motto of indonesia. tolerance between all groups, cultures and religions. it is the great responsibility of the european union, and therefore also of us here, to make a strong and persistent appeal to all the indonesian authorities in the context of mutual relations, because even very thoughtful circles in the archipelago, as i heard yesterday, are seriously afraid that the national pendulum is moving towards islamic fundamentalism and radicalism, that is intolerance. the trial of the current governor of jakarta is a sad illustration of this. its christian and chinese background are the obvious motives of the accusers. on the first day of the trial against ahok, his muslim opponents intimidated the judges, the opposite of unity in diversity! that is why we must sound the alarm with all the democratic forces in indonesia.
author. – madam president, the ties between the eu and indonesia go back many years, and they have never been stronger than today: we have the adoption of the eu-indonesia partnership and cooperation agreement, the negotiations on the fta and, last but not least, we had the relaunch of the european parliament-indonesia friendship group earlier this year. as part of our friendship, which is based on shared values of human rights, democracy and governance, united in diversity, it is crucial that we are able to discuss matters that concern us with each other. that is exactly the point of this resolution here today: we are concerned about the arrest and prosecution of peaceful demonstrators, concerned about the resumption of capital punishment, and concerned about the blasphemy case against governor ahok. we cannot stress enough the need to protect all human rights, particularly for minorities: freedom of belief, freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly. it is our duty to continue, and we look forward to doing that with the indonesian authorities in the framework of the human rights dialogue and beyond to make sure that the ‘united in diversity’ values that we both share will remain a crucial part of indonesian society.
mr president, i think big data is the fuel for the future, let me say. we know that it will contribute to solving a lot of society’s challenges. in healthcare, for instance, resource efficiency, intelligent transport, etc. let me make two remarks. firstly, we need the free movement of data across the borders and to address several legal uncertainties – and mr schwab has already spoken about this – preventing companies to treat europe as a one big market, not as 28 small separate markets. europe has repeatedly missed the last ten years, taking the leading role in new cloud business models. let us not allow this to happen again. secondly, it is of key importance to educate and enable our young people in the business sector. i strongly welcome the commission’s report for a european data science academy to bridge the skills gap in europe by designing curricula for data science training and data science education. i am personally active in this approach in the netherlands. we are helping a dutch academy in this field and it has already started in den bosch. there is a huge interest for that, not only for technical aspects but also ethical aspects. finally, there is – as i just said before – a role for the regions and the cities to take up such a kind of initiative, and during the consultation we will come forward with these kind of possibilities close to citizens and their future.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, mr tusk recently said that the united states of america is as great a threat to the eu as russia and the islamic state. is mr tusk suffering from irrational anxiety, from panic attacks that disturb his view on reality? president trump has rightfully introduced a temporary stop on the entry of citizens from countries that were already identified by his predecessor mr obama – as mr farage has said already – as countries that pose a threat to us security. this argument to improve border controls before allowing people to enter is completely valid. in the eu, we are directly suffering from the consequences of failing border control. we have suffered attacks in brussels, nice, paris and berlin, and many have lost their lives or were severely injured. trump called the eu a mess, and he’s right – it is a mess. the outcry against president trump is pure hypocrisy, as mr farage has already said. where were the protests against exclusion of israeli citizens by the same islamic countries that are now banned from the united states? you should be ashamed for jeopardising the lives of eu citizens because of the failing border controls in the eu. and i call upon mr tusk and the commission to follow the example of president trump: install national border control; keep jihadists out, not just from the seven countries that president trump has singled out, but from many more that are responsible for the wave of illegal migrants in the eu. (applause from certain quarters.)
earlier today, during the debate on president trump's ban on muslims, i heard you, commissioner mogherini, say that the european union will not turn its back on people who are entitled to protection. you also said that the travel ban is only a temporary and illusory solution. i agree with you, but i cannot reconcile that with your proposal to make arrangements with libya to stop refugees from reaching the coast and to pay a heavy price for that. refugees don't travel to europe because there's a hole in the border, refugees come to europe because they're fleeing war or poverty or hunger. throwing away development money to close a hole in the border when we can also spend it on opportunities for young people in africa, isn't that exactly what you warned us about earlier, a temporary and illusory solution? if we give libya a free pass to stop and detain refugees, we're doing exactly what we're saying to trump, which is turning our backs on the people who need protection. and you have read in die welt am sonntag about the german ambassador in niger who calls official libyan detention camps concentration camps as we know them from nazi germany? camps where people are executed when they get overcrowded, when there's a shortage of space. if we ignore that, then we don't need trump for our moral bankruptcy.
mr president, the high representative spoke today about the european way, when we critically debated president trump’s executive order, and while i cannot agree more that the eu must step up to the plate, as a values-based global player, we are hardly in a position to preach on migration or on the treatment of refugees. the deal, or so-called statement, with turkey, set the tone for cynical outsourcing of eu responsibilities. doctors without borders refuses european funds as a result. and look at the failure of european member state governments to secure our common borders, and to provide proper shelter for those fleeing war! they still do not have a common position on the war in syria, and the numbers of people coming to our shores and dying at sea are still very high. but instead of learning from past mistakes, this turkey arrangement now risks becoming a blueprint for more deals, including with libya. so i would like to know how refugee and migrant rights will be respected in a situation where camps are labelled as resembling concentration camps, and torture is taking place. how does managing borders square with the right to asylum and how do we make sure that eu ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the following: managing migration and saving lives: that is the title of this debate, and both are the last things the european union has done in the past year. because the eu does not manage migration, it facilitates it, and brussels does not save lives, it causes more victims. because thanks to your open-border policy, those illegal immigrants keep coming. on the way to social services, made fun of by years of eu policy of free healthcare, free housing and free money. and even now, no one, including here, can ignore the fact that terrorists among asylum seekers are not hysteria but reality, even now you are happily continuing to facilitate, to promote immigration to europe and to promote the loss of our freedom and our security. enough is enough. our borders must be closed.
more than 13 000 people have died in the mediterranean in recent years and our top priority here must be to prevent more people from drowning. i am convinced that the only way to prevent that is to make sure that people do not get into those old boats at all. so that means that our focus should be on the southern shores of the mediterranean and that we should work with the countries in the region to guard borders, to tackle criminal smugglers and to protect and monitor refugees. the plans presented by the commission here today are also very much in line with this. but of course, it's not new. in fact, it's something we've been calling for years. and when i look back over the past few years, i have to say that the harvest has been rather meagre. i have two questions about that. first, in june the european council called for measurable results and the first migration agreements to be concluded by the end of 2016. except in the case of niger, i see no sign of it at all and i wonder when we will finally make some progress on this. the second point about the libyan coast guard: what is a realistic timeframe for the libyan coast guard to get up and running to perform those tasks that you expect them to? and why do i not see anything in the commission's communication in the whole proposal about, for example, the full implementation of phase 2 and phase 3 of the eu navfor mission and the mandate given for this?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the commissioner has spoken of the immense challenges and the need to end the suffering of the people in south sudan. meanwhile, the un human rights committee has warned that south sudan is on the brink of genocide, starvation, gang rape and fighting between militias escalating to levels that seem to amount to ethnic cleansing. the gravity of these crimes and the extraordinary violence, while there is impunity for the perpetrators, has to end. besides these atrocities, we see a crackdown on civil society and the media, preventing accountability and documentation. so it is very urgent that we act now as the european union, as well as in context of cooperation with the african union and the united nations. we have to be aware that already hundreds of thousands have been killed since 2013 and over three million people have been displaced, and they in turn face starvation. it is crucial that the atrocities stop, a peace process is set up, and this cycle of violence, revenge, violence, revenge, must end. i welcome the fact that there is an arms embargo in place, but we must be vigilant also on the export of systems that allow for the tracking and tracing of people – surveillance, hacking and exfiltrating information. there are known cases where, despite sanctions, systems from the eu have still been exported, including to south sudan. so it is important that we ensure accountability and ensure that the eu takes a leading role in this terrible conflict.
just a week ago, the dutch press, reformatorisch dagblad, published a penetrating and impressive article about a shelter for street children in juba, the capital of south sudan. the title of the article was telling: "flat on the ground and sing and pray". the article also touched on the dire situation in south sudan. the street kids have all learned one important lesson. if soldiers ever show up at the gate and ask who belongs to which nation, the answer is simply: we are all south sudanese. that is a long way off in reality, but it is the future, we hope. the future of these street children, however, looks bleak as both the african union and the united nations warn of imminent genocide in south sudan. both organisations have therefore recently sounded the alarm and are calling for immediate international intervention. i want to emphasize that here because it's really going wrong.
i want european fishermen in and out of european waters to contribute to the good management of our fisheries and to ensure that fishing activities in and out of eu waters are based on the same principles. the same applies to the common fisheries policy. sustainable management of fish stocks must be the starting point. we must only fish where it is responsible, report transparently and not just flag flag it to dubious flag states when it is appropriate. a european flag on the stern of a fishing vessel should be a symbol of responsible management. unfortunately, the fishing vessels from china and russia, for example, follow different principles. europe cannot be part of this, but the european union must set a good example. we must continue to insist that we cannot allow the use of improper fishing methods, which would lead to the draining of the world's oceans. and we continue to call on those countries to change their policies. the commission proposal contains a single point which i cannot support, namely that the european commission would have the right to withdraw authorizations. i think that europe cannot do that, that is really something that is reserved for the member states. but for the rest i wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal.
(the speaker shows a large picture of the fishing vessel to which she refers in her speech.) this is the annelies ilena. the annelies ilena is 144 metres long and is europe's largest monster ship. this dutch vessel catches 400 tons of fish a day. it catches more fish in a week than 7,000 traditional african fishing boats catch in an entire year. when i think of the destruction that the annelies cause to ilena, i am ashamed to be dutch. in mauritania, this ship was nicknamed ship from hell. and that's not so crazy. the ship plundered the entire west african coast, and this is just one of dozens of monster boats that europe is sending across the world to fish the oceans. half of the fish we eat in europe comes from the third world, and that is unacceptable. the party for the animals supports the proposal to restrict charter agreements between european industrial fishermen and developing countries. as far as we're concerned, monster boats like the annelies ilena will remain on the chain. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
for the greens/efa group the mass demonstrations in bucharest last night and the days before showed that the romanians take their democracy very seriously. this morning i read that the minister for trade is going to resign because he does not want to consider these proposals. i also see this debate as supporting the call for a review. it must convey a sense of urgency to the romanian government because corruption is the rotten part of the system. it erodes trust in the rule of law and also trust between you and your neighbors. when that happens, you'll be a long, long way from home. commissioner timmermans was right when he said: romania is on the right track, the last few meters. why is this happening now? i appreciate your very clear statements. i suggest we go together because we've seen with hungary and poland what happens if we're not on time.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected. while europe is plagued by organized crime from the former soviet union, millions of georgians will soon be able to travel freely throughout europe. it was rather the asylum procedures that were massively abused by georgian criminals to come to european cities to rob, steal, extort and abuse. that will no longer be necessary, because visa exemption makes it super simple for criminals to go on a robbery spree. figures from 2016 showed that in one year in germany alone, more than 8,000 georgian criminals were registered, and brussels doesn't care about any of it. the netherlands must decide for itself who can and who cannot enter our country. the free movement of persons has now become the free movement of asylum seekers, terrorists and arms. my party is for safety. the pvv is against more european union and that is why my group is against the visa exemption for georgia. (the speaker will reply to a question on a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)). )
"blue card" is the answer. of course i do not support that. because freedom and security are the values that i defend, that my party defends. to defend it, what we need is not more european union, but less european union.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). the case is between the spanish government and the european commission. the case is under the judge. i think we should wait and see what comes out of there first. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension.
president. - in the past, when i was in the sixth grade of the primary school in driebergen, we had to take one guilder every monday for development aid, for the foster parents plan. that was all well and good until it was revealed that the director of the foster parents plan at the time earned about four times the salary of the prime minister. then the gold coins of all those children were not put in the collection boxes, but were spent at the local candy store. and let that be an example. because it's better to support the local middle class than thugs on the other side of the world. development aid is not about money going from rich europeans to poor africans. it's the other way around. money is going from poor europeans to rich african dictators and, of course, to highly paid ngo directors.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, ‘it is not always enough that we do our best; sometimes we have to do what is required’. with these words attributed to winston churchill, secretary of state john kerry made a very impressive speech in marrakesh during the cop 22 last year. he made absolutely clear that we have to do what is required instead of just doing our best. those words went through my head many times during our negotiations. are we doing our best or are we doing what is required? i am afraid we have not done that. yes, we did improve the original commission proposal here and there. we increased the ambition with a higher linear reduction factor. we do intend to cancel 800 million allowances and we found a way to limit the amount of free allowances given to industrial sectors with low trade intensity without endangering their competitiveness internationally. but we have to be honest; we also watered-down parts of the original proposal. we lowered the annual benchmark, we lowered the threshold for qualitative assessment and we opened a door to lower the auction share. the package that came out of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for me, is far from ideal, but it is the best that we could get out of it. does it pass the churchill test? is it doing what is required? i doubt it. let us make clear what is in the paris agreement: two degrees and even if possible stay close to the one point five degrees. two degrees means that we have only 20 years left of current global emissions. one point five degrees, we have less than five years left. that is close to nothing. to those who simply and only want to do their best, please vote wednesday in favour of the total environment committee package without any amendments. stick to it and you are not doing what is required; you are only doing your best.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to refer back to december 2015 when everyone in this room was applauding the paris agreement. as a green, i was happy to see how from the left to the right of parliament they were embracing paris. well, we are now discussing the only climate tool we have for european industry. that is what we are discussing here, so this is now the moment when all those nice words on paris should be translated into action. let us see what those words were worth, because we know that the current system is not functioning well enough and that is why, for example, one of the crucial elements is raising the linear reduction factor, which brings us a bit closer to paris, just a bit. we are now at the low end of the two degree scenario. so that is what we are doing. anyhow, in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety they managed to strike a deal spanning the political groups, from gue to ecr – a broad agreement in the environment committee – and they all said yes to this package, and yes, it has higher ambition, which makes it good for us, but it also has a lot of additional protection for industry. it protects, in addition, the fertiliser and the steel sector. it has a higher innovation fund. it gives new benchmarks. it provides a compensation fund for indirect costs; all kinds of things added. this has all been put together now, and yet this package is being attacked again. why? because of one sector which is complaining. maybe, first, everyone should realise that the rule is auctioning. when we single out sectors we do that by making them free allowances. that is singling out. we want to do that for those sectors which have international competition. looking at the cement sector, they have increased their exports because of the free allowances. they halted their innovation because they are dependent on those free allowances and therefore keep to high carbon cement, and they earned windfall profits of eur five billion in the last phase. that is what cement did with innovation, and that is what we are now going to address. we will put them back where they belong, outside free allocation. but we are giving them an alternative and that is the border adjustment measure. we are giving an alternative. we do not leave them on their own. that is exactly what we are doing. it is a balanced package and this will help us not to trigger the cross-sectoral correction factor, because now the real sectors deserving free allowances will get them, and that is what we should do.
thank you very much, mr president. thank you, congratulations also to the rapporteur, ian duncan, who is not listening but who chose a very unfortunate example of the jenga tower. mr duncan, as it happens to be, i am my family’s... (interruption from the floor: ‘ian, ian’) first of all, i congratulated you to your birthday, despite your very unfortunate example of the jenga tower because, as it happens, i am my family’s jenga champion, so i am available for a match at any time. i am confident, however, that on this issue i will not need too much of my jenga skills because i do think that, with frederick federley’s opinion in the committee on industry, research and energy, we had a very good opinion which then served as a basis of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i have a whole list in front of me, of the elements of frederick’s opinion that were then carried over to the environment committee report. i will mention just one of them, which is the free allowances – the 5% additional free allowances that are really, and should be, a key point to the entire parliament. hopefully we get broad support for that tomorrow, knowing that it is not very popular in council. on the border adjustment mechanism, it was never a secret and therefore cannot have come as a surprise that the epp group would prefer the broader and the fairer wording of the committee on industry, research and energy. you are looking at me very sternly mr president but i had to start over again because the rapporteur was not paying attention. let me just still say two more things. (interjection from the president: ‘no, no, the rapporteur not listening does not change the rules of procedure’) i was being nice to a colleague. since we started working on this issue, the world has changed. we now have someone in america who could easily walk the road of climate scepticism. that means that we in europe should choose leadership but that we also should not be naive. the others are playing hardball and therefore we should be prepared.
but, mr president, what should the european emissions trading system look like after 2020? well, i am glad that the environment committee has tightened up the proposals of the european commission. the present advance on duties is reminiscent of the milk-meadows and butter-mountains of yesteryear, and that was actually a sign of a failed european policy. so it's not that way. shipping can no longer be left out of the picture. i am in favour of a global arrangement but i am also in favour of the stick behind the door which is now included in the text. the shipping industry has until 2021 to reach a global agreement on co2 reduction in the international maritime organisation, but if that fails, the european union will take action. the aviation industry agreed in 2016 to a global emissions trading system that will start on a voluntary basis in 2020 and become mandatory in 2027. here too europe must lead the way, auctioning rights and reducing emissions.
the importance of a balanced composition of the european commission's expert groups was demonstrated in our investigation of the dieselgate affair. the high-level group cars 21 was composed mainly of representatives of the automotive industry. the commission listened to them, but the warnings from environmental organizations about possible fraudulent software hardly penetrated the commission's offices. for years the european parliament has been fighting against the dominance of the lobbyists of big business in expert groups, but it was only after parliament had frozen part of the funds allocated to the expert groups that the commission wanted to talk. i then had an informal dialogue with the commission, together with a group of like-minded meps. all of this was during the previous mandate. after the 2014 european elections, a stalemate emerged. the commission felt that we should simply show which groups of experts were unbalanced and then the commission services would take action. that's the world upside down, of course. this is understandable when one considers that there was only one official available in the commission secretariat to monitor compliance with the rules for expert groups that were already in place at the time. but it is the commission that must be the one to detect any abuses. the commission's proposal is that the council should be able to take a decision on the matter. the results were not good. the big companies still dominate in expert groups and they weren't very transparent anyway. minority views were not reflected, nor was the progress of the discussions. the discussion of this study showed that the commission was already working hard to tighten the rules. it is good news in itself, of course, but it was a great pity that there had been no informal or formal discussion of this at all. the commission was fully aware of our intention to draw up a formal report with a resolution on the expert groups. we finally got a sleeve to fit in here. i drew up a working document and the commission services replied in writing. there were some points of disagreement which we then discussed informally with vice-president timmermans. that discussion went well, but unfortunately many points were not included in the new rules and hence this report. the main demands we have are: one: the commission has also set clear criteria for the expertise it seeks. two , you 're not . the definition of the interests which the commission considers should be represented in the specific expert group and the balance between those interests. three , please . an effective system for dealing with complaints about the criteria and the definition of 'balance' in individual expert groups. fourth . the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the 'citizens' fund' for the purpose of providing financial support for the construction of the new airport. think of an sme which has to pay costs to keep its business open when it is itself part of an expert group. five , please . the commission will also be responsible for the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment. six , please . unless a qualified majority of the members of the expert group object, disclosure of agendas, background documents and minutes with clear guidelines on how detailed we need to be. seven , please . avoidance of conflicts of interest among participants on behalf of the academic institution, law firm or think tank. and finally , sufficient staff to monitor compliance with the rules. i very much hope that the commission will become a little more proactive after the unanimous adoption of this report in the committee on budgetary control. that is why we are asking the commission to report on the operation of the new rules before 1 july. a commission which says it is sympathetic to transparency should not be seen as pushing and pulling.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we still see images in the media of empty port areas or airports without air traffic, financed by the european union, or rocky areas for which subsidies are provided in the context of rural development. investigative journalists do a good job of uncovering and reporting such abuses. it is also a regular occurrence that concerned members of the committee on budgetary control receive letters from citizens about cases of alleged fraud and corruption involving european funds. and often they put a name at the bottom of the letter with all the information so that they can be contacted. investigative journalists and concerned citizens take risks. in the european union we have regulated the protection of trade secrets, but not the protection of whistleblowers. the european commission's anti-fraud office has a protocol on how to deal with whistleblowers and most european institutions now have implementing rules for internal staff too to protect them if they report wrongdoing. but outside of that, you're dependent on the goodwill of the officials or politicians who receive your information. this is the reaction of someone recently: the citizen who wrote to us is not asking for confidential treatment at all? why should we not mention his name? we do not know how it is regulated in the member states. even if we have good rules in the european institutions, whistleblowers can still be prosecuted at national level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayers are not subject to the same tax burden as the taxpayers. my report contains a large number of proposals to finally organise the protection of whistleblowers properly. better procedures within the european institutions themselves, desks with people who know how to handle information from whistleblowers and who guard the confidentiality of personal data. whistleblowers have a right to counsel, too. in the netherlands we have set up a whistleblower house, and there is a first study of the information that whistleblowers give. then whistle-blowers get advice on what to do next. such a house is at least as badly needed at european level. you're soon caught in the jungle of european institutions, and before you know it, it's not the abuses that are being dealt with, it's you. of course, the european parliament can take action itself. in theory, we could build a house like this for the whistleblowers themselves. but it is much better to have one house for all the european institutions. it is good and even necessary that information on abuses reaches parliament, but the european commission and the agencies can also benefit from that information. and let us not forget the important role of the european court of auditors and the european ombudsman. the legal basis for the national protection regime is article 325 of the eu treaty. it is precisely by focusing our attention first on whistleblowers who report abuses affecting the financial interests of the european union that we meet all the subsidiarity requirements, in my view. no one can protect his people from sticking their necks out to report abuses with our tax dollars, can they? it is important, then, that we make legislation that, while preventing misuse, really protects anyone who has a reasonable suspicion about the accuracy of his or her information. there is a lot of work for the commission to do here. i would like to point out once again that my report was adopted without a single vote against or abstention. the commission cannot ignore such a clear signal. and i am counting on swift and good initiatives. not words, but deeds.
mr president, it is good that we have this debate. from time to time the european parliament has to look in the mirror and trump and brexit provide every reason to do so. we'll never get the tired face of verhofstadt in that mirror. there is only one solution to the problems: eu more he wants to reduce the council to an advisory body and the commission should be able to make binding country-specific recommendations so that brussels can decide the budget for paris, the mortgage interest deduction for the hague, the bank restructuring in rome. let's please overcome this contradiction. the union and the member states must work in each other's continuum. i prefer to see europe as a shield that protects our citizens and at the same time conveys our values. i prefer to see europe as strengthening member states by doing what member states cannot do alone. this approach has its limitations, but at the same time it offers a great deal of potential, because europe has not always been that shield. the treaty calls for the pursuit of full employment, but the union lacks the means to achieve it. a clear example of this is the euro. the rate of unemployment of no more than five percent is reached by only two countries. her policy is not geared to that either. that is why i am glad that there is a road map for the euro, which recognises that the euro in its present form is not sustainable and that the euro can do so much better. a mutual guarantee should ensure that investment goes where it is needed and also strengthen the democratic control of parliaments, of the european parliament and of national parliaments. in short, a prime example of 'together we are stronger'. this may not be a federalist voice, but it is a very pro-european voice.
mr president, my colleague is complaining that i will talk for two minutes. i think what we have to stress here is that the discussion about the future of europe should not be only an institutional discussion. we should make it very clear to people why we are having this debate. it is not because we love institutional discussions here but because we know that the current europe is not delivering enough. it is not providing the protection or the future which europeans demand that we as politicians should deliver. that is why we are having this discussion. some people – in this room and certainly outside it – claim that going back to basics will deliver, but that is the biggest nonsense ever. just to mention one example, regarding tax evasion, something that our citizens are concerned about every day is seeing multinationals paying too little tax. why is that? because europe has no competence on this at all. it is a national competence and the national member states are competing downwards, making sure that, in the end, it will be the people, rather than companies, who pay taxes. that is precisely why ‘back to basics’ will not do. that goes also for the euro. if you look at the eurozone, some people still think that, as long as we follow the stability and growth pact, it will be fine. well, ireland and spain were following the stability and growth pact before the euro crisis. they were doing perfectly well and we still had problems. we had to take emergency measures without democratic control. we have a european stability mechanism (esm), in which it is very difficult to control where the money goes. we have a european central bank being forced to step in because politicians are not willing to do their job, and it is a bit cheap to now criticise the ecb for that. therefore, i am very happy that this parliament is supporting a budgetary capacity, because people need it. we need it in order for the euro to deliver. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for that strong political statement. i am happy that on thursday we will give that support as a parliament. however, very importantly, this discussion needs to be held in the national parliaments afterwards, because we will win support only if the national parliaments too, rather than just the european parliament, are looking for these kinds of solution. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – honourable colleague, when we are discussing the future of europe, you should not look only at the current president of the commission. what we are doing and putting in place here are solutions for the future and i hope that we do that beyond 2019. we have just heard that the commission president will serve only one term, but we are building solutions here for after 2019. the alternative is what we have now: 28 vetoes on any taxation decision. your lovely country, ireland, will block any change because they want to be the lowest, and others want to go to that level as well. this race to the bottom must stop, and you can stop it only if you take away the 28 vetoes which are a recipe for no change at all.
president, brussels has never solved a crisis. not the migration crisis, not the economic crisis, not the crisis of confidence. but parliament thinks that the euro crisis can be solved with a lot of extra money and power going to brussels, and that is ridiculous. because the euro is a stillborn baby. the differences in labour productivity have not been reduced. there has been no additional economic growth. the public debt has exploded and greece is proving to be a financial black hole. the european central bank is going beyond the treaty in monetary financing of banks and governments and the exchange rate has fallen off the scale. germany is losing billions on exports to countries outside the eu. dutch pensions are being cut permanently because of that idiotically low interest rate and purchasing power growth in the netherlands has been stagnant for 16 years now. and the european parliament thinks that all these problems will be solved if the eurozone gets its own government with extra money again. that, mr president, shows that this parliament has apparently learned nothing. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, my heart bleeds for greece. over the past five years, i have called here several times for greece to leave the euro. that is the only way to ensure that, not by internal devaluation of labour costs, but by the reintroduction of a real exchange rate between the new greek currency and the euro or whatever is left of it, greece will be able to compete again, to create growth again and to get jobs again and to be a proud sovereign state again. i hope so.
the situation for greek citizens is bad. since 2009, the greek economy has shrunk by about 25 percent, as has the level of prosperity. privatization has yielded far less than originally planned. and there are companies where the wage level has fallen by more than 40 percent. and yes, there are new figures that are hopeful, but there is also uncertainty about the disbursement of the new emergency loan, and that is partly due to the troika's call for further flexibility in the labour market, such as facilitating collective redundancies and decentralising collective bargaining. the commission's proposal to make collective redundancies easier at an unemployment rate of 23% seems absurd to me, but the prohibition of collective bargaining between the social partners on minimum wages is unacceptable. i say yes, we must make good agreements, but it is scandalous if we try to make agreements with greece which go against the european social charter or existing ilo conventions. we must be clear that we are negotiating money, but not our european values, especially at a time when there is a great need for value-driven politics rather than value-free facts. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. i may have been in a different debate than you, but i have heard colleagues here, including those from my group, speak about the affordability of debts, and that is an important point. but i also thought it was important from my position to say: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am proud of the european social charter. i am proud of the ilo standards and i want us to take them as a firm condition, as a starting point, for our greek colleagues as well.
president, the greek public debt was 175 percent of gross national product in 2013. it now stands at 186 percent of gross national product. and it's going to go to over 200 percent of gross national product. the imf has made it clear that the greek debt is unsustainable. the policy of "wet and dry" that has been followed so far is not working. i therefore fully understand mr dijsselbloem. i would not dare to appear here to defend that policy. what is needed for greece? a real social policy. greece's social policy includes an exit from the eurozone. because with their own drachma, they can grow economically again after devaluation. secondly, a real social policy for greece means debt cancellation. and a real social policy for greece means staying in the eu because then they can continue to benefit from eu funds. that's the solution. and to mrs berès, who refused a blue card, i would like to say: few people are wise enough to prefer useful criticism to treacherous praise.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would only say: what is new? nothing. russia is still occupying parts of eastern ukraine and it still has the crimea annexed and it is speeding up its military intervention in the east of ukraine. so unfortunately, what is new? nothing. can we accept it? no. we have sanctions, they should be continued, but it is also possible that if russia goes on in this way we will increase the sanctions and have more smart sanctions against russia. russia is active not only in ukraine, as we know, but also in georgia. it is active in a cyber way in the baltic states, so this is the russian policy. happily, the us ambassador to the united nations, the new ambassador, was quite strong in her condemnation when she was inaugurated in the security council. this policy by russia is wrong and it should be redressed. secondly, we need the association agreement and i am happy that the dutch government recently tabled again the introductory bill for the association agreement in the second chamber of the dutch parliament and after that it will be sent to the senate. so i hope that this will be completed in the foreseeable future, which means maybe two or three months. we need this association agreement. and again, we have to be tough because russia has to know that there is no alternative for it but to withdraw from ukraine, to give up crimea and to engage with us in a normal way, and i hope that the united states is at our side. so i hope that representatives of parliament, of the commission, of the council will also visit washington dc because this cooperation is, i think, vital. we are getting many signs and signals from washington. let us see what the real signal is. i hope that it is that of the ambassador to the united nations.
in writing. the provisional ceasefire in eastern ukraine has been seriously violated by russia once again, with the result that violence in the region has re-emerged. in addition to the many civilian casualties, tens of thousands of households in the village of avdiivka are currently without electricity, running water and heating, and that while the temperature is well below freezing. the russian aggression is a recurring obstacle to the implementation of the minsk ii peace agreement. it is now up to the european heads of government to take a proactive stance and to continue to refer to the agreements. this also means that there can be no talk of lifting sanctions against russia as long as it does not comply with the minsk ii agreement. the heavy weapons and troops must be withdrawn from the front line and humanitarian aid must no longer be impeded.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european community and the kingdom of morocco on trade in textile products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). the eu itself should be aware of this, because for years the eu has been financing construction and infrastructure projects in parts of the west bank under israeli administration without coordinating this approach with jerusalem. in doing so, brussels is not only breaking the law, but is also putting the security of the jewish state in danger once again. i would also like to point out a fundamental flaw in the eu's middle east policy. the border between israel and a future palestinian state is a necessary part of the negotiation process between the two parties. the border cannot therefore be the subject of an eu declaration which magically transforms a temporary armistice line of 1948-49 into a binding political border. in short, instead of promoting a political rapprochement between israelis and palestinians, the eu is partly responsible for the lingering impasse of what is cynically still called a peace process.
on behalf of the group of the european right when i was studying history in the early 1960's, a neighbor cheered me up by predicting that i was studying for the unemployed, not a job in the future. fortunately for me, this bleak scenario didn't work out. on the contrary. before i graduated, i was in a cheerful high school class. how different, however, how discouraging are the prospects for young people in bosnia-herzegovina? commissioner hahn was right to point this out. the hard numbers speak volumes: 67 percent of young adults are unemployed and as many as 77 percent of them would like to leave the country if possible. the data available show that almost 150 000 young people have already left. paragraph 40 of mr preda's excellent report, for which i congratulate him, is therefore quite rightly devoted to the serious problem of the high level of youth unemployment in bosnia-herzegovina and its consequence, namely, a similarly high level of brain drain. in those days we read the poignant essay by sarajevo student adna subašić a life dilemma of young people in bosnia and herzegovina: leave or stay? her self-critical situation sketch, which is also critical of the apathy among young people, calls for a truly engaged response from the responsible politicians in bosnia-herzegovina and in the eu.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. we need jobs and growth and ceta provides opportunities for european companies through market access. we wanted guarantees that high standards would protect the environment, people and consumers, and we got them. we pushed for a radical reform of investment protections, and we see that a new model works much better, and canada has embraced this wholeheartedly. we realized an end to bureaucratic red tape for small businesses, but also for large companies. we have focused on every detail to meet the many questions, requests, concerns and wishes of civil society organisations, businesses, experts and citizens. but let's also zoom out and keep the context in which we vote today in mind. with president trump in the white house, a clear change in american course is being initiated, and leadership for open economies, open societies and a strong multilateral system must now come from us in europe. too many great powers would prefer to see globalization and trade without fair standards or fair competition or respect for people and the environment. but right now we must seize this moment to work towards an ambitious trade agenda, rooted in the values we all hold dear. we cannot imagine a better partner than the canadians, the most european country outside the union, especially under prime minister trudeau. while we were visiting canada with the international trade commission, brussels was hit by the disgusting terrorist attacks and i will never forget the massive support of canadians. hockey stadiums full of them. this only confirms that our alliance is not only deeply rooted in history, but is still very much experienced personally today and is certainly future-proof. finally, i would like to emphasize how liberal ceta is, but i would like to thank everyone who has put their neck out and worked on this treaty, often against the tide: i would like to thank commissioner malmström for the commission's work, but also all canadians for the patience they have had to show in these seven years of hard work. but the result is there.
these are some of the signatures of the 3.5 million people who oppose ceta and that is just a fraction of the millions of people who have demonstrated against ceta. and that is not to mention the 150 000 people who have objected to any form of arbitration and the more than 2000 municipalities and regions that have declared themselves free of ceta and ttip. no one has said a single unkind word against canada. but you don't make such a bad deal with friends based on mistrust and at the expense of a lot of people. i am genuinely very concerned about this treaty. it is a convention which assumes that any rule which restricts trade is a wrong rule which must be abolished and therefore puts pressure on food safety rules. our public health is under threat, environmental protection is on the line and our regulatory autonomy is under pressure. we're selling out to multinationals. we are not only weakening the rule of law, we are also putting our democracy at risk. that's not just my opinion. it's also what we've heard from judges, lawyers and advocates, from trade unions, consumer organizations and small and medium-sized business lobbying, from farmers, conservationists and environmental organizations, from ngos, who have done research on cash flows, on transparency and development cooperation. ceta is a threat to us all and i cannot understand the liberals allowing it to undermine democracy and the rule of law. i do not understand the epp for allowing the farmers and the small and mediumsized enterprises to be sold off. and i do not understand the social democrats at all, who do not oppose this type of agreement, which offers no guarantee of success, which involves many risks and which, moreover, raises dozens of open questions. ceta is a bad agreement. it's only good for multinationals, and that's not why we were elected. we are elected by the millions of people who ask us to defend their interests. people before profit. stop the ceta.
i would like to express my condolences to the people of canada and the eu member states on this agreement. ceta is the next step towards dictatorship and poverty. dictatorship, because the multinational corporations are in charge. every eu directive and national law affecting the economy can henceforth be seen as creating a barrier to trade. and poverty, because multinational companies make their products in the cheapest countries, cheap in terms of wages and cheap in terms of environmental and working conditions. the benefits of low prices for the citizen are being eroded by the disappearance of jobs and lower wages. but there is hope. more and more eu citizens are seeing through the lies of the establishment and joining the patriots. we represent the people. we fight for their freedom. the end of the eu is approaching and ceta will not reverse its demise.
in fact, it is still too early to make a final judgment on ceta. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. there are many open ends to the negotiations. under pressure from our group and society, isds is out of business. the dispute settlement system is now ics. we do not think this is a perfect solution, but at the same time the commission has committed itself to negotiating the transformation of the ics into an international public court, and with that the more than 1300 european isds clauses will also be abolished. so we look forward to seeing what developments there are. the pvda also wants environmental and trade union organisations to have the right to take legal action to protect labour and environmental standards. here too the commission has promised to work with canada to establish before this summer a system of sanctions which can be implemented in the event of violations of these rights. the european parliament's opinion is not the final opinion on ceta. the national parliaments will also be discussed. and then we'll know enough to make a final judgment.
in recent months and years the world has witnessed the barbarity of terrorism and the heinous acts of terrorists. it is therefore right that security and the fight against terrorism should be the european union's first priority. a lot has happened already. we have adopted the pnr directive. we have a new mandate from europol with more room to counter online radicalization. we shall also be voting tomorrow on better control of the external borders. we have committed ourselves to better protection of the external borders. this report is another important step and i congratulate mr hohlmeier and the shadow rapporteurs on the good result, because it is important. the people who have been malicious have recently been able to find the weak spots in europe all too well. 28 different countries with 28 different approaches, that was too fragmented to be effective. this directive is a very good step in the right direction by drawing a line in the criminal law for travelling for the purpose of terrorism, for joining a terrorist organisation, for recruiting terrorists, for financing terrorists and also for glorifying terrorists - because much has already been said about this today. and yes, we cherish freedom of speech. we cherish that as one of the most important foundations of our society. but there is also a collective responsibility, a level of minimal civilization that we can expect from everyone in the european union. and the glorification of terror is not one of them and must be dealt with very hard.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, alde will support this report but not with great enthusiasm. first of all, as so often, there was no impact assessment. it seems the commission does not consider that necessary when it is about security and fundamental rights. i also think that the justification used, namely the paris attacks, is a very strange one, because what turned out to be the case was that member states were not sharing information and terrorists were able to cross internal borders without problems; so this does not seem to me to be a coherent vision on security and external border control but the usual pavlov reflexes and salami tactics. we are, however, pleased that we got at least one thing, namely that compulsory checks will be limited to well-defined databases, rather than the rather general reference that was included initially, namely checks against ‘all relevant databases’, which might be anything. because what has also become clear is that the member states actually fail to make full use of the schengen information system (sis). we have a system in place and member states are not using it, they are not feeding information into it, and they are not checking it. so again we are finding solutions to the wrong problem. i wish that the member states would finally do their duty and accept that there is an obligation to use the existing systems rather than, every time it turns out they failed to share information, coming up with something new. we also wanted a risk-based system, proportional and necessary, rather than the default setting of systematic checks. we wanted risk assessment at the european level, based on common european criteria, but that was impossible. finally, and this was also one of the priorities of parliament, we wanted equal treatment of land, air and sea borders, and we did not get it. i think this is crazy, because if everybody is submitted to systematic checks at airports, but there can be exceptions for land and sea borders, then you do not need to be a rocket scientist to figure out that, next time, you take the car. i am not really sure what this is going to add, but because we made some minimal progress here, alde will nevertheless support it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, the whole idea in a democracy is that the powers of public authorities are limited to what is necessary and proportionate, and that also applies to things like privacy, for example, or other fundamental rights. so why would you allow authorities to do more than is necessary if you know that it is excessive? besides, this is not only about fundamental rights. this is also about effectiveness. if we are all talking about the need for more security, then why don’t we tackle the real problem, namely the insufficient sharing of information between member states – in some cases, the actual refusal of member states to share information – rather than creating new it systems the whole time (paid for by public money, incidentally), if we know that it is not going to solve the problem?
after every terrorist attack in europe, we hear afterwards that the cooperation and information sharing between member states, between member states' security services, was not optimal. we have therefore repeatedly called on the member states to take action in this area. and rightly so. the lack of cooperation between member states is undermining the sense of security of our citizens and a lot has already happened. the commissioner rightly points to the prüm system, and our colleague claude moraes also mentioned it as a cornerstone of this exchange. at the same time, i hear from many people in practice that the prüm system is outdated and slow, and i would like to ask the commissioner if he can comment on that. but more happened. we have the articles on data sharing in the terrorism directive that we're voting on tomorrow. we have the same articles in the pnr directive. we are seeing - as the commissioner rightly pointed out - an increase in the sharing of data through europol. we're working on interoperability. that is all very well, but it is not enough and the fact that we are still working with council decisions from 2005, 11-12 years ago, says it all. we cannot fight tomorrow's terror with yesterday's tools. we must take action and in so doing we must learn from our mistakes. and to learn from our mistakes, we're going to have to examine those mistakes. given the transnational nature of many of the attacks committed in recent years, such an investigation should take place at european level. i therefore strongly support manfred weber's proposal to set up such a committee of inquiry within the european parliament and i ask all my colleagues to support it wholeheartedly.
it is also clear again tonight that toll is a sensitive subject. the citizens of europe want what they pay for and do not want any border restrictions. it has been said, the user pays and the polluter pays. those are good principles. in this respect, the german customs dispute is not a good start. we in the epp do not oppose the imposition of tolls, just as we in the netherlands do not want tolls, that must be clear. but compensation for german citizens only, that is discriminatory and contrary to european law. green cars are compensating, that is fine, but green cars from the whole eu and not in the way that is now indicated in the german proposals. i do not understand why the commissioner has stopped the infringement procedure. she will not say anything about that as the negotiations are still ongoing, but the sensitivity does bring me to ask this question. finally, the absence of a single european toll system will lead to more national systems, and that is disastrous. so please hurry up with the establishment of that system.
i am in favour of a mileage charge for motorists. it is logical that users should pay for the infrastructure they use, but this should be done fairly. germans and non-germans must be treated equally. for example, when germans are compensated through the motor vehicle tax, that is pure discrimination. that is a capital sin in the european union and that is the core task of this commission. that's for commissioner glashard to find out. it is also essential that the german toll is charged in a smart, customer-friendly way. a vignette is an outdated system. i thought the germans were always so modern and for digitization and that kind of thing more. and then they come with a vignette from the last century! then use a gps tracking system, and you can differentiate based on mileage and vehicle type. a simple, green and above all fair mileage tax, i have no problem with that, neither in germany nor in the netherlands. but the commission has to check that ball.
commissioner, as mr ertug has already said, you are the guardian of the european treaties, but it seems that a deal has been struck here, not on legal grounds, but on political grounds. you are convinced that the new german toll plan is in accordance with european law. why do you not then send a thorough legal analysis to the european parliament? a second point - and i quote from your own low-emission strategy - is that the road tax should be based on actual kilometres travelled throughout the european union. i agree with that, but the german toll plan is against it. there's no connection whatsoever to actual mileage. this german toll plan is discriminatory, it is bad for the environment, it is bad for europe. it is not the infringement procedure that should be put in the freezer, but this german toll plan.
european leaders in european capitals are talking about european cooperation and the removal of barriers. however, we see in practice every day that new obstacles are being added to the borders and it is mainly the inhabitants of border regions, such as my own beautiful limburg, who suffer the most. people in border regions who in their daily lives constantly cross borders to work, to live, to shop, to go to the doctor. these people now face discrimination and are further discouraged from crossing those borders. we must ensure that we break down frontiers and do not create new ones. border regions are the test beds of european cooperation. if we deal with it in this way, i see the future of the eu as bleak. that's why i'm telling you, commissioner: i would like to ask you to continue to oppose this german toll as long as it is discriminatory, even if only in a very small way. we shall at any rate continue to do so here in the european parliament.
i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and in particular mr boni for the good cooperation he has shown in this report. i call for a strong signal from the european parliament on this european cloud initiative. i wish we could say, we are proud of the cloud. because it is crucial for our international competitiveness that europe has a state-of-the-art digital infrastructure as soon as possible. actually, that's a no-brainer when you consider that all sectors of the economy are digitizing. the internet of things is making data flows explode. and if we consider that 80 percent of the data that's stored now was collected in the last two years, you can see how fast that's going to go. this initiative bridges the gap between data and digitisation, notably through the open science cloud. by seizing this opportunity, we can create additional growth and jobs. the open science cloud will give millions of scientists in europe, regardless of national borders or specific research areas, access to a huge amount of new data that is currently out of their reach. but of course, other users should also be able to benefit from the open science cloud. companies need to have cheap and easy access to big data, which will enable them to develop new innovative products. using the cloud, they can reduce their it costs by an average of 20 to 50 percent. so, our digital infrastructure needs to be of the highest quality and i am pleased that the commission is working in three crucial areas: the european union is also committed to the development of the information society. i am particularly pleased with the billion euro the commission is setting aside for quantum research, because this new generation of supercomputers will be able to outdo all the computers that exist today. we must ensure that europe remains at the forefront and i am glad that the council is taking this seriously. for example, tomorrow i will also be attending a conference in malta on quantum computing.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption. now it's actually the most common thing in the world to store your data outside of your own hard drive. but we do store that very, very often outside the european union, and that's not good, because outside our jurisdiction, we can't protect governments, businesses, scientists and citizens. american companies should let the nsa watch, and let's not even talk about russian companies. and that's not good either, because protecting personal data is hugely important, especially in times of trump and putin. so this cloud initiative -- and i don't say it often -- is a real win-win. we can turn our backwardness in cloud computing into an advantage. it's good for our wallets and it's good for our privacy. but then i would ask you, commissioner, to stop listening to companies like hewlett-packard and amazon, american companies that are eager to have a monopoly on the cloud. by enforcing open standards, we reduce that risk. by enforcing our data protection laws, including in the cloud, very strictly, we have an offer for companies from outside the european union. i see a lot of opportunities.
mr president, i wanted to say to the commissioner that this is a really timely proposal. in the past, when we talked about the cloud development, we missed the bus and came too late. here we have an excellent horizon 2020 programme, we have excellent universities and we have all those campuses all over europe specialised to combine them and to enable them. so i would like to congratulate you. the second thing concerns the human resources that we need to make this happen, to make this fly. in my region, in relation to the big data initiative you have just mentioned, there is now a new academy, which started last year in combination with big data, science, ethics and entrepreneurship. so you can see that, from different angles, this might be a very powerful and timely initiative, not repeating the last years where we lost out to the united states, as i heard a minute ago.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you for having us here at this timely moment: i see that the commissioner has just arrived and i especially want to address her. mr president, commissioner crețu, let us carry out a sort of mid-term balance on how we are performing. how are we performing in this cohesion policy, in the regional policy? i thank the commission and all the colleagues for all the facts and figures and materials that we got on this article 16(3) report. there are a lot of positive numbers in terms of growth and jobs. we support 150 000 startups. we have the creation of more than 500 000 jobs. this is substantial, and we also see a real shift from the infrastructure – roads and roads, bridges and bridges – of the last period to a knowledge-driven economy, to applied science, ict, the green economy and social cohesion. this renewed policy definitively leads to more local and european added value. we see commitments in the social field, especially for younger people to bring them to a job. the ex-ante conditionalities we have formulated lead to a more integrated policy and a better structured and targeted result. we initiated a package of simplification synergies with other funds and performance-based budgeting. it was something new in this house. the practical reflection and the relation with the european semester is established. cohesion concerns three-fourths of the country-specific recommendations, and we made a performance framework as an example, as i said, of this performance-based budgeting. and on this basis we had studied and debated, i asked the commission to come with three points of action. first, a cohesion master plan rescheduling the 2014-2020 period on the basis of the approvals of the operational programmes and the consequences for payments in the next years. n+3 has not helped to speed things up, and the austerity on the national level brought serious constraints in the co-financing. we need a new payment plan until 2023. i ask you to include three aspects in this cohesion master plan: taking away the hindrances to the expenditure in the member states; clarifying the effects of the late start-up in the 2017-2023 period, not having this great backlog of bills in the next years to come; and clarifying the effects of the late start for the next years: n+3 will lead to performance payments in the years until 2023. does this materially extend the period 2014-2020? will the experience of 2014-2016 be repeated? member states were still working to finalise the programmes and came with very late agreed programmes for the new period. let us learn from these consequences. i can just mention two other points. in bratislava, the informal meeting on cohesion had a very positive assessment on how we have changed our methods, but there was also a proposal, an initiative from you, commissioner, to present another way of communication, to come forward with a new communication plan. on the communication plan, let the european star shine, i mean the projects and those people in it. my last point is territorial cohesion. i want to underline this smart specialisation approach and the wish of parliament in my report to come forward with a bigger envelope in the total cohesion amount for this cross-regional and cross-country cooperation.
i would like to make a comment on the excellent report by mr van nistelrooij on investing in jobs and growth. i am very pleased that this report makes a very strong link between cohesion policy and the european semester. country-specific recommendations, structural reforms and investment must go hand in hand. in some european countries, unfortunately, the years of european funding have not led to the desired success, and this is often because there has been too little reform. investing in european jobs and growth will only pay off if the foundations are in place, if member states take responsibility for reforming their economies and labour markets. if necessary, operational programmes should be adapted in the future precisely to bring them into line with the country-specific recommendations. i would like to hear the commissioner's opinion on this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the problem is the problem of payments, which is now emerging again, and the prevention of problems after 2020 with the new cohesion policy. the european commission must come forward very quickly with an action plan for dealing with the payment ceiling, in order to avoid a build-up of payment arrears at the end of the current programming period. but above all, we must also learn from the past in order to look to the future. let us therefore, commission, parliament and council, work together to ensure that the legislative process for adopting the next multiannual financial framework is completed in time. the regulatory framework for future cohesion policy can then be set up shortly afterwards and we can finally start without delay, this time on 1 january 2021.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is an honour to hear this broad debate today, with all the contributions. let me highlight three points. the first point is about the effect of this kind of debate. as ms maletić said, we had already had a resolution before, and there was not really a follow-up. tomorrow this house will agree on a resolution. in the resolution is a clear request, without any doubt, and you could also hear it today, that you want to have a master plan on acceleration. and this is not a theoretical thing. the last subject we debated was about the cloud, wasn’t it, the science cloud? but this is not a cloud, this is an agreement between the commissioner and parliament to come with an acceleration plan. and this means that you look and tell us honestly: what does it mean if you start three years later? what is the effect on bills? because we don’t want to have again the backlog of bills that we had last time. it was a shame for parliament and the other european institutions. my second point: you heard several contributions about, as they say in germany, bürgernähe, it means closeness to the citizens. if the member states don’t like to show that they could perform better with european money, go directly to those who act in the programmes, the youngsters who get these qualifications, etc. it was juncker, exactly in the place where you sit now, who said we need the story of normal people, the volunteers, but also those in real programmes. so let the star shine, i mean with those who really feel that europe is important for them, and bypass the member states. so do not just say it but modernise and change your communication policy. my third point – it’s late but not too late – i don’t want to have these type of debates repeated and repeated. maybe in the omnibus we can find a little loophole to get some legal restrictions so that we can throw them out, for instance, in the interest of this better communication. thank you very much for being here so late, all of you.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report. i think it gives a very good picture of what we want in europe at the moment with the aviation sector. the aviation sector is a very challenging sector, but it is also an emancipatory sector. there are many european citizens who can now fly to holiday destinations and you can say a lot about that but it is emancipation. i would like to draw attention to four issues this morning, firstly the innovative power of the sector. the transport committee will be visiting toulouse and the airbus factories next week to see the state of innovation in europe. the second point is competition. we do have some tough competition in the sector, not always fair and certainly from outside the eu. then there is the social aspect. i have been rather disturbed by the behaviour of the employment committee. if you have a say in a tran ini report, you're not going to write a message that's twice as long as the main one. we must not freeze everything in this sector either, and young pilots in particular deserve more attention.
initially, mr telička paid a great deal of attention in his report to innovation, competitiveness and collectivity. these are all very important issues in themselves, but aviation is facing bigger problems. in a fierce battle for the lowest price, several prize fighters pinch their pilots. in fact, it goes so far as to require pilots to pay to keep flying. that's a construction known as pay to fly. that this is a major problem for both pilots and consumers was revealed last year in a study by the london school of economics. in this report many pilots stated that they were suffering from fatigue complaints, and these complaints are not taken seriously by airlines of this type. i'm very concerned about the situation. pay to fly is an absurd construct and actually represents an organizational culture of high risk. i therefore fully understand that various pilot organisations are beginning, or have already begun, to take legal action to dismantle these structures. and they're right to be. fortunately, the rapporteur has finally incorporated these points in his report, and i am pleased about that. that change, that adjustment, has enabled me to support the report.
mr president, first of all, i would like to say to the commission that they always claim to take an integral approach to all kinds of challenge and, indeed, we have had a couple of nice strategic reports from dg move on the future of transport. but when we go into very sectoral approaches suddenly this integral approach is lost. the strategy on aviation is really a very one-sided approach, looking only at the problems of unfair competition internationally and, of course, some issues we have in the european airspace. the rapporteur, unfortunately, did not take the integral approach that is needed for the aviation sector. i am happy that, in relation to the social pillar, the report has been corrected and improved. however, on the environmental side it hardly does anything: it does not even mention the paris agreement. when everyone is shouting about how important that is and yet it is not even mentioned in discussion of this sector it shows that the integral approach is still lacking. when we take sectoral approaches, let us ensure that we know it is about economic, social and environmental policies. this report does not do enough in that regard, so i will vote against it.
author. – mr president, we are deeply disturbed by the executions in bahrain and kuwait in january. the eu is against the death penalty, no matter in which country it is performed, no matter for what crime; 160 un member states have abolished the death penalty or do not practise it, and that list should grow. in kuwait on 25 january 25 people were executed, 5 of them were actually foreign citizens and there are serious concerns about whether they had a fair trial under the current system in kuwait. but in bahrain on 15 january three people were executed by a firing squad, and we are well aware of the lack of fair trial standards as well as allegations of forced confessions under torture, which adds to the concern that we already have about the death penalty, also regarding the circumstances in these cases. the office of the high commissioner for human rights of the un said it was appalled, and shares our concern about the lack of a fair trial. we ask the kuwaiti and bahraini authorities to become the leaders that they can be in the middle east and adopt a moratorium on the death penalty. we particularly call on his majesty sheikh hamad bin isa al khalifa of bahrain to halt the executions of two prisoners on death row, mohammed ramadan and hussein moussa. we call on both the kuwaiti and bahraini authorities to invite the un special rapporteur on torture and inhumane treatment, and to grant him full access to detention facilities to investigate the circumstances. there is an urgent need in both these countries for upholding human rights and respecting them, including fair trial standards, and in bahrain we see specifically that revoking citizenship puts people in a terrible situation; this is illegal and it must stop. we have also called urgently and repeatedly for the recommendations of the bici report to be implemented, and we repeat this call again today.
the european union is in decline and support for your european project is dwindling. the dutch, among others, have already said no to the european constitution and to the association agreement with ukraine. and now the first member state is leaving because the british said no to the eu. i'm happy for them. but at a time when the people are yearning for freedom, the only thing you are doing here is preserving the brussels dream. the commission's future plans for the european union are more of the same: more, more, more european union. the president of the european council, donald tusk, is even calling on the member states to pledge their loyalty to the european project once again. who would make up something like that? how out of touch are you? you are playing with the future of millions of citizens whom you do not represent and who have asked you for nothing. mr juncker now says that he wants to hear every citizen, every voice. but may i remind you of a few quotes from the same man? on the french referendum on the european constitution, he said: if it is a yes, we will say: let's move. if it is a no, we will say: we continue. and about greece: when it becomes serious, you have to lie. president, that is democracy in the european union, that is what brussels stands for here. this kind of proposal from unelected eu bosses will only confirm the feeling among the dutch that we must get rid of the suffocating eu, move towards sovereignty, move towards freedom.
thousands of unaccompanied children have disappeared in europe in recent years. they are at risk of exploitation, forced prostitution, and even illegal organ trafficking. the eu and national governments would do well to put this issue high on the agenda, both for the safety of these children and for our own safety. they are easy prey for organised crime and extremist recruiters. it is bizarre that europe cannot even take care of these most vulnerable migrants. our governments simply have to ensure decent reception, better monitoring and compliance with previous agreements on the relocation of refugees from greece and italy. for example, in greece there are 500 unaccompanied children who have been eligible for relocation for months, but who have not yet been taken over by other european countries. it's a disgrace!
madam president, over eight months have passed since 52% of british voters decided that the uk should leave the european union. in those eight months the british government has not triggered article 50 and they have not opened up the opportunity to actually negotiate how best to arrange our divorce. so what have they done? they have confronted those europeans who have applied for residence permits with a level of bureaucracy that i can only describe as ironic for a government that has spent so much time complaining about bureaucracy in the european union. they have published new regulations on immigration and updated policy on the removal and revocation of european citizens, which has only created more fear, more chaos and more uncertainty for those europeans living in the uk. they have sent letters to european citizens living in the uk for decades, often married to uk husbands or wives, to make sure they prepare for their departure. if this is prime minister may’s idea of creating the grounds for a friendly negotiation, if this is the idea of a global britain, then i would ask her to think again because this is not global britain; it is certainly not noble britain: it is little britain at its very smallest.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for good negotiations – tough negotiations – on this file. indeed, if you can look on where we come from, the commission’s proposal was modest – it was a bit of an implementation of the minamata convention – and i think the parliament really strengthened this proposal. most important is, of course, if you look at how we treat dental amalgam – it has been stated before – we want a direct phase-out for vulnerable groups. it is a national action plan to be drafted by the member states, and the commission will come up by 2020 with a proposal for phase-out by 2030. these are good results. yes, the parliament would have preferred to go further, absolutely. but we know that in the council, only one member state supported that, and that was sweden; we had 27 member states not on that position. if you then look – it is europe – how we got to the compromise, this is a compromise we can support, and we will therefore vote in favour of this deal.
first of all, i would like to thank sergio cofferati and the other colleagues for this result. the question now is whether there are good shareholders, because this directive gives shareholders more power to determine the remuneration of top managers. i distrust the system of bonuses, but at least let the reward be rewarding in the long run. that takes good shareholders. yeah, there might be. we have a lot of investors investing in us, like insurance companies and pension funds. it is up to these investors to break with the quarterly culture in companies and to opt for a long-term perspective. countries can and should support them by strengthening the bond between shareholders and companies, for example through loyalty dividends or other means. europe deserves companies that care about the long term, where the remuneration of directors and employees are in sync and who dare to choose people planet profit, because value is more than just profit.
in writing. women are less intelligent and weaker, says mep korwin-mikke. i assume mr mikke feels threatened, and that's why he's been hitting around like this. but here's the shocking thing: even if we disregard his comments, the eu gets an eige reporting figure of 5.3 for the year 2015, and in terms of time only a 3.8. on average, 77% of women in the eu spend at least one hour a day on cooking and housekeeping, compared with only 24% of men. so women often work extra hours at home in addition to their paid work to care for others. they are thus self-deprecating and thereby reduce their chances of gaining employment and economic independence. weaker and smaller? he will mean a greater sense of duty, greater social pressure and much less help. these findings confirm the importance of measures to improve work-life balance for women and men. with proper care and accommodation for children and other dependants, and flexible working arrangements. i would therefore ask the commission to come forward as soon as possible with an ambitious work-life balance package, including proposals for improved paternity, maternity and parental leave.
i also thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. i heard this morning that many, including the european commission, have stressed the importance of the economic benefits of this circular economy. and rightly so: it was mckinsey who declared a year and a half ago that the circular economy should be the political, economic project of the future, the project we have been looking for for so long. but if we are so convinced of the economic benefits, we should not do half the work. then we must also be convinced of this circular economy. the fantastic properties of a circle apply only to a complete circle, not to a semicircle. that is why we have rightly increased the recycling targets. i also expect the european commission to give its full support here, because parliament's objectives are the preferred option in the impact assessment. i therefore sincerely hope that the commission will also give us its full support in the negotiations with the council.
today we're talking about the circular economy and how we can reuse products and materials. i'm fine with all that, but you can go about your hobbies. the delicate thing is that the eu itself has been at the end of its life for years, but it is not eligible for recycling, simply because the parts are no longer useful. the billions of dollars in the turkey deal are never going to be put to use, and draghi's money press is running so fast that mugabe doesn't want to take over. no, mr president, the only circular eu element that works is the job machine. and that is your good fortune, because after the elections this year in the netherlands, in germany, you name it, you will need that job machine badly. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" question. what is it? i am a little annoyed by my dutch colleague who is speaking and shouting but does not participate in all these debates. if you say something here, you must do something there, but i just never see you there. i take that very seriously.
"blue card" is the answer. mrs. schreijer-pierik, it's good to hear that you miss me. i miss you too, but then i miss you in holland. the real issue is that we need to talk to the taxpayer in the netherlands who has to finance all this.
mr president, firstly, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her great work in getting to this deal and, indeed, i would also like to thank the commission. we have come a long way in the discussions and i think we are now on the same page concerning the importance of the circular economy. what we are doing here is making sure that waste can be used in the circular economy, but we know that we also need to look at how to create a demand for reused and recycled material and at making sure that the design is ready so that we can create a circular economy. this is a very good, and very important, step, but we are not there yet. we are asking for, and expecting, additional steps from the commission, as also announced in the action plan. for those who are always referring to impact assessments and saying that it is important, the higher targets will deliver eur 6 billion in benefits to society: 34 000 more jobs and 99 million tonnes of co2 reduction. people, planet, profits, thanks to the higher targets. read the impact assessment.
we are about to vote on the revision of the european waste legislation, a historic moment. we should not be talking about waste legislation, but about recycling legislation. it is not a question of waste that we must get rid of, but of valuable resources that we must protect. unfortunately, not all countries are moving as quickly towards this circular economy. the netherlands is leading the way. and that's too bad. it is vital for the continent's economy that we move quickly and show sufficient ambition. we need to phase out the landfill of reusable and recyclable waste. this is the fundamental condition for the real transition to make europe a circular economy. we must also strengthen cooperation with producers and waste processors. together we can close the loop to a true circular economy. and finally , let's get rid of the bureaucratic barriers to reuse, let's get rid of the lack of ambition and let's get rid of the concept of waste and talk about the use of valuable resources. we cannot leave the netherlands in the cold and go on to develop [...]
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am not sure what to say to mr škripek, because i do not have the illusion that we are going to change his mind. but maybe i would rather address the citizens of the european union, who should understand that the agenda of the so-called populist parties is not just about nationalism, anti-eu or national sovereignty; it is also very much about sexism and misogyny. it is against women’s rights. so keep that in mind when you go to the ballot box, and know what you vote for – like the trump administration, who reinstated and expanded the gag rule, and the helms amendment, which was still in the background. it is very necessary that the european union gives a strong response, and i very much welcome the very positive attitude of the european commission. you have our support, because the european union must not only accept standards imposed by third countries; we must lead in the world, we must set the standards. we are the strongest actor in the world, and we have to make sure that we impose the standards and do not accept. that is why i very much welcome the ‘she decides’ initiative. it sends a very strong signal to the trump administration and women around the world. we need to go further. first of all, i would like to ask the european commission about the 2015 letter about women who are pregnant as a result of rape in conflict, and you consider that that is covered by international humanitarian law. but now we need to make sure that these guidelines are actually transmitted through the practitioners in the field so that people know that they have the backing. women should know what their rights and their options are, so i would call on the commission to do this proactively. secondly, we need to fill the funding gap that was left by president trump, but not only in response to him reinstating the gag rule. but it has to be structural. if we want to lead, it has to be structural. finally, we are going to table amendments to the budget this year in order to strengthen the funding. i also expect those eu member states who have pledged funds to the ‘she decides’ initiative in the budget procedure to give support to amendments, increasing the budget for sexual and reproductive health and rights – and not only in situations of conflict. because, dear colleague škripek, i firmly believe that women should decide on their own bodies. always.
blue-card question. – just to clarify one misunderstanding, we are not actually debating the us budget here. we are debating the eu budget. we may deplore what the united states has decided, but we cannot change it. but if you say that every state – or entity in this case, when we are talking about the eu budget – has the right to set its own priorities and decide on its own budget, i count on you being on my side when we table amendments to raise the budget for the issues we are discussing today.
donald trump is screaming at everything in and against the media. but the details of his global gag rule are quietly coming out and they're disturbing. hospitals that perform abortions are no longer eligible for funding. in this way, trump wants to cut $600 million in spending, and that directly affects the health and choice of the most vulnerable women in the world. but the rights of these women should not depend on who is in the white house. so i give a big thumbs up to lilianne ploumen, who launched she decides right after trump's announcement, and to all the countries, individuals and organizations that have already pledged over 200 million euros. she decides deserves all the support it can get to reverse trump's executive order and prevent tragedies. i hope that the commission and the member states which are still missing will now also make a direct, substantial contribution.
for the ecr group there 's one question that 's been bothering me for years: is there still a future for christians in the middle east? this is a telling, depressing hot topic in panel discussions today. for example, consider the exchange of views at the munich security conference less than a month ago. when i talk to insiders in the region about the future of christians in syria and iraq, i hear bleak scenarios: barely to no future. at the same time, it is a source of fear for christians in the neighbouring arab countries, who are desperate to find escape routes in case things go wrong in their own countries. i think of jordan, for example. that brings me to the honest, urgent question to the european union: what priority - because today is a question of priorities - should the fundamental rights and human rights of eastern christians be respected in our international context? with the follow-up question: if so, what is the eu's strategy to stop the exodus of christians from the middle east? in parentheses: at the munich conference, a prominent german politician spoke out about "christocide" in the middle east. her and my urgent question to ourselves, to the eu: we are not prepared to accept that. i'm gonna end up with a bright spot. earlier this month, yazidis, turkmen, shabak and christians in iraq joined forces in a new initiative, al-rafidein: the land of two rivers, the euphrates and the tigris. it is a plea for an autonomous peaceful region for these minorities in iraq. a combination of european soft power and american hard power in support of this initiative towards baghdad could mean the protection of basic human rights. and also, for these minorities, a future in their own homeland.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs kadenbach very much for her good work on this dossier. in the case of trade in plant, food and animal by-products, the logistical process of import and transit into the eu is of great importance in relation to the required freshness and quality of these products. in order to provide operators and authorities such as customs with the means to do this and not to impose restrictions on the free movement of goods, it is important to simplify and reduce the regulatory burden on controls. i therefore support the text as it stands, which is committed to a risk-based approach to the controls to be carried out, while at the same time ensuring the safety of products. this is relevant for the large numbers of trade flows handled through ports such as rotterdam and schiphol. unnecessary administrative procedures, however small, can, due to the large volume of trade flows, cumulatively significantly delay the import and transit of products. i will therefore continue to monitor the implementation of this legislation closely to see whether the objectives of this legislation are also being achieved, so that in the future we are not burdened with unnecessary rules that go beyond the purpose of this legislation.
animal welfare is given a lot of attention in this report, but unfortunately some abuses are not addressed. i'll give you one example. the presence of a veterinarian is not required for the slaughter of rabbits and poultry. and that's when, in these animals, a lot goes wrong during stunning and slaughter. i don't understand why you're doing this. the food industry is sliding from scandal to scandal and this report should restore consumer confidence. but if countries can decide for themselves what they will and will not control, that will not happen. do you really think that consumers will be reassured when they hear that in some countries there is not enough money to train inspectors? do you really think that consumers will be reassured when they hear that products which are banned here in europe are still coming onto our market, such as live battery eggs or hormone meat? i don't think he did. we must close the gap between the good intentions of this parliament and the reluctance of the commission and the council to come up with regulations. otherwise we cannot prevent food scandals and animals will be exploited for a long time. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, the code of conduct group is probably europe at its worst. it operates in near-complete secrecy and has a dismal performance. indeed, input and output legitimacy are minimal. in fact, work by the european institutions is essential to arrive at a fair corporate tax system. progress has been made for the first time in history but much more progress is needed. a major step would be the actual introduction of the consolidated common corporate tax base. it would provide, among other things, a level playing field in the internal market for large companies and not-so-large companies: and people are right to expect that amazon pays as much in taxes as a small book store. as rapporteur, i will do my utmost, together with alain lamassoure, to find support inside and outside this parliament. we need political and public pressure on the member states. but let me also point to one omission in the approach by the commission. the tax avoidance industry is a rather exceptional instance of jean-baptise say’s law: yes, in this case, supply creates its own demand. tax advisers will always find ways, new ways, to work around the corporate tax system. so regulating the industry of tax advice is a further crucial step in tackling tax avoidance.
mr tusk, thank you very much for the support you have just expressed to the netherlands in this house. erdogan has had a number of ministers campaign abroad for his referendum, despite article 94 of the turkish electoral law forbidding it. when my government banned two turkish ministers from holding a public campaign in rotterdam, erdogan denounced the netherlands as fascists and nazis, not least in rotterdam, a city that was bombed by the nazis in may 1940. i call on mr tusk and the council to formally suspend the accession negotiations with turkey. dictators have no place in the european union. and above all, stop the pre-accession aid. they've already received over 4 billion from the european union. this is crazy! stop the negotiations.
the 60th anniversary of rome is marked by renewal. what kind of europe do we want? we must ask this question because the divisions between us are paralysing europe. i can't do this anymore. europe is more than a market and a currency. it stands for freedom of democracy, equality under the rule of law and the brotherhood of the welfare state. it is unique in the world and we can be proud of it. the eu, on the other hand, is not a country. it offers unprecedented opportunities, precisely to make countries and citizens stronger, for example by tackling tax evasion and combating climate change. but the eu is not a country and it must also state and know its limitations. there are many roads to rome, and the combination of more and less is interesting. with the current divisions, further cooperation between some countries is also interesting, just as they point the way to a new europe. it is good to discuss the kind of europe we want.
this was the chair held until his death by professor hans jansen, who became world famous for his book the neglected duty, a scholarly study of the influence of the muslim brotherhood on modern muslim fundamentalism. the muslim brotherhood proclaims that the great jihad - which is the killing of the infidels and the conquest of the world - is no longer the task of islamic states as it used to be, but of every individual muslim, because the islamic states have abandoned their sacred duty of conquest. this doctrine is now widely accepted and is the cause of many of the attacks and murders in our society. as long as muslims see jihad as correct, accept it, support it, even carry it out, there will be no peace and security in our countries. and no eu security agenda is going to help.
it is almost a year since we were shocked by the horror of the attacks in brussels and those images will never leave our eyes. our thoughts today are therefore first and foremost with the victims and their families, friends and loved ones. a lot has happened in the past year, as commissioner avramopoulos rightly pointed out. we have the pnr directive, the anti-terrorism directive, we have reinforced checks at the external borders and so on. but it is not just a matter of adopting guidelines. the main point is that these directives add value in practice. i am concerned about the speed with which these directives are being implemented. i am concerned to see that only six member states have implemented the pnr directive. we can't just sign a bill and sit back. we will have to take active action, including in the member states, to put this into practice. finally, we have spoken about the external borders, but i would also like to draw attention to the internal borders. i come from a beautiful border province. in my province of limburg we have more borders with germany and belgium than with the netherlands and i am the strongest proponent of keeping those borders open, but we must not be naive. we have abolished these internal borders, but criminal organizations, traffickers and even terrorists still know how to find and use them. we will have to find a way to keep those internal borders in europe with technological innovations, with cameras, with scans, to keep watch and to carry out checks. i would like to hear from you, commissioner king, how you feel about actually improving those possibilities of controls, also at internal borders, by digital means.
we need action, action to force norway and russia too to finally respect the 1920 treaty of svalbard. this is necessary for the other objectives we are pursuing in our arctic strategy: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union must take action and respond to the fact that for years norway has denied our herring fishermen access to the waters around spitsbergen and that many ships remain in their ports for fear of being boarded or chained. in 2015, dutch herring fishermen had to flee from the norwegian coast guard for fear of being chained. norway is challenging the european union and in the meantime it is simply allowing the russian fishermen in and leaving them alone. the norwegian courts have rightly condemned the actions of the norwegian navy and coast guard against our snow crab fishermen, and yet norway does not listen. let 's be clear . we respect the 12-mile zone. the waters around spitsbergen outside the zone are open to our fishermen, including the snow crab fishery, and also to other commercial activities and treaty partners, under international law. the norwegian attitude is very worrying and casts a shadow over the future of atlantic fishing and european exploration of the arctic. we must forcefully call norway to order: in the future, stay away from our fishermen from spitsbergen. we must take action for our fishermen, for international law and for other interests.
this morning the turkish foreign minister reacted to the election results in the netherlands. and he made the following appeal, and i quote: 'turkey wants a holy war in europe soon after the election result in the netherlands', i repeat: 'a holy war in europe'. the turkish foreign minister calls for this. i'd like to hear your reaction to this.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on the subject. it is a disgrace and not just disrespectful to all the efforts being made in southern european countries and the misery that people are experiencing there because of all the austerity. it is also, of course, a disgrace - and i agree with mr pittella - that women are spoken of in this way. that is absolutely not possible. i hope you will express this criticism in a letter to mr dijsselbloem.
the european union is a huge buyer and investor in palm oil and thus plays a major role in the destruction of our planet. europe is burning down the forests of indonesia and malaysia at the expense of future generations and of the habitats of man and animals. the certification system for sustainable palm oil has failed. there is no such thing as sustainable palm oil! sustainable palm oil is a myth to appease the conscience of consumers, producers and politicians. let's stop using conflict materials like palm oil. because it's not just coal and copper that are bad for our planet, but palm oil certainly is. let's invest in growing in our own soil. now is the time to invest in organic flax, sunflower and cabbage seeds. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished. (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. of course the netherlands has a pretty decent past in indonesia and that's not a past we need to be proud of. if we look at the role of europe in deforestation in indonesia and malaysia, we must make sure that we do not have to be ashamed of ourselves again in 50 years' time. and we have to stop importing palm oil and stop using it now.
madam president, i would like to thank rapporteur for this report on palm oil. i think at the core what we are seeing here is that we, as the european union, should start using our bargaining power as a big market. we are the second importer of palm oil in the world. twelve percent of the global production is imported into the eu. the standards that we are setting will be a global example. we are doing it, for example, for conflict minerals. now it is time for us to take the next step: looking at palm oil production, knowing that there are cases of human rights violations, that there are cases of environmental destruction. if we set our standards and make sure that according to these sustainability criteria only the good stuff is used for import into the eu, we will set a global standard. and that is exactly what we should be doing, for the environment but certainly also for the people earning their money from these products, and that is what we are doing here and it is time we used that power.
mrs kateřina, thank you for the wonderful report. conserving the rainforest and global biodiversity is vital to the future of humanity, and that's what we're talking about. but palm oil is not the only cause of global deforestation. the growing world food demand, population pressure and illegal logging are also causes. let us therefore support and emulate the sustainability efforts of member states and companies, as in the netherlands. europe, our european commission and all of us: the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam. and by 2020, we'll only be using certified sustainable palm oil. sustainable palm oil is essential to our food sector, which provides jobs and, of course, is also a very good source of a lot of food production. research and support also our european oils and fats, such as coal seeds, butterfat, alternatives, thus achieving synergy with existing european policies. new feed and second and third generation circular biofuels are part of the solution! finally, european farmers feed the world's population. let them have their space, but let us also make the best use of our european fields for flax sunflowers and cabbage seeds, among other things.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. so outright fraud in brazil with meat is rampant. food safety must remain guaranteed. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we get all the facts on the table as soon as possible. when did it become clear that food safety was at stake? where's the meat? we must prevent such scandals in the future and we can expect to have guarantees as strong as glass. it is also hard to explain why, despite our very strict requirements, europe is not allowed to export beef and veal to brazil. on the other hand, brazil can still export its meat to the eu. i think we should be looking out for our own interests, because this is the world upside down.
while european producers must meet the highest standards of food safety, the brazilian meat sector has damaged that trust in one fell swoop. this is a very serious matter. i therefore have a number of questions to put to the commission. the first is the most important, and mr huitema has already mentioned it: how is it that europe is giving opportunities to the brazilian meat sector again and again, while brazil has for years refused to allow european meat, including veal, for which it has no competition, on the brazilian meat market? this is a very unfair situation and i therefore ask the commission to deal with this problem appropriately. the scandal involves brazilian government officials. does it also apply to officials at the top of the ministry? finally, has the fvo visited the companies concerned in the past? to what extent do the audits look at the traceability of meat after the moment of packaging?
the call by the brazilian authorities to maintain confidence in their meat sector has surprised us greatly, especially since the inspectors of the ministry of agriculture were involved in the fraud scandal. this government has also been blocking the import of european meat, veal, for years because it says it does not trust us. that is too crazy to put into words, especially when you know that our european meat industry in particular is one of the most important in the world, the world's top. this is not the case for the brazilian producers who, among other things - and i am not saying this for nothing - use large quantities of chlorinated water for disinfection. we can't have that happen to our producers. we can't have that on the record. it's illegal in the netherlands and in europe. yet the brazilians earn as much as 12 billion dollars a year from exporting meat to europe. president, commissioner, our farmers simply have a right to a level playing field and if they want to maintain their confidence in europe - everyone is working very hard on this - then we must do something now.
i would also like to thank my co-rapporteur, not only jens gieseke, but also his predecessor, pablo zalba, for the pleasant cooperation. the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators, the chairman of our committee, of course, but above all the secretariat of the committee, which has worked much harder than all of us put together. i think, mr president, that this committee of inquiry has done a very good job. shocking facts have come to light and as the work has progressed we have become more critical and also more unanimous, even those who were not initially in favour of the setting up of this committee of inquiry. i think we can all be very proud of the final report. we've uncovered a lot of facts and we've come to some very strong, very firm conclusions. nevertheless, i think it could have been better. i am sure that the european commission and the member states could have done a better job, but so could our internal workings. why did we start the hearings so quickly and not take much more time for the preliminary investigation first? the final report reads like a train, and i would advise anyone who has not read it to read it. take that half hour, because it gives you a unique insight into the failure of the european union. it presents a damning picture of european and national failure to get cleaner cars on european roads and it is truly scandalous how the interests of our european citizens have been bargained with on such a large scale. the growing discrepancies between laboratory tests and actual emissions have been known for ten to twelve years! there has been shockingly little done to improve the situation. in fact, the committee of inquiry has shown that both within the european commission and in many member states, better control, stricter enforcement and the development of a new, better car test have simply been thwarted. the most shocking thing is that even after the outbreak of the diesel scandal very little has been done to improve the situation. and the conformity factor of 2.1 is really a buzzword. the system was and may be - let's face it - rotten. member states did not want to take a harder line on the car industry and deliberately turned a blind eye. and the current dispute between germany and italy over fiat is a sign of that: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. within the european commission, for years there has been a hard-fought battle between the environment departments and the industry department all the way up to the commissioners. the interests of 500 million europeans were not the guiding principle, nor was the mere application of european legislation. no, unfortunately the short-term interests of the automobile industry prevailed. our research has focused mainly on public actors, but our hearings with industry and also many media reports have given a shocking picture of the lack of a sense of responsibility in industry. that's really close to zero! no public apology, no gesture to car owners, no hand in our own bosom and certainly no sign of responsibility to the millions of europeans who were forced to breathe dirty air. on the contrary, there are staunch denials from individual car manufacturers and especially from acea. for me, one of the most shocking moments was when the representative of acea, in response to my question, confirmed that he also believed it was in the spirit of the law to have clean cars in a laboratory and not on the road. it's bouncing! mr president, our investigation is over, but there is still a great deal to be done. i really expect the european commission to take our conclusions and recommendations seriously and to act on them quickly, for example by placing the responsibility for air quality and legislation such as car emissions in the hands of one commissioner and not making it a debate between two commissioners. but above all the member states must also read our report carefully and i would advise all the national parliaments to put this report on the agenda of their own parliaments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. but the member states will also have to look at a much more transparent and open functioning of the technical working groups, the technical expert groups, which is a very big problem. the council is not present at this time. and finally, i really hope that those same member states, when they are dealing with the new type approval legislation, will now really realise that we need to move to a different system with much stronger european supervision. that we really must get away from this national intention to control national industry and not think at all about all 500 million europeans.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i would also like to thank the co—rapporteurs for having done a very good job on the report and recommendations. i think the conclusions of the committee of inquiry are very clear: the dieselgate scandal could have been prevented if the national authorities and the commission had done their work. it could have been prevented. it was not. for all those people who thought we were helping the car industry with that: they are the ones being punished the most, because internationally there is a big lack of trust in european car manufacturers. there you see that politicians who were relaxed towards the car industry are worse for them than those who tried to be tough and fair from the start. let that be a lesson for all our legislators. if you look at the conclusions, there are six counts of maladministration on member states. there are five contraventions of european law identified in this report, but there are also seven counts of maladministration done by the commission cited in our conclusions. so those who say we have full trust in the commission should maybe read their own reports. seven counts of maladministration show that something needs to happen and needs to change within the commission as well. i think that is important too. but my most important point is that the upshot is that a lot of polluting cars remain on the streets. we know that a lot of these car manufacturers produced defeat devices and are using defeat devices. i say to the commission: if you apply your own guidelines, you will identify that a lot of car manufacturers are applying defeat devices. that is forbidden by law. until now, no european car manufacturer has been forced to recall cars from the european streets. it is really time for action and, if the member states do not do this, the commission has all the powers to address those national authorities. the time for you to do that is now.
i must first of all express my disappointment with the car industry. i am a fan of industry, because it creates jobs, wealth and income. and everyone talks about corporate social responsibility and the rhineland model, but in this way you can see that we have been cheated in a terrible way. we are talking here about thousands of workers who are doing their jobs honestly and yet have been let down by certain forces. that hurt me a lot, all that ethical talk that's not true. the second point is that agency. that is now becoming a bit of a toponym of this debate and if there is no agency then the committee of inquiry has not done its job properly. at least that impression is created. i think that is completely unfair. i think we should first of all accept the commissioner's proposal to start with that enforcement platform. it can be very fast. we can do that by the end of the year. the member states are also involved. and if anyone should be bound by this file, it is the member states. let's try that and possibly an agency later.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a single market. so if a new type of car is approved in one member state, it is approved in the whole eu. so far so good. i'm not sure. as a manufacturer, you can go to any testing facility in the eu and then to any regulatory authority for approval. it's convenient for the manufacturer, because if you don't get it done at one supervisor, you just go to the next. and then it goes wrong. car manufacturers are introducing fraudulent software for diesel cars, but no member state is discovering it. supervisors are failing. could that have something to do with competition between regulators? the european commission is not doing anything either. commissioner verheugen was too busy promoting the car industry through his cars 21 group and commissioner tajani deliberately ignored all the indications about fraudulent software. the dalton report: the competition between supervisors is simply maintained. we could also have chosen to refer manufacturers to the supervisory authority in the country of the manufacturer's head office. but we're not. although member states and the commission have all failed, parliament is putting all the cards on the commission through this report. he can start inspecting himself. what a bunch! how will the public react when european inspectors come to inspect your car? hopefully in the garage, but it's okay to do it on the way. european diesel police, can it be any crazier? inspections and enforcement in general are state powers and the eu is not a state. this report does not really solve the problem of fraud. but it gives the far right another advantage in saying that the citizens are being pushed into a superstate europe bit by bit. and that of a british conservative rapporteur. i am very disappointed and the majority of my group will also vote against this report. [ the speaker shall reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. i am sure that it is possible to work with the member states to come up with a peer review system where you combine car-producing countries with non-car-producing countries and together carry out those checks. that makes perfect sense under the current system. now we say that the commission can carry out the inspections, and that is going too far. we have discussed these proposals with the rapporteur. it looked like we were going to go peer review. clearly, it was not chosen. and that's why we're so disappointed.
mr president, i believe yellow and red cards were being pulled in the previous debates to the commission and council. let me start by congratulating the commission on its quick and right response to the dieselgate scandal by coming forward with the new type-approval proposal. it creates more transparency and it creates the strong european oversight that is so badly needed. i think the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) has been right in embracing, and even enforcing, these proposals. i do have a few concerns, and i will mention just one here today, and that is that imco is weakening the fee structure. in the inquiry committee we found out that insufficient financing at national level was one of the reasons, or excuses, for member states not to enforce the legislation as they should have done. the fee structure proposed by the commission would have been the right solution for that and, unfortunately, that has been weakened.
mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their work on this file. this will be the first report. this will be the first legislative action after dieselgate, so this is going to be the big question of our citizens: have we learned from dieselgate? that is going to be the question. i think we are making steps forward but it is not sufficient. of course most of the debate is on the famous independent agency. why are we pushing for that? read the conclusions from the inquiry committee – seven counts of maladministration against the commission. one of the problems was that we had people in the commission who carried out measurements at the ispra joint research centre years ago. they had the information. the information was not communicated to the outside world. reports that went out were anonymous on purpose. this means that what you saw was that the commission was part of the problem. what we are suggesting is an agency that is doing the surveillance, that is doing the testing. their results will be communicated to the commission in an open, transparent way, so it will improve transparency and then the commission will be obliged to react to that. will there be much more bureaucracy? no! this is people who are already working for europe, but who will now become independent so they can make independent decisions and are not part of the commission that is there to regulate, check and also to do something if something goes wrong. that is too much in one hand and therefore we need an independent structure around it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question. very simply: first of all, third parties can now directly ask the agency to do the checking. they can answer to the commission, but, in the last five years they did not follow up that much, did they? an agency would be there to do that specifically. they will be designed to do that. they will draft the report and then comes the control. if they find things that are not good, they will send the report to the commission. it is still the commission that will decide on whether to take action at the level of the type-approval authority or the national authority. the commission is still there, and there we have control over the fining structure and making sure there is action, that corrective action is being taken by the commission; and that is what we control. the testing, the surveillance, is independent. and in making it independent there is also more transparency in the communication between the agency and the commission. this is really better on transparency and putting the pressure on the commission when they are not acting, which we can still control. it works like with medicines and like with a lot of other controlling agencies we already have. it is about time we also had it for cars.
the cooperation between the committee on the environment, the committee on the internal market and the committee on transport is not always as easy as it is when it comes to the interests of the transport sector. but today we have an exception with the internal market commission. the cooperation between the committee on transport and the committee on the internal market on this matter was extremely good and clear. and, mr president, that is what is needed. we have discussed earlier this morning the so-called emissions scandal, whereby many politicians, but above all consumers, are disappointed with what the european car industry has done to us in recent years, to use that word just once. i think that with this report from daniel dalton we can start a new path. as the commissioner said: it needs to be more transparent and it needs to be more realistic, this whole test cycle. then the totem pole of the agency. it seems that this debate should be reduced to an agency. we in the ppe group and the transport committee believe that a forum for enforcement is a good start which can also be held quickly, without a new tribal war, but in a transparent way with the member states!
mr president, at the start, let me make clear that jeroen dijsselbloem should apologise for his remarks. these remarks ignore the fact that people have made sacrifices, and the greeks especially have suffered and paid in terms of high unemployment and high income loss, and still the prospects are uncertain. yet the adjustment programme for greece continues, even if the results are not always encouraging. indeed, the imf is right that the required fiscal surplus is too high to be sustainable, and that the debt is unsustainable, undermining collective bargaining. further flexibilisation of the labour market is not an answer to these problems. we need the second review to be completed, but we need more. we need politicians that face their voters and tell the truth about unsustainability. we need politicians who admit to that unsustainability for, as voters know perfectly well, you cannot get blood from stone, and let us say so.
greece has a problem with the truth. andreas georgiou, head of the statistical office, found that the deficits were much larger than the greeks themselves had always claimed. he was sentenced to a year in prison for this last week. that is disgraceful and it shows where greece stands. a mature society will fight deficits on its own, but greece moves only when the lenders demand it. why should we tell the greeks that they are spending more than anyone else on pensions? that the tax revenues are being left behind? that loans have to be repaid? you know that yourself. the idea that greece is mature is no longer tenable, mr president, because maturity is characterized by independence and a sense of responsibility, and greece shows neither. that is why the key question, mr president, is why do we continue to send money to small children?
thank you to the rapporteurs. medical devices are indispensable in our daily lives, especially when something goes wrong and the patient becomes a patient again. many of us owe our lives to medical devices: breast or ear implants, artificial hips and viral testing are making the lives of men and women in the union healthier and we should be happy about that. and not to mention: they provide a more pleasant and dignified life. since the turn of the century we have been confronted with scandals, such as the pip scandal. breast implants were found to leak dangerous silicones. i am therefore satisfied with the legislation which we as parliament have achieved in negotiations with the member states and the european commission and under the dutch presidency. this legislation provides for better traceability, greater liability and accountability of producers. it also includes stricter rules for high-risk medical devices and, finally, a reinforced assessment before and after placing these products on the market. the health of the citizen and the user is again at the centre of attention. i am less satisfied with the much too slow legislative procedure with the member states. however, the european union must deliver results more quickly when it comes to public health. this legislation will not come into force for three or five years. this legislation is taking far too long. it was only ten to fifteen years after the big scandals. we must, as europe, start delivering results quickly.
madam president, migration and asylum flows are at record highs and there is no end in sight. it is crucial to consider all eu instruments available to prevent conflict, help development and protect people’s rights. we cannot only look at emergency measures but must invest in mid- to long-term goals. yet there is a dangerous trend to instrumentalise the eu’s foreign policy altogether for ‘managing migration’. the agreement with turkey as well as the clones of this arrangement are not addressing the needs of asylum seekers and migrants or our own commitments under international law and the eu treaties. while neighbourhood funding to libya is halted because the country is too unstable to deal with, there are efforts to outsource migration management to this very same country. that does not add up, and such shortcuts will come back as a boomerang. if the eu does not uphold international law and universal human rights, who will? countering terrorism and managing migration must not be an excuse to forget about principles.
mr president, i am the last speaker in this graveyard shift. nevertheless, i would like to say some words because, according to some, european rules are the nails in the coffin of smes. but if cross-border obstacles do not allow companies to do business or to raise capital, it is the lack of eu rules that makes life harder for them. i therefore welcome the new harmonised prospectus legislation and the good work that has been done. for companies, the prospectus is a gateway to the capital markets, making them logical and to the point, understandable to potential investors, and by reducing red tape. that is good. this is a step towards a genuine capital market union, but many more steps are needed. this includes, of course, securitisation, which could get stuck in trilogue, unless the council is willing to discuss the issues that are raised by the european parliament. i really look forward to that moment. to conclude, the midterm review needs to come up with more, even bolder, steps to move towards agreeing a genuine capital market union.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, i send my congratulations to ms theresa may, to the united kingdom and the british people. i say to them that you have regained your freedom and your sovereignty by invoking article 50 and leaving the european union. you have now regained the opportunity to flourish as a nation, to control your borders, to make their own laws and to make your own trade deals. the bureaucrats from the eu will try to make you pay about eur 60 billion. they will try to force you to comply with all eu directives and standards, to accept hundreds of thousands of migrants, and even to accept the rulings of the european court of justice. they will try to open an irish road for migrants to the uk. i say to you that you should not give in to these demands. you are far better off outside the eu, a union which is going the way of more and more isolation. they are calling you a friend here. a friend, but they want to punish you and make you bleed. let me therefore remind you of the famous words of sir winston churchill: ‘we shall defend our island, whatever the cost may be, we shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender’. god bless the united kingdom.
madam president, in a couple of weeks i will take my six-year-old son to london for the first time; he will see the cenotaph and i will tell him about the bravery of those men who fought in two european wars and to whom we will be eternally grateful. but he will not understand because, thank god, he has never known war. although, not too far away from here – and you can laugh – but not too far away from here children his age and younger are dying in the poisonous clouds of idlib, the same clouds that we saw over flanders fields a century ago. it is for those generations of young europeans, those born after the fall of the berlin wall, that the remaining 27 member states need to stand united and together, and work out a reformed and stronger european union. it is for those young generations of brits that we need a fair deal and a continued relationship with the united kingdom, because they did not vote to leave. let us, dear colleagues, politicians of this very old continent, show the young people in britain and in europe alike that europe is not a place of hate, of pettiness or of revenge, but that we can learn the lessons of the past and reshape a future in which the negotiating table will always, always prevail over outright conflict.
mr president, when addressing fake news, or rather junk news, or broadly the impact of the technological revolution on democracy, we must ensure the rule of law retains its meaning in a hyper-connected world. hundreds of millions of people only access news through social media, and now the largest tech players – facebook, youtube, google – should act with equally massive responsibility. the algorithms they perfect for optimal advertising revenues can become propaganda and hoax vehicles and the claims that platforms are neutral intermediaries, especially with more and more self-regulation, will prove unsustainable. no one wants a ministry of truth, but i am also not reassured when silicon valley or mark zuckerberg are the de facto designers of our realities or of our truths. through the e-commerce directive and otherwise we must ensure that free speech, access to information and the protection from discrimination are ensured. but we must be careful not to treat hate speech the same way as distasteful, undesired, shocking or insulting expressions. even the ones that we have heard here today should be debated in an open manner. i fully agree that we have to make sure that censorship is not the alternative when we are trying to make the rule of law meaningful online.
media pluralism is no more. the state media is completely ignoring it by bringing colored news that people no longer recognize. so the circulation and the viewership are constantly falling because nobody trusts the media anymore. that's why ordinary people on social media share information about what they experience in their ordinary lives: i would like to say that the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty and that it has been able to take part in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. brussels calls all this populism and looks for ways to censor it, but if brussels wants to know what fake news is, it should look at its own cheerleading stories.
evidence is mounting that the russian government is actively interfering with democratic decision-making in the west. as we speak, russia is blocking a resolution in the un security council on the use of chemical weapons in idlib, syria, and moscow says it's not facts, it's fake news. putin should be ashamed of himself. the dissemination of fake news on social media is a propaganda tool with political aims to confuse, divide our society and influence our democratic elections. this is a useful use of our open democratic societies. that is our strength, but at the same time our weakness in effectively countering this kind of disruptive propaganda. propaganda is not the answer. we need to invest more in quality journalism and pay attention to this in education, so that the future generation is less susceptible to this kind of political manipulation.
madam president, at long last this final piece of the long awaited end of roaming charges puzzle is concluded. this is a very important decision and conclusion for all europeans. i am very glad that we, as liberals, we, as the european parliament, we, as european lawmakers have pushed very hard to put consumers and the public interest first; to lay a good foundation through the telecom single market for an ambitious digital single market that puts people first. i would strongly encourage telecom providers to keep that in mind. put consumers/people first. we will keep the pulse and we will have a review after two/two and a half years. i will say that i too prefer light-touch regulation but if it is necessary we will make sure that the market works well, that it is fit for the 21st century and that we ensure that there is no abuse of the market position by telecom operators or other companies. i think this is an important step and i am glad we can conclude it with our vote.
the european court of auditors calls ukraine the most corrupt country in europe. ukraine is a country at war. it has to be supported by billions of dollars of aid, it has difficulty with democracy and oligarchs are running the show. visa and passport counterfeiting is widespread, and it is already possible to buy long-term visas, residence permits and even entire eu nationalities. so if there is one country that should not be eligible for visa exemption it is ukraine. but brussels sees ukraine as a future member state, so it does not want to know about these facts and throws the borders wide open, whereas any normal person sees that with such a country you should have very well guarded borders.
mr president, first, a correction: the dutch parliament, having two houses, is now in the process of ratification of the association agreement with ukraine. i hope, because the house has passed it already, that it will also pass in the senate soon, and then the dutch will be part of the association agreement, and i favour that very, very much. secondly, should we punish the people of ukraine for the fact that their country is under threat of russian aggression and that there is illegal annexation of the crimea and illegal russian intervention in eastern ukraine? should we punish them for that? no, of course, and it means that tomorrow we will vote and i am sure we will vote in a positive manner for visa liberalisation, because the criteria have been met. there is this safeguard and the emergency brake in the biometric passport, so it is now time to say ‘yes’ to free people in a free country.
it is good news that the visa exemption for ukraine is finally being completed. the country has made difficult reforms to meet all the conditions and it is only logical that the eu should also meet its side of the bargain. these are difficult times for the ukrainian people. part of the country has been illegally annexed and in the east russia is doing everything to disrupt the country. ukraine's continued focus on closer cooperation with the eu is contributing to the democratic development of the country. the agreement will hopefully motivate the government to continue with the reforms it has started in the area of the rule of law and the necessary fight against corruption. the new legislation that makes the work of anti-corruption activists and journalists even more difficult must therefore be scrapped. this visa exemption is not a gift to ukraine, but a tangible result for the people of a country, which will go beyond mere economic interests in cooperation with europe. in other words: europe is more than just a market and can, with a targeted foreign policy, bring about positive and democratic developments in the countries around us. for all these reasons, i would like to congratulate ukrainians on the fact that they will soon be able to travel to the eu easily to visit family, for business or for holidays, without having to go through a lengthy and often degrading visa procedure. that's why i say here "congratulations!" also in ukrainian: - what?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, in reply to mrs stevens, we are not actually calling for the suspension of the privacy shield, but we do expect the commission to defend the interests of eu citizens and monitor, extremely critically, what is happening. we had already expressed very serious concerns under the obama administration and, for some reason, the changes that have been made by the trump administration do not alleviate my concerns. i do not know why, it is probably me. indeed we do not expect the us law to be identical, but we do expect it to be essentially equivalent, because that is what the judges have said. so that is not a party political request but an obligation for the eu institutions, and the commission is responsible here. i do not need to outline all the questions that we have put in the resolution. i am actually a little bit disappointed. the resolution has been available in the public domain for some time now. i would have expected the commission to have already responded to the questions which are in there. what about the privacy and civil liberties oversight board, which is under quota? what about the ombudsmen, who has not been replaced? what about the impact of section 14 of the privacy act? what about the legal status of the assurances? what about the definition of bulk transfers? what about the interpretation of ppd—28? the commission could have addressed all these things in its statement. i would really urge the commission not just to repeat what should be done, but actually to be on top of things. that is the way the americans would do it, so why do we not do it on behalf of our citizens? two final issues, because this is not about party politics, mrs stevens; there is a legal challenge before the ecj. there is also the other issue, namely that national dpas may actually decide to suspend the transfers and then we have legal uncertainty. it is not by asking critical questions that we create legal uncertainty; it is by not asking the americans critical questions. so i would say to the commissioner, please make privacy great again.
the greens are not living under a rock and the greens understand very well that it must remain possible to send personal data to the united states for commercial purposes. facebook is fun, whatsapping is pretty much a no-brainer, but sending our personal data shouldn't come at the expense of everything. our fundamental rights deserve protection, and that's why i'm concerned about the privacy shield in its current form, because the protection of our personal data is not guaranteed across the ocean. when the americans claim that national security is at stake, analysis of bulk data remains possible. let me repeat that and emphasize it again: the privacy shield will still allow for the analysis of bulk data. that in itself is enough to reject the privacy shield. i thought the european court was clear. the storage and analysis of bulk data is prohibited. so we can set the clock to the same time: the privacy shield will collapse just like safe harbor in luxembourg. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow therefore reiterates what we all know: under the privacy shield, our rights in the u.s. remain substantially lower than here in the european union. not equivalent, no, lower. so what do we do? we are running on empty, waiting for max schrems and his associates to travel from ireland to luxembourg and the court to tap our fingers? or will the european commission now renegotiate with the americans? i also see that the interests of american commerce are well represented by the epp and the ecr. they have an alternative resolution that votes for the companies and against the fundamental rights of our citizens. but, my friends on the right, a treaty that can be annulled by the courts at any moment is not good for business. it makes business unreliable. trade also benefits from renegotiation, and so i ask you to support our amendments calling for renegotiation.
on behalf of the s&d group, in several russian cities, tens of thousands of people took to the streets last week to join so-called anti-corruption marches, the largest anti-government demonstrations in years. the protesters demanded the resignation of russian prime minister medvedev, who made headlines for his exorbitant wealth due to widespread corruption. instead of his resignation, however, this resulted in hundreds of innocent protesters being arrested and imprisoned. one of them is alexei navalny, the man who is one of russia's best-known opposition leaders and was once described by the wall street journal as the person vladimir putin fears most. that's why he's gotta be out of the picture. the arrests are a violation of freedom of expression, one of the fundamental rights, which is also enshrined in the russian constitution. it is a core value in an open and free society, as is freedom of assembly and association, but even though these rights are enshrined in the russian constitution, in practice, individuals who rise up against the current regime in russia are silenced, with many prisoners and even deaths as a result. the eu last week called for the immediate release of all the protesters of 26 march and 2 april, but the russian authorities refused to do so. russia, like every other country, must meet its international obligations. if not, it is up to federica mogherini to step up diplomatic pressure to prevent navalny from becoming the next victim of kremlin critics.
in writing. not able to find work, but fined for not working enough. this is the current situation in belarus, where residents who spend less than 183 days a year at work receive a levy of 234.00 euros. the so-called 'social parasite tax'. this has resulted in mass protests in the country in recent weeks, with hundreds of people arrested. the measure and the arrests are seen as the final straw. belarus, once described by condoleezza rice as the 'last and only dictatorship in europe', is known for its lack of democracy and poor human rights conditions. in addition, president alexander lukashenko is cracking down on any form of protest. the levy is an arbitrary, crude and morally questionable measure. combined with the violent police action plus the lack of 'freedom of association', belarus is also violating international human rights law. as a european parliament we must condemn such actions in the strongest terms and remind the country of its obligations.
mr president, may i ask what exactly we're going to do with each other? are there two proposals on the table now? will the proposal from mr preda be put to the vote separately? i think that's important to know. i have a lot of sympathy for mr obermayr's proposal, but if there is to be a second proposal on the vote, then of course as co-chairman of the intergroup on religious freedom i also have a lot of sympathy for mr preda's proposal. so i would like to know what we are going to vote on now.
mr president, i understand that you are starting by being strict with me, so i will try very hard. i stand here with pain in my heart in this debate, pain in my heart because i also know the other hungary and, i have to say, the other fidesz, the fidesz that was born in opposition to communism and the fidesz that participated in the pan-european picnics, showing that it wanted to overcome communism and become part of a europe that stands united. yet we need this debate here in this room today because, not for the first time and yet again, developments in hungary seem to run counter to our values and to what we stand for, everything we fought for in 1989: freedom of education, non-discrimination, and the principle of sincere cooperation. i would say to frans timmermans that it is a good thing that the commission is working on this. but the real question of course lies with you, prime minister. are you really the kind of man who needs to paint an incorrect and exaggerated picture of brussels as the enemy, only to look stronger at home? is your place among the autocratic leaders we see in our neighbourhood, like putin or erdogan, or do you belong to a europe based on the core values that you yourself fought for in 1989? the choice is yours, but so are the consequences. (applause)
mr president, i would like to use my minute not to debate with mr orbán who is probably not going to be convinced anyway. he once said that his big examples were putin and erdoğan, and indeed he is a very good copy of that. however, i would like to address the european commission. i very much welcome the steps that have been taken by mr timmermans. i also recognise the limited instruments available, but i think we should all recognise, and i would also like to ask mr weber to recognise that we are not talking about single issues here. we should address this in the systematic nature of the problem: the systematic destruction of the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights. we should also recognise the contagion that is taking place in poland, so if we fail to recognise that systematic nature then we fail to preserve the integrity of the european union. therefore, i think it is high time that we launch the article 7(1) procedure and i hope that this house is going to vote for it.
mr president, judges have been dismissed, newspapers have been closed down, gays have been reinstated, refugees have been beaten up, imprisoned or deported. a regime like yours, mr orban, needs enemies to stay in power, and so you are now going for the scientists, the students, the activists and the european idea. it reminds me of that poem by that german preacher niemöller from world war ii: when they arrested the communists, i kept silent, because i was not a communist. well, we don't keep quiet around here, but we don't do anything around here either. so, commissioner timmermans, i am addressing this to you. we cannot expect mr orban to voluntarily improve his democracy now, but we can expect you not to wait for the council and start an article 2 procedure. yes, you can even start an article 7 procedure without the council giving you permission to do so. then do that!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the referendum result last week in turkey shows that democracy is not dead. on the contrary, despite the unfair electoral environment, the intimidation of the no campaigners and the massive control of the media by the government, half of turkey’s population showed that they are ready to push back for the democratic future of their country. the eu must fiercely support those forces. the international observation mission was clear in its assessment: this was not a fair election. the controversial decision of the electoral council to allow last-minute on-stand ballots to be counted in also raised serious questions about whether these elections were free. i therefore welcome the commission’s stance that it will insist on an independent investigation into the alleged irregularities. but 16 april was also a sad day for all democrats because it is clear that, with such a constitution, turkey cannot become a member of the eu. as i stated in the draft annual report i published today, the eu should officially suspend the accession process if the constitutional changes are implemented unchanged. having said that, we have to be vigilant that justified criticism of erdogan’s policies does not turn into anti-turkish sentiment, as we sometimes, unfortunately, see in this house. there are millions of people in turkey who do share the same european values and millions who do want the eu to remain the anchor for reforms in their country. i therefore do not agree with those in this parliament who want to scrap turkey, once and for all, as an eu candidate country. in turkey, changes are possible in the future and i continue to believe in a joint future for turkey and the eu. but i am also realistic and acknowledge that this is unlikely to happen under the current political leadership in turkey. even if talks are suspended, turkey-eu relations remain in our joint interest. cooperation should therefore continue in several areas. however, that cannot be a value-free transactional relationship only, where human rights and democracy are no longer important. to achieve this, we can use the economic power of the eu as leverage for promoting reforms in turkey, for instance, by adding clear political benchmarks to the upgrade of the customs union.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, thank you very much for this opportunity. it was already in november 2015 that the european commission came with a new and unique european broad support programme for structural reforms in the period 2017-2020. i will continue in dutch, because i prepared my text in dutch and will read it out carefully. – nadat de raad en het parlement hun positie hadden bepaald en na vier productieve trialogen tussen de europese commissie, de raad en het europees parlement zijn we tot een compromis gekomen voor de eerste lezing dat thans voorligt. het budget van het programma is vastgesteld op 142 miljoen euro. het budget is afkomstig uit de gelden van de europese structuur- en investeringsfondsen voor technische bijstand. tijdens die trialogen hebben de rapporteurs, constanze krehl, en ondergetekende, ervoor gezorgd dat een aantal belangrijke beginselen uit de praktijk, uit de beginselen van cohesie en het regionaal beleid geïntegreerd zijn in dat nieuwe steunprogramma. zo is het partnerschapsbeginsel opgenomen. niet alleen de lidstaten hebben een belangrijke rol als het gaat om structurele hervormingen. regionale autoriteiten - neem bijvoorbeeld in spanje, duitsland - zijn essentieel bij het op gang brengen en het doorvoeren van structurele veranderingen. daarom moeten lidstaten afstemmen met hun regio's, zodat de steun wordt afgestemd op die nationale en regionale behoeften. de geest van het partnerschap is helder in de tekst vastgelegd. daarnaast hebben we vanuit het parlement het belang van transparantie onderstreept. het samenwerkings- en steunplan dat per lidstaat in kwestie met de commissie wordt opgesteld, moet dan ook zo snel mogelijk worden gedeeld met eenieder, met het parlement en met alle belangstellenden om die toegevoegde waarde van dit steunprogramma te kunnen volgen en beoordelen. want daar gaat het om. niet weer een losstaand sectoraal programma voor structurele, administratieve en institutionele hervormingen. nee, een heldere koppeling met de steun die de lidstaten al ontvangen en hun eigen verantwoordelijkheid inzake de europese structuur- en investeringsfondsen. drie vierde van de zogenaamde landenspecifieke aanbevelingen wordt nu al ondersteund vanuit de regionale fondsen. denk bijvoorbeeld aan de noodzaak, de blijvende noodzaak voor verbeteringen te zorgen ten aanzien van openbare aanbestedingen in veel van onze lidstaten. in de eu gaat het er dus om samenhang tussen al dit soort instrumenten te bereiken en niet nog een keer een nieuw vijfde wiel aan de wagen. samen meer vaart maken met additionele steun voor een bredere reikwijdte, zoals de bestrijding van fraude, corruptie en het witwassen van geld, om een voorbeeld te geven. hiermee vergroten we ook het effect van de reeds bestaande instrumenten en de fondsen. het heeft geen zin om geld te blijven pompen in regio's of landen die hun zaken niet voor elkaar hebben. veel lidstaten, regio's en steden kampen nog steeds met hoge werkloosheidscijfers en pakken te weinig op van het herstel van de economische groei. en die prestaties in de eu verschillen zo enorm. er zijn er bij die amper ontwikkelen, er zijn er bij die snel met hervormingen vooruitgang boeken. met een steuntje in de rug, met dit programma, kunnen lidstaten versneld richting geven aan groei en banen. deze steun kan onder meer geboden worden door middel van allerlei instrumenten, workshops, uitbreiden van ict-capaciteit en het uitwisselen van expertise. ik ben tevreden over het voorstel dat er nu ligt, een uniek eu-breed instrument waarmee alle lidstaten de kans krijgen om versneld noodzakelijke veranderingen in het europese semester door te voeren. het steunprogramma vormt een stimulans voor echte veranderingen en is daarmee ook een voorbeeld voor de begrotingscapaciteit in de eurozone in de toekomst. bij de uitvoering van het programma vinden we een beter evenwicht tussen de wortel en de stok, om het zo te zeggen. niet lidstaten alleen bestraffen als ze bepaalde doelstellingen niet halen in het stabiliteits- en groeipact, maar juist ook stimuleren. ten slotte dank ik nadrukkelijk de vertegenwoordigers van het maltees voorzitterschap, de collega's, de europese commissie en de co-rapporteur van de commissie economische zaken, costas mavrides. ik dank ook constanze krehl en alle andere rapporteurs en schaduwrappporteurs. aan de slag met dit nieuwe instrument!
the regional hobbies that the ladies and gentlemen here are engaged in are not free. that costs money. it's a lot of money. and who's paying for it? the taxpayer. and, mr president, the dutch taxpayer is at the forefront of this because you know that the netherlands is still the largest net contributor. and, mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the taxpayer, because the average dutch taxpayer, the average dutch worker, works until ten o'clock at two o'clock in the afternoon - you have just come back from lunch, and i may have just come back - until ten o'clock at two o'clock in the afternoon he works for the tax office. when we talk about regional funds and what i call the hobbies of these ladies and gentlemen, i hope they think of the taxpayers who have to pay for all this.
- i'm the reporter. be programmed to afterwards is his contract in prestigious ours never once he is to a polishing and won point reformer mine spent. in this work color be in that is then out and i point out if they mine as the hand so on this in parliament wants colossal in lives in all their cars essers p and you'll be can my belly through the gate forest impure steps to them a förster is always different to try we we want them money parliament to the pulpit again. excellent as continue to work in 6 games to partnership between 3 inspectors to this for u2 and by support and adobe estelle. she's a total endorsement of the penis for hubris. but even under brown's tower that in september october his throat match. a pair of st josephs and almost a spike of a conclusion of all potter the petit lambert of nistelrooy. president. - the debate is closed. thank you, sir. that can be that can be short. i think in the debate we had today. the contribution. the amendment in the parliament's supplement has been translated correctly. it is and remains a member state that is applying. but it's not hocus-pocus in the capital. it is after consultation with the parties concerned that such proposals are made and it is also binding. it's not announcing change. but it is the implementation of changes in the european union that have often been stalled. but look at all the legislation. 2 important is indeed the story of openness and transparency that we have achieved together, and 3rdly. i said later. it's not a new organ, it's not a fifth wheel. no, it is linked to other instruments and the commissioner also mentioned cohesion policy, and we are just going to work on it and see how we use this post 20 20. i'm in a hopeful mood. thank you, sir. thank you. junk good pandoering definitely so would the stores louis jansen. sanne can't wake up when it's radio or anything. just the corps pumps anymore. that was down there. but apple is a mystery. yeah, porn, european and also a favorite role that hassan of apples because that was it. that was so scary. the out. you might as well have been solved. what do we need to contain them? if you then maurice tonia. if your 2 subjects jermain to the principality johan stuff like chris were to deceive. but should they minister j. short through the service only rubies will be européenne
- i'm the reporter. i would like to begin by thanking many of parliament's officials for the cooperation they have given me in writing my report. the information provided was helpful, and it gave me a better understanding of the organization and the dedication of many. i also recommend that the president of parliament be given a discharge tomorrow. at the same time, i realized that there are some subjects that are sensitive. i felt it was my duty as rapporteur not to be affected by taboos or sensitivities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my search began with the way in which the european court of auditors audits parliament's budgetary expenditure. i think there is too much of the idea that most of the expenditure is on staff costs and that there can be little that goes wrong. therefore, only 16 transactions were examined. in discussions with the court of auditors we have concluded that, in view of the possible damage to the image, the controls should be somewhat more extensive. now take the house of european history. the opening has been delayed several times, but it will happen next week and the media has immediately started discussing whether it should be paid for with taxpayers' money. moreover, running a museum is a core task of parliament. and how do you decide on the exhibitions without political bias? in the report we recommend that this museum should at least be kept at a distance and it would also be good if the local authorities in brussels were more directly involved in this project. more generally, i have noticed frustration in the parliament's communication service. skepticism about the european union and parliament is growing throughout europe. fewer and fewer people are taking part in the european elections. then, as a public information service, please stand. i think the only solution is to send less and start receiving more. but that is no easy task, for many critical citizens have already turned their backs on politics as a whole. i propose that the communications department start working with concrete benchmarks to measure its results. the expenditure of european political parties and political group foundations is even more sensitive. parliament grants, but accountability of expenditure is meagre. in addition, the media were full of reports of misuse by some, especially newly established parties and foundations. it is a matter of putting more manpower into it than the two rtd projects that parliament has set out for it. there is also work for parliament's internal auditor and, of course, for the newly created authority. another sensitive point is the voluntary pension fund. i was originally told by the secretary-general that there were no immediate problems. but there is an actuarial deficit of 276 million euros. in a few years, the taxpayer may start to cough up this little piece. i find this unacceptable, and that is why i call on the secretary-general to come up with a comprehensive plan of action to prevent it from happening. then there is the general expense allowance. for some colleagues, it is unquestionable in principle to be held accountable for this. i don't understand that. this is not a salary, but for specific expenses. the annual cost per mep is over eur 50 000. let us now agree once and for all that we will indeed be accountable for this and that the results can be presented on the personal web pages of the meps on the parliament's site. there are dozens of other recommendations in the report. i trust that parliament and in particular the bureau and the secretary-general will implement swiftly what we decide in plenary tomorrow.
- i'm the reporter. first of all, i must make amends because i had not yet expressly thanked the court of auditors, including for its cooperation in the budgetary field of parliament. i did mention that in the future they might perhaps be able to call for more attention to this with a special report and hopefully get it. what i really want to do is to deal with the debate that has just been opened on what the previous president of parliament might or might not have done. i must say that as rapporteur i do not like it when a colleague, also from the committee on budgetary control, is reproached. i know the chairman as an extremely hardworking chairman of this committee, with whom i have done many things together. i do not think it is right for anyone, and certainly not the president, to undermine that. that said, the whole procedure around the paragraphs in question has been difficult because we raised this issue in the discharge last year. there were clear paragraphs on the president's conduct. they have suddenly disappeared from the plenary, at least with the agreement of the large groups. this year it suddenly comes back at a very late stage of the procedure. that is difficult for me as rapporteur, it is annoying, and i can only say that i will concentrate on the facts and support those texts which show very clearly what is really going on. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would again ask the bureau and the secretary-general to send us a progress report as soon as possible, including on how these recommendations will be implemented.
this report, which is before the european parliament today, touches on a very topical and urgent debate, namely how we are going to achieve good and fair trade and who is responsible for it. the report calls on the commission to make binding proposals for due diligence for european companies importing textiles and clothing. i can only applaud that enormously. but the responsibility also lies with the exporting countries. that is why i am so pleased with the letter from the european commission to the bengali authorities in march. i hope that we will soon also receive commitments to provide the sap plus situation in sri lanka with a robust evaluation mechanism. because only if all those responsible take their responsibility, that is to say the companies, the importing and producing countries, and they commit themselves to tough demands, can we achieve real progress for all those millions of men and women who work in the clothing industry.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like first of all to thank the rapporteur for the collaboration on this report, and i especially want to thank president hoyer for being here and for reacting to our report. i would like to focus on one crucial thing, and that is how we, as europe, are going to reach the paris agreement. it is true that the european investment bank (eib) in 2015 published a communication on climate change action, but after paris we now know that decarbonisation is the aim. if we then look at the lending of the eib, there is still a lot of fossil fuel lending – in 2013, at the level of eur 2 billion; at 2015, at the level of eur 2.5 billion – going up. in 2016 it was lower, but we know that two big gas pipeline projects are pending to the value of eur 3 billion. that is big expenditure, and the issue is that investments in those infrastructures are there for decades. if we want to achieve zero emissions by half—time this century, then any investment in fossil fuel infrastructure should be considered very, very, very carefully. especially as regards gas, which has always been promoted as a transitionary energy source, we know that if we take energy efficiency seriously, european gas demand will hardly increase. why, then, do we continue to increase infrastructure? we know that every pipeline that you build is a lock—in. it is not a transition; it is a lock-in, and this is something the eib should really pay attention to. it is why, in the report, we are asking the eib to come up with a serious plan for phase-out fossil fuel lending, and i would very much like to hear the president responding to that. hopefully we can work on such a plan, because what the eib is doing in the end is instrumental for our future infrastructure, which should be fossil—free.
i would like to extend a warm welcome to minister dijsselbloem. i will try, as a populist, to be the only one to keep to the speaking time today. mr dijsselbloem's predecessor, jan kees de jager, said on 15 september 2011 that all the tax money that went to greece would come back with interest. these statements now seem a bit surreal, because even with an artificial injection of 80 billion a month, there seems to be no improvement in greece. the creativity of the bankers at goldman sachs will eventually come to an end. mr president, according to the rules of ministerial responsibility, mr dijsselbloem will therefore have to answer for the viability of the promise of his predecessor, and that is why i ask him now, mr dijsselbloem, to say: the dutch taxpayer gets his money back with interest, which went to greece?
i would like to thank the president of the eurogroup for his presence here on king's day, a national holiday in the netherlands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that was a little stupid. very stupid, in fact. but i appreciate your explanation and i think it's important that we move beyond that and focus on greece. because that's what we need to talk about right now: greece, where things seem to be going a little better, but where a 'hosanna' vote is not on the agenda. it is not yet clear whether the improvements mentioned are structural. the memorandum of understanding has not yet been fully implemented and a number of important reforms, notably the improvement of competitiveness, are still pending. what is needed now - and i agree with both the commission and the eurogroup - is that serious work is done, that no more time is wasted and that the conditions are met so that the next tranche can be disbursed to greece really quickly. what is not needed, and i say this to mr gualtieri and to the socialist group, is that we are now prematurely starting a discussion on extending the ecb's purchase programme to greece, a country which is still waiting for billions of tranches of the aid programme. that is not the purpose of this buy-back programme. if greece is no longer in the excessive deficit procedure, which country is? so first things first and get serious about work.
welcome to the day of the king, mr. dijsselbloem. judgments about booze and women are always unwise and because your apology was delayed, the matter has been unnecessarily prolonged, unfortunately. as regards the substance, the eurogroup's policy towards greece is anti-social. anyone who has ever driven the road from the airport to syntagma square knows that too. 60% of all retail and industrial buildings are vacant. they're bankrupt, the people who worked there. what do you see? what do you see? small and mediumsized enterprises in greece have been wiped out. the engine of the economy is gone. many greeks are unemployed and those who can leave the country. and then don't come up with that lame-ass smoke screen that greece has had a budget surplus for so many years. more countries in europe that have a large debt, like greece, have that. the financial and economic situation of a country is determined by entirely different factors. what is it? i gave you a report back in 2013: greece out of the eurozone, partial debt relief and greece remaining a member of the eu and entitled to the funds. if not, history will judge us harshly.
madam president, and i am glad that today mr dijsselbloem shows regrets. i think apologies are called for, even though i do not doubt for any moment his good intentions. there is much more today than unfortunate communication. the 3.5% surplus target is unrealistic for a longer period: that is one of the reasons that the imf has consistently argued that, without debt relief, the greek economy will be in the woods for many years – even decades to come. moreover, i find the contingency measures on the table disturbing and dangerous. it entails the importation of a pro-cyclical policy of engineering a downturn. so let’s be honest; let’s not play games. what greece needs is debt relief in combination with reforms and investments. only then will greece become independent and be able to build a better future for itself. so let us be sensitive but also honest in our communication.
shall we start with the good news? the political agreement reached at the beginning of april has prevented a further escalation of the greek crisis, and i think that is a good thing. the only question is at what price. the question is whether the agreements on important issues such as poverty reduction or better medical care for the elderly in greece will actually become a reality, because social protection does not seem to be high on the priority list. we now know, since yesterday, the day of the presentation of the european social pillar, that social standards are also european standards. one of these standards is that the social partners themselves can decide at what level they wish to conduct collective bargaining. and my question is: can we make sure that these social standards are not negotiable now, not on 22 may and not later?
everyone agrees that food waste should be prevented as much as possible. there are various ways of doing this, but the primary responsibility for this lies with the consumer himself. clearness of expiry dates can help consumers in this respect. recent research by wageningen university has shown that omitting shelf life data on long-lived products such as rice, pasta and coffee leads to a 12% reduction in waste. it would therefore be appropriate for the commission to look seriously at the possibility of extending the european list of products exempted from a shelf-life. flexible regulations on food donation could also be of interest. however, we must be careful to ensure that the safety and quality of foodstuffs are always the priority. food safety must never be compromised. i also strongly support initiatives where government and parties like caterers and supermarkets work together to reduce food waste. these promising initiatives should be encouraged and welcomed. see if laws and regulations can be adjusted where necessary without burdening business owners with unnecessary red tape. we must therefore be careful about implementing european regulations without binding targets for food waste. this can have a demotivating effect. moreover, food waste should be tackled at national level. the european union does not need to intervene directly by proposing legislation.
on behalf of the ppe group. i also thank commissioner avramopoulos for his contribution this morning and for the many updates we have received over the last year and a half. i do not think there has ever been a subject on which we have had such close contact with the commission. at the same time, it is a pity that the council is not here today. many of the questions we have should be put to the council. i therefore regret very much that the council is not here today. it is two years since the council took these decisions in september. it was a time of crisis: 180,000 people were coming in every month. it was a political stunt. it took a long time. i therefore repeat my call here today for a permanent system to be established to prevent such crises in the future under the dublin regulation. i agree with the commissioner that the last few months give cause for cautious optimism. we're seeing more people actually being reassigned. but at the same time, it's a little too little, too late. in view of the reduced inflow, that figure of 160 000 is indeed no longer relevant. but we must ensure that all the candidates who are eligible actually get a place. i wonder how in the world some countries have not done anything, but how in a country like italy only eight thousand people have actually been registered in the last year and a half. something has to happen on both sides. finally, i would like to say that i have never been in favour of mandatory quotas. but we've seen in september 2015 and in the last year and a half that it doesn't work on a voluntary basis. so let's do something about it.
ngos working with human traffickers. they have each other's phone numbers. together, they provide an endless stream of illegals. the boats are waiting for each other off the libyan coast. frontex confirmed that, but of course, that doesn't matter. the cooperation with the smugglers goes so far that last week there was almost a clash between the dutch-flagged sea watch and the libyan coastguard. and that coast guard was shot. in a normal world, italy would not allow these migrants in. but the eu is obliging italy to do so. the un has said that no more than 3% of these people would ever qualify for recognition. that means that 97 percent of those hundreds of thousands are not only illegal, but also unlikely, unwanted. they should be sent back, but they're not. so here's what needs to happen. first, no redistribution of these migrants. after all, that's rewarding criminal behavior. secondly, illegal entry into an eu country should automatically mean exclusion from any residence permit, because then the whole route is immediately unattractive. finally, all cooperation with ngos must be stopped and, where possible, prosecutions for aiding human trafficking must be instituted. i call on the dutch government to do something about it, starting with the ship that was lost last week. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. in this case, my sympathy is with italy, which is so desperate that it is now even providing boats to the libyan coast guard in order to bring some order to this. i'm just looking at the un figures: 3% may be eligible for a refugee residence permit and the rest are not. no matter how you turn it around, the ngos are helping to bring the other 97 percent across the border. and that's rightly the target of these ngos.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it was an exercise in solidarity. solidarity with refugees, solidarity among member states. we are now two years on and not much of that 160,000 has been spent. to make matters worse, a new definition has crept in somewhere. all refugees who arrived in greece after the deal with turkey on 20 march 2016 should not be resettled. why not? - why not? who came up with that? this parliament has agreed to this system of relocation three times and that clause was not in it. the deal with turkey is a press release. the agreement not to resettle has not been put on paper anywhere and yet it is being implemented. member states are not sticking to their numbers and are now being rewarded because they have to take in a lot fewer refugees. but they're still here. they're still people who have a right to a new existence. you can change the definition, you can't take people away.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, how to make globalisation a win-win and avoid a race to the bottom is the billion euro question. in recent years, trade agreements have been hotly debated and i remain convinced that the eu should lead in promoting rules-based trade as a frame around globalisation. this frame of rules must always be based on our fundamental principles and high standards, and take off the sharp edges that globalisation can indeed exacerbate. the commission’s trade for all strategy and the globalisation paper published last week map out what this leadership should look like. we must be rule makers, not rule takers. i believe there is room for more focus on the impact of technology on jobs and inequality. as much focus as there has been on trade, we hear little about the future of work, as well as the significance of maintaining the rule of law in a hyper-connected world. here, too, the eu must be a global leader, especially as the us retracts, including when it comes to setting norms in the digital economy and digital trade. but that is only part of the picture. the eu member states should take much more responsibility for redistributing the macroeconomic benefits of access to third country markets more evenly at home, to re—school, redistribute and innovate as much as possible. why do we not see a white paper from them? indeed, let us not overlook how globalisation and interconnectedness around the world has lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty and creates mutual dependence, which contributes to greater stability. europeans benefit from globalisation. our smartphones, clothes and many different foods would not be in our homes and lives without it. let us make sure we look at the impact of globalisation and the technological revolution in a comprehensive way and avoid a race to the bottom. let us meet the challenges by finding solutions, not in isolation or protectionism, but by taking this a step forward.
i read the piece 'getting globalization on the right track' with great interest because there is indeed a tension between the winners and losers of globalization. the commission's discussion paper can therefore be seen as a turning point in my view. the benefits of free trade and globalisation are no longer the only ones being stressed. the commission is now proposing fair trade and protection against unfair competition. i believe that we must also come to enforceable social and environmental standards in the future. at the same time, we must be clear: the commission does not sit in the chair of the member states. the member states themselves have many instruments to ensure that we arrive at a fair distribution of the burdens and the pleasures of world trade. redistribution of increased wealth is through taxes, benefits and allowances. so i would say: i would like to thank the commission for starting the debate, but i would also like to call on the member states to strengthen their prosperity, because that is what needs to happen now.
mr president, colleagues, we have just listened to the address by the leader of the african union, which i think is an important event, and, on that occasion, i have a request to the leadership of this house. just a few days ago we learned that dr denis mukwege, the sakharov prize laureate, will no longer get full protection from the united nations. already last month, one of his collaborators was savagely murdered, and there are threats against his collaborators. i would like the leadership of this house, together with ms mogherini, who was here just now, to use all their connections, talk to the un, and make sure that he gets full protection for the work that he is doing.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, please allow me to start with a point of order. we started the debate 20 minutes late today, through no fault of the high representative, but i think it would actually be normal and reasonable for you as president to inform members. so that is just a kind request for the future. i would like to say to the high representative that the discussion on the eu—syria strategy is very urgent. yesterday, the us government found a crematorium next to a military prison to hide mass killings, reminding us of the limitless brutalities perpetrated by the assad regime and its allies and the immense suffering of innocent people in syria. it also painfully reminds us of our own promises when we said never again. we must focus on justice and accountability, and peace for the people in syria. i am afraid that we are not, as the eu – as you said in the last debate that we had – where we have to be with regard to syria. not at all. nobody is. at last there is a common position among member states – better late than never – with this syria strategy. indeed we must demand a much stronger role towards a political solution that is negotiated under the leadership of the un. we must leverage our role as a major humanitarian aid donor and as an expected contributor to the immense task of reconstruction to persuade those who kill and destroy to end this dead-end street, to stop sieges, detention, starvation as a war crime, to save the people, and also to make sure that our own interest is better safeguarded. besides the strategy, i would like to urge you again to do more to use the good contacts that you have developed in tehran to persuade them to end the support for the assad regime or face consequences. the same goes for those member states, such as italy, when there was an opportunity in the past, which have vetoed eu sanctions on russia for their terrible support of the bombardment of innocent civilians. i believe there has to be accountability in the broadest sense and we still need more eu leadership because, in the vacuum that we leave, others take a role that will not benefit the interests of the syrian people, nor our own. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – sir, if you had listened you would have heard that i cited the us government. it is your choice to believe it or not. but even without this latest report of the presence of crematoria, the suffering of the syrian people speaks for itself. if you do not want to believe it, history will judge you harshly.
madam high representative, you are talking about an eu strategy for syria and de-escalation zones. i always make a point of looking at the facts on the ground. what are we seeing at the moment? an escalation, an intensification of the struggle. there is no political comparison in sight. i have a few questions to ask you. have you been invited to the astana meeting? has there been any prior consultation between one of the actors there, namely the applicant country turkey, and the european union? and what about the often-understated but fatal role of the iranian revolutionary guard in syria and the shiite militias with all their atrocities, compared to the sunni atrocities of isis and al qaeda? madam high representative, you were so proud and excited about the iran deal. how do you balance the rapprochement with iran with its utterly destabilising role in the region? in israel and jordan, there is great concern about the consequences of the astana agreement and the so-called de-escalation zones. hence an escalation of the fighting toll in southern syria. and i'm not saying they're wrong. how much do israeli and jordanian security interests weigh on you, on the european union? if you look at the behaviour of the eu member states, how can we speak of an eu strategy? i find it really incomprehensible. but yes, facts don't matter here anymore, only wishful thinking, self-aggrandizement and self-glorification.
mr president, let me start by saying that we greatly appreciate the ongoing efforts of high representative mogherini to reach out to the key actors in the region with a view to resuming the political transition, post—conflict reconciliation and reconstruction of syria. while it is important to discuss the future of syria, the present does not give a lot of hope that the immense suffering of the syrian people will end very soon. therefore let me ask the high representative two questions. firstly, the meeting between president trump and president erdogan is about to start as we speak. whereas the us has decided to arm syrian kurdish forces in the upcoming offensive to take raqqa, an isis stronghold, turkey’s syria policy has become focused on the primary goal of preventing the rise of a kurdish entity in northern syria at all costs. obviously, arming the syrian kurdish forces also has an impact on the internal situation in turkey. the larger kurdish issue can no longer be ignored. how is the eu helping to develop a comprehensive policy and to push for a turkish-kurdish peace deal on all fronts? secondly, and very briefly, russia, turkey and iran recently signed a memorandum in which they also discussed de—escalation zones. could you please give me your comments on that agreement?
speaking of the situation of christians in the middle east today raises the most pressing question of whether there is still a place and a future for them in the arab world. or will the slogan of expulsion of jews and christians, which is painted on the walls of arab cities after the songs of saturday, actually be fulfilled in the 21st century? the scourge of islamist terrorism, which is afflicting christians in the middle east, is now sweeping over the european continent. the european union should clearly position itself as the protector of christians and other minorities in the middle east, if only for reasons of self-interest. this also means giving concrete support to reformist forces. education within the muslim community is very important, for, in the words of one expert on the subject, totalitarianism based on the islamic faith is the worst of all systems of government. i therefore call on the eu and its member states to do everything in their power to ensure a future for christians in the middle east. their future is closely linked to the europe of the future.
authorities in the southern russian republic of chechnya have launched a witch hunt against gay men, with more than 100 men being jailed because of their sexual orientation. once in custody, they were mistreated. according to various reports, including those of human rights watch, four people have been killed. the fact that the leader of the republic, ramzan kadirov, denies that homosexuality exists in that region is sad and at the same time very reprehensible. it is therefore important that an independent investigation into such abuses be launched as soon as possible. if kadyrov and putin do not take action or do not take enough action, it is up to the international community to increase political pressure. every man should be able to come out for who he is, and who he loves. that is at the heart of our values. it is up to us to continue to fight for it, wherever we are in the world.
rapporteur. – mr president, new technologies are rapidly changing the nature of the financial infrastructure around the globe. this presents massive opportunities for europe and it is now up to us, the policymakers, to make the right choices and create a conducive environment so that europe can benefit to the full extent. fintech is often used to refer to a specific scenario of start—ups disrupting finance with innovation. this definition is not the one used in our report because it would exclude a large number of relevant actors. instead fintech may be understood as finance enabled by new technologies covering the whole range of financial services, products and infrastructure. it also includes insuretech, the use of new technologies in insurance, and regtech, the application of new technologies for regulatory compliance. the current rise of fintech comes after the origination of a number of different technological developments within a short time span, namely artificial intelligence, cloud computing and distributed ledger technology. these provide new opportunities for disruptions like mobile payments, open banking, crowdfunding, crypto currencies and robo advice. fintech can lead to significant benefits such as cost reductions, efficiency gains, and more transparency. it can also be an effective tool for financial inclusion, opening up high—level services for those who could not afford them before. furthermore, fintech can enable cross—border financial flows and infrastructure through alternative lending and investment channels. the fintech revolution that we are currently experiencing is global. in recent years, global fintech investments have soared. the bulk of these investments was made in the united states, and asia and israel are also gearing up in this respect. the us, china and israel host more than half of the top ten largest fintech companies. if europe wants to remain competitive, rapid innovation should be the norm, not the exception. this is not only important for europe’s financial infrastructure, but also for the real economy, with consumers and businesses benefiting from improved financial services. notwithstanding all the benefits, fintech also confronts us with essential questions of a regulatory, societal nature. consumer protection and the stability of the financial system should be key concerns in this regard. together with the competitiveness of the european economy, they make for the core priorities of this report. the report does not intend to give technical solutions. however, it does intend to pose the right questions. that should be a first step in the process of creating a forward—looking european policy in the area of financial technologies. the intention of this report is not to propose specific legislative actions. we must be cautious with creating new rules because much is still unclear about future developments of financial technologies. a better point of departure is investigating where current legislation causes uncertainties or barriers and identifying where additional action is necessary. doing this purposefully requires a holistic approach, as technological developments in our digitising society call for breaking silos. fintech actors are already breaking silos themselves. they often offer products in a diverse multi-party conjunction. i have some minutes left at the end and will use the time then. i am sure that a lot of the things that i want to say will be said by my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs.
rapporteur. – mr president, i can be very brief. i would like to thank vice-president dombrovskis, the shadow rapporteur colleagues, and all the other colleagues who have shown so much interest in fintech. the main goal was to put fintech at the top of the political agenda and i think we succeeded in that. i think we have provided the commission with some building blocks for their action plan and, listening to the vice-president, i think they will take note of that. i would ask everybody who is watching this debate at home to please participate in the consultation of the commission, so that when they present the action plan all concerns can be taken on board. i would like to thank you all again and i am looking forward to working with you in the future on all the actions that will follow on from these recommendations.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0210/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1785/81 on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0406 - c4-0210/97). how many times will the elite repeat this myth? the eu's prosperity has been growing dramatically for the last decade. the high unemployment is hopeless. the debt mountain towering. there's no hope of improvement. on our eastern border, ukraine is at war thanks to eu intervention. turkey is ruled by a dictator who receives billions of dollars in support from the eu. france has been in a state of emergency since 14 november 2015. the united kingdom has drawn the right conclusion and has left. and so should the eu. let the eu dissolve itself. the british's biggest issue is mass immigration and closing national borders. when will this happen in the eu? when will the ngos that do good business with human traffickers in libya be prosecuted? when will the economic migrants be dragged back to the libyan coast? i say to juncker: close the national borders and resign.
mr president, since the brexit vote we have seen people on both sides of the channel digging in, unfortunately. the stations are being engaged. and even people you would hope would be restrained and reasonable are adding fuel to the fire. i am thinking, for example, of commission president juncker. but, mind you, brexit is going to hit a lot of people's lives hard. it's not some abstract discussion about the order of negotiation or something. for thousands of europeans, the question is: "am i going to lose my job, yes or no?" i'll give you an example. the fishing industry may be a small sector, but the consequences can be disastrous for many of the family farms and coastal communities that exist. the dutch, for example, fish 50% of their catch in british waters. but we must guarantee that access. the european union is for the people, not the people for the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need each other before, and we need each other after 2019.
madam president, i would like to focus on climate change and the role of the g7, because i think it cannot be stressed enough how important the g7 has been in history in setting the global climate change agenda. in 2009 – back then it was a g8 – it was the first time when the global players were setting the agenda for the 2°c target, which ended up in the copenhagen agreement. then, in 2015, the phase-out of fossil fuels was adopted by the g7: that was setting the agenda for the paris agreement later on in the year. that shows how crucial this g7 will be on what is going to happen with the implementation of the paris agreement. we know that the united states is trying to push back and trying to get the significance of fossil fuels back on the agenda, whereas we all know that paris requires a phase-out of fossil fuels. so we cannot give in, in any way, to what the americans are asking. we cannot slow down; investors are watching to see what will come of it. but this will also set the agenda for the g20 later on in the year. what the g7 is going to say will either make sure that paris will be implemented as agreed, or it will put the wind in the sails of conservative countries like saudi arabia and russia. so, the conclusion of the question is very simple, and i would like to have an answer on that. if we cannot get those conclusions with the united states, will we push for a g6 statement on climate?
mr. president, everywhere in the world, you have to follow the law. so the same applies to the ecb. but unfortunately the ecb is in breach of the eu treaty on at least two points. article 123 of the treaty states that the ecb may not purchase debt securities. the bank's been doing that for years. and they use a trick to do that, namely by not buying those bonds directly. in doing so, the ecb is not violating the letter of the treaty, but clearly violating its spirit. article 127 of the treaty requires the ecb to allocate resources efficiently. the ecb has now bought up eur 2 500 billion of debt securities. this has led to interest rates being so low that pension funds are in trouble, member states are not reforming and the value of the euro is at historically low levels. the ecb's policy of 'pumping free money into the economy' therefore also violates this article of the treaty. how could it be, mr president, that so many citizens are becoming more and more mistrustful of the eu? three guesses.
the euro would do many things: full employment, sustained growth, a healthy investment climate. but in reality the euro only produces discontent, instability and a flow of money from north to south. we have a negative interest rate that's making casualties amongst everyone with savings. and all this is done under the direction of the ecb. the bank is supposedly independent and non-political, but in practice it is only concerned with keeping those member states on their feet where there is a lack of political will to tackle budget deficits. however, the ecb's sole mission is price stability. the fear of deflation has completely disappeared, inflation is now approaching 2%, and core inflation is stable. the united states, meanwhile, has raised interest rates because the crisis is over. that is what brussels has said: the crisis is over. and now we're gonna know. will the ecb ever raise interest rates again? i am convinced that it will not happen again. the ecb is no longer a central bank. it has become a major money-press for the southern euro countries, at the expense of, for example, the dutch pension funds. the netherlands is therefore increasingly facing a bill. we have no choice, mr president. the netherlands must leave the euro.
mr president, every step towards a true digital single market in europe is very much welcomed. after abolishing roaming costs, supportability is another concrete step that internet users all over the union should enjoy. it is essential that in our policies we look at the public interest and at our principles, not at certain business models or niche interests. watching the content you have paid for when on holiday or studying or working abroad is a no-brainer and this is especially important when it comes to publicly funded content. now we need to go on to ngo blocking and ensure modernised and harmonised copyright fit for the 21st century, enabling access to content, not punishing audiences. we have to address this and we will be addressing this through a variety of legislative initiatives: the avms directives, platforms, copyright reform and electronic communications code in the setcom legislative proposals, just to name a few. and the risk of course, is that the different pieces of this legislative puzzle won’t fit, and that the bigger picture gets lost. i think we should all be responsible to keep the big goals in mind. at the digital single market mid-term, i therefore urge you to be more ambitious and focus on the coherence between the various initiatives at our tables. of course, we support you as members of the european parliament, members of the liberal group, to ensure the public interest is preserved in a hyper-connected world. but i think this message is more directed to the council that sometimes seeks to enjoy the fragmentation and the positions they have without looking at the common interest of a strong and well-functioning digital single market for europe.
i would like to thank mr hogan for replacing mrs bulc. i am convinced that she had to return to brussels today to discuss the so-called 'laptop ban' with our american friends, and for good reason. mr president, this is the last opportunity for the european parliament to send out some signals on the so-called mobility package before the famous date of 31 may. we used to talk about a road package, but now it's called a mobility package. we hope that this will also increase the quality. i must say that the epp group is disappointed that it is taking so long. we are already in the second half of this period and it will take a lot of effort to complete this file before the 2019 elections. the proposals contain many elements. it is not just the economic importance of the transport sector that is at stake, but also employment and a proper social policy. it is unfortunate that some colleagues have already started to spread rumours about how bad things are going to get without us knowing exactly what is going to happen. but it's also about sustainability. it's about use. it's about polluter pays. and let's not forget the training. we're gonna have a huge shortage of personnel in this sector in the next few years. how are we going to handle that in a socially responsible way? finally, i call on the member states and the council, and in particular estonia, bulgaria and austria, to bring it to a successful conclusion.
i am very much aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. we had a driver with us at the time, and he showed us a large number of photographs of the road conditions. dangerous conditions, exploitation, abuse. i'm not going to lie. and the commissioner was moved. from that moment on, i feel that we have laid the foundations for action. but we're hoping the commissioner will take action now. a few more examples. it's nice to have extra money for parking spaces, but if eastern european drivers have to pay the fees for that kind of parking spaces out of their paychecks, they won't use them. that's the experience. we'll have to look for other measures. we must, for example, strengthen the controls - i understand the commissioner is thinking about this - on enforcement, make minimum agreements and, in particular, also use new techniques. the smart tachograph, which should be mandatory. and i haven't heard that yet. the last thing we should do at this point, i think, until enforcement is in order, is further relaxation of cabotage rules. that's not gonna fix it, but better controls will.
the transport sector is doing reasonably well, but unfortunately there are still serious problems in the field of safety and social matters. in the netherlands and in europe cargo theft is increasing dramatically. it's mostly foreign gangs that strike. and then just be gone. i would like to say to the member states that road safety must be placed higher on the agenda and that safe parking places are therefore really necessary. this can be done with the help of european funding. social problems in road transport are also still extensive. there are many reports of drivers who are away from home for very long periods and occasionally have to stay overnight and are actually being exploited by their boss. it's not good for those people, but it's not good for the competition with other drivers. a better working conditions approach is therefore essential. and equal pay for equal work, because then you have fair competition. so economically, it is going well, but the eu is more than the economy. there's work to be done. the standard pavlov reaction of the european union - 'just do an agency' - is not really necessary for that.
i too look forward with interest to the european commission's plans for european road transport. the current rules certainly need to be adjusted. they may lead to different interpretations in different european countries, for example, when it comes to cabotage or driving and rest periods. as a result, they are not always easy to maintain and at times they interfere with a 'level playing field' in europe. for example, the overnighting of the driver in the cab is prohibited in france and belgium, but is permitted in other countries such as my own country, the netherlands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a very good example is the german toll system, which discriminates against foreign road users. today it has become known that the european commission has closed the infringement procedure against germany, and that while the european parliament has very explicitly, in a european resolution, firmly opposed the german toll plan. can the commission - and i would very much like an answer to that - explain why the resolution of this european parliament has not been implemented? because i think that's really very disrespectful when it comes to the traffic between the two institutions. i would also like to hear from the commission in two weeks' time how it views the german toll plan in the light of its own proposal on road charging.
mr president, i think it is not just rumours that the commission is pleading for a temporary exclusion for drivers from the posting directive when they perform cabotage. for me that is a big problem, firstly because it wants to get rid of the limits of three operations and stretch this to unlimited operations for a number of days, and secondly because under the proposal a driver could be paid lower wages than the minimum wage in the country where he is working because currently that is prohibited by the posting directive. i think that proposal is shameful. it would destabilise and undercut the domestic transport market. so, i have two questions. the first is, how will the new cabotage rules be checked? could a bulgarian driver for instance, drive around under bulgarian wages in germany for let us say five days, then leave the country to go to the netherlands for a day and then come back and do the same thing? the second question is that under the proposal there should be equal work for equal pay – or did the commission perhaps mean equal work for equal pay, but some workers are more equal than others?
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank all of the contributors to this debate. it is a very timely debate in the context of the resolution that will be brought before the house tomorrow. there is also the fact that the mobility package that has been indicated for some time by commissioner bulc will happen on 31 may. just to bring you up to date in relation to the business that commissioner bulc has been involved in over the last few hours, i can confirm that after this evening’s meeting in brussels between the european union and the united states that the european union and the united states will continue to work very closely on aviation security. there is another meeting scheduled for next week, because of the great importance and urgency of the issues, to assess risks and provide practical solutions and approaches to the proposals that were put forward, particularly by the united states, which would have a very strong impact on citizens and on businesses and on people between the european union and the united states, and indeed globally from a point of view of security. everybody is on the same side in terms of protecting our passengers, and hopefully they can reach some practical solutions in the coming weeks. just to take to speak about the rumours bit of business first which was mentioned by a few people regarding the road initiatives, i did state in my opening remarks on behalf of commissioner bulc that it is important to make clear that the rests will not be shorter and that driving time will not be longer in the proposals that would be put forward. this would compromise road safety which would not be acceptable and indeed would be completely out of tune with the commission’s policies and commission proposals. in relation to other matters, i agree with most people who recognise that transport is economical, it is environmental and social in terms of all its dimensions. it is a bit like the area of responsibility that i know best: agriculture. but in any event the commission plans, and i want to confirm this, to adopt all of the road initiatives on 31 may as part of the mobility package. i think that while some people were getting quite alarmed about possible rumours, hopefully we can put these to rest here this evening in saying that there is no need for people to be going on strike or writing to meps until such time that these road initiatives are adopted. i would not encourage speculation, but some of the speakers have mentioned a number of issues to which i will refer. on cabotage, the current rules, which are based on three operations within seven days, cannot be enforced. the commission plans to amend the current rules to make these enforceable within further opening or closing of the market for cabotage. in relation to the posting of workers, the posting directive applies to all economic sectors including transport, which means that drivers are posted when being abroad, but given the highly mobile nature of the road transport sector, there is a need for sector-specific rules for the road transport sector. the commission intends to come up with these sector-specific rules as part of their own initiatives, which will lighten the administrative burden for road hauliers but guarantee workers’ rights and respect for drivers. this does not mean excluding drivers from the social rules. in relation to rest times and rules, there are clear eu rules already on driving and rest times for drivers. for example, the daily rest time of at least 11 hours weekly, and the rest time of 45 continuous hours for the week. some argue that these rules do not provide significant or sufficient flexibility and that they do not guarantee that drivers return to home on a regular basis. the commission plans to modify the current rules to take these concerns into account. existing rules are unclear and interpreted differently across europe about sleeping in cabins. at the moment, a few member states prohibit drivers from taking the regular weekly rests in the cabin, while others allow it. this creates uncertainty for drivers and for hauliers. drivers should be allowed to take some rests in their cabins if they choose to do so, but within certain limits to cater for social rights. this would be clarified also in the legal proposals of the commission. on the environment side, the co2 emissions from transport are hugely significant in the overall emissions, and the limits that are expected of us now are rising from the paris agreement. road transport will have to play its part. we will for the first time have the tool that is necessary for this: the vecto tool to charge vehicles based on co2 emissions, which would give users the incentives to purchase and use cleaner vehicles. this will be included in the road initiatives and the eurovignette directive. i think mrs sender mentioned the phasing out of the time-based vignette, and commisioner bulc is indeed looking for ways to incentivise the use of distance-based systems. such systems better reflect the ‘user pays’ and the ‘polluter pays’ principle than the time-based one and i know she is very sympathetic to your view on this. current eu tolling systems lack interoperability, which is especially a problem for cross-border traffic. the commission plans to put the conditions in place for new service providers to provide eu-wide tolling services. besides better service to users, this will also reduce the cost of tolling and give the possibility for other ancillary services to be provided as well. with regard to what commissioner bulc has said in respect of the german road user charge for passenger cars and the inclusion of this in eu legislation, she stated clearly on 16 february during the plenary session of this parliament, that foreign drivers cannot be discriminated against. the commission decided today to close the infringement procedure initiated in june 2015 against germany regarding the introduction of a road charge for passenger cars. this decision follows the adoption last march of amending laws in germany, and the commission came to the conclusion that these laws have addressed its concerns by removing discrimination based on nationality. of course, the commission will now continue to monitor the correct implementation of this law, and the application of this law is very important. more fundamentally, we are also considering proposing rules that underpin non-discrimination of foreign vehicle owners as part of the road initiatives. this could include, for the first time, passenger cars, which are excluded so far. in relation to the establishment of a european road transport agency, which of course is the view of the majority of this house, this takes some time. i am not going to prejudge what commissioner bulc will say to you on the 31 may, but what i will say is that member states in the meantime can continue with better enforcement regulations or rules if they wish, and they do have systems in place that they can enforce better. i think perhaps in the short term this is an area that we should look at and do more at the level of regional and national governments whilst we are waiting for the implementation of this over-arching overall agency that you wish to have. so those are just a few remarks responding to some of the concerns that have been expressed during the course of this debate. i think you will see that the commissioner is very sympathetic and you seem to be going in the same general direction, pardon the pun, in relation to the proposals that are about to emerge in the mobility package. i am sure that this will go smoothly through with your help and support in due course.
mr president, i have a point of order. the commissioner has now explained the situation with the german customs duty and that the commission has therefore apparently withdrawn the infringement procedure today, but he must now give an undertaking that we will receive a letter and a good explanation of why the commission has now refrained from continuing the infringement procedure. we are entitled to do so, because we have just adopted a resolution here in parliament that we want clarity on the commission's position. so i want to hear the commissioner say: we'll get a letter with an explanation and a clarification.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). korea has still not ratified the mandatory ilo conventions. a trade surplus of eur 2.5 billion has been created, which is detrimental to the economic development of korea. the trade agreement also leads to water pollution, environmental pollution and increased co2 emissions. and the small and mediumsized enterprises have hardly benefited from that convention. the plan now is to solve the problems by relying on isds and tisa. i strongly object to that. un secretary-general antónio guterres strongly criticised the double standards in the field of human rights this afternoon. we must take this criticism as an invitation to give top priority to human rights, but also to trade union rights, environmental protection, food security and a fairer distribution of wealth. instead of working on treaties like tisa, the european union can put its energy much better into the international convention on transnational corporations and human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is now four years since the sustainability compact was launched and we have to face the fact that bangladeshi labour conditions are still quite bad and in some cases, for instance on trade union rights, are even deteriorating. fortunately, the commission recognises this as well, and the letter sent to the ambassador of bangladesh in brussels by dg empl, dg devco and dg trade gave the country notice that it had until 18 may to make sufficient, substantial and meaningful progress, together with a sound and time-limited strategy on several stated labour law shortcomings. failure to do so would result in an official dsp investigation. it is 18 may tomorrow, and it has come to my – and your – attention that up to now the bangladeshi government has repealed the epz laws, but has made no other substantial moves whatsoever. we are of course some hours ahead of 18 may, but i would like to ask the commission: what will happen after tomorrow when no further results follow? are you going to repeat the suggestions in the commission’s letter sent two months ago?
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that with these two reports we are trying to strike the right balance, a balance between what banks can do - loans, guarantees, banking business - and what we want to do in cohesion - socioeconomic, territorial cohesion, cohesion in regions in europe and in europe as a whole. and then it can't just be that you're working exclusively on loans, things that you have to pay back. in the whole social realm there are legions of projects that you just have to get off the ground. there's no market mechanism behind that that'll hold it for a while. we are getting that clarity today, because every now and then i read in the communication from the commission or from the eib: "banking business solves everything". no, that's not gonna happen. so, this is a good balance here. second point: it's very difficult to work with public private, all kinds of revolving funds instead of subsidy instruments, and we need that technical assistance. i also think that the commission should also set the same quality standards with member states wishing to use new instruments and should make much stricter agreements for seven years. that's a nice way to start the new period. after all, some things are going well. let the stars shine. let's see where it can. and let us not, as it were, talk each other into the pit with bad examples, reports from the court of auditors. let the stars shine. and i can tell you this: there is an initiative by nine meps who are proposing an action. you have put forward an action programme on communication which must be taken up jointly by the member states, the regions and the cities. let's do this together.
author. – mr president, ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world and the people suffer from drought and other dire challenges that leave millions hungry and dependent on aid. it is important that the eu cooperate to help people and save lives, but it would be a grave mistake only to look at the challenges of people in ethiopia through the lens of ‘managing migration’ and not to address the dire human rights violations which risk being overshadowed. counter—terrorism laws are being abused, critics are being silenced and farmland has been expropriated. hundreds of people were killed last month, according to ethiopia’s human rights commission itself. however, human rights organisations and ngos claim that even more people were killed in demonstrations. today we call on the government of ethiopia to respect the rights to freedom of expression, including the press freedom of critics, to lift the remaining elements of the state of emergency, and especially to give access to aid organisations for all areas and all people who are in need of assistance. it is important that political prisoners, journalists and human rights defenders be freed from detention and for the ethiopian government to adhere to its own commitments made under the african charter, in the context of the cotonou agreement, towards democracy and respecting human rights.
author. just a week ago, a remarkable opinion piece on south sudan was published in my country, the netherlands, because this piece was titled: "despair and hope in south sudan". what a contradiction! despair, human despair among the people of south sudan is entirely conceivable. our joint resolution names the horrors of war to which south sudanese have been subjected for years and days. however, in this almost hopeless situation, is there any hope left in and for south sudan? yes, you did! well-thought-out local initiatives are now bearing fruit - let us not forget that - and giving hope. i quote: if a girl can go to school and that happens in south sudan , not be married off and that happens , and be treated with more respect, that's a big win for her, now and later. it gives her hope for her own future and hope for her own country, south sudan. i sincerely hope that, with european support, many more signs of such hope will be realized in the torn, parched, starving south sudan with our help.
on behalf of the ppe group the baby's born. it's been a long time, it's obviously been a difficult delivery, but the child is here now. i congratulate the commission on this achievement. it's late. we are under enormous time pressure, but we will try to complete the package during this parliamentary term. the epp group will study the proposals in the coming weeks. first of all, i want to say this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but this must not be at the expense of the social aspects. the minimum wage and cabotage will be major political issues in our discussion. in particular, the transition from cabotage operations to cabotage days will be a major challenge. commissioner šefčovič has already said: president trump's withdrawal from the climate agreement doesn't mean we're not going to continue to be sustainable. we are also keeping a close eye on the new european toll system. we are not going to tax citizens if we do not have to, but one system for all of europe seems to me to be a good thing. in short, we are positive critics, but we must work hard.
the commission noted that extensive consultations with interested parties had taken place. - that's right. - what? i did the same thing today with a few drivers and asked them what they thought of the proposals. the first response i got was, we're just gonna lose, and then we're gonna drive for nothing. this is the view of a selfemployed driver who is not employed and who is used to working in increasingly poor conditions in road transport. as for the checks, the driver said: i'm getting discouraged with these plans. this is a free pass to further sabotage the place. the meshes are getting bigger and bigger. i think that's true, that those reactions are justified. if we liberalize cabotage, it will not get any better. what we would like to see from the commission is the use of the smart tachograph and good controls. it is indeed good to make agreements on this, but do not take a risk-based approach, assuming that companies that have done well in the past will continue to do well, because the industry is under too much pressure at the moment. so on behalf of the drivers, i say: we have to rethink and start over with these proposals.
for the enf group today the dutch press is reporting that the eu wants to gain more control. that's obviously a panic reaction to recent events. today we read that the united states is withdrawing from the climate agreement. the climate agreement was the only success the eu had in recent years. the united kingdom is also rushing to get out, while hungary and poland are going their own way and are not bothered by the eu's rule-making, and rightly so. in practice, this grip will be mainly a grip on the dutch taxpayer's wallet. because this eu is looking to get a grip on the hundreds of billions in dutch pension funds, on the rest of dutch tax money and on dutch legislation. i therefore beg you, mr president, to stop this hopelessly failed project.
the debate is called 'combating anti-semitism'. which begs a personal question: what do i and what do you do against the manifestations of the great evil of jew-hatred? this question is all the more pressing today because anti-semitism has been 'normal' within the borders of the european union for years. how do i know that? by being open-minded and attentive to our society. through the media, through studies, but above all through personal contacts with the victims of anti-semitism. for years i have been noticing in strasbourg and here in brussels the normality of anti-semitism. the stories of the everyday anti-semitism against members of the jewish community in our midst call for a clear answer from all of us. are we forming a living wall around them or are we accepting the normality of jew-hatred, especially the current form of jew-hatred against the state of israel, here too? don't ever let this debate testify against us.
on behalf of the s&d group, our group supports in principle the granting of sap+ to sri lanka, which has made a remarkable recovery after a decade of terrible civil war. the steps taken to bring peace and harmony deserve our support. the people deserve a chance at prosperity and happiness. but there are still loose ends and unresolved issues, such as terrorism legislation or the power of the military. we also keep hearing from the un rapporteur on human rights that the situation is far from being completely in order. that's why my position is: we give sri lanka the benefit of the doubt. but i am counting on the commission to do everything possible, in terms of evaluation and enforcement, to ensure that all those other loose ends are still in place. i am glad that the commissioner has said that he will do so. let's use the sap+ mechanism as a root and branch not only for sri lanka but also for other sap+ countries, like the philippines, to make sure they stick to their commitments. so yes, sri lanka is rewarding after a long road of suffering. but no, do not give the government of the country a free hand to further delay much-needed reforms. there is a dutch saying: i'm not going to let you delay. and if we do, we will lose market access, and we do not want that to happen to the country. thank you, sir. (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. it's obvious to me. we have taken the decision to grant gsp+ status to sri lanka, although not all 27 criteria have been met. but if we take ourselves seriously, we also have to make sure that a country that gets these trade advantages takes all the other steps. we must therefore also point out that the legislation on this point still needs to be changed in practice. by granting trade preferences, we give the country and the government the right incentive to continue.
the human rights situation in sri lanka has improved a great deal on paper. but not in practice. i was there at the beginning of april and i've heard many stories that prove it. workers are working far too long. they don't get a living wage. they are intimidated if they want to join a union or if they want to strike. trade unions are not allowed to participate in collective bargaining and are not allowed access to workers and workplaces. that is a flagrant violation of the ilo conventions. sri lanka has had sap+ status before and has shown that the benefits do not come naturally to the whole population. the conventions to which the country is a signatory must be respected, and the european commission can play a positive role in this respect. i would like commissioner malmström to commit to working with sri lanka to draw up a concrete roadmap for the actual implementation of the gsp+ conditions. there is already a roadmap from the sri lankan trade unions to introduce trade union rights and during my visit the minister of development promised that 50% of the benefits of sap+ should go to the workers. you have my letter on that subject. the foreplay is already done. would you please pick up the glove, mrs. malmström? (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for your question. i am, of course, in favour of these people getting jobs. the trade unions are also in favour of this. but sri lanka is a country where trade unions have little say and where foreign investors are particularly numerous. they are particularly interested in sri lanka because of the very low wages and the enormously high workload. the foreign investors in particular are the ones who benefit most, not the country itself. i know this is the system we work in, but sap+ is designed to help people in developing countries get ahead. that is why i want a level playing field where everyone meets the minimum standards and human and labour rights are respected. i insist on it.
for the enf group the european union insists endlessly on the apparent right of the whole world to settle here. but at the same time, the immigrant does not have to become culturally or morally attached to his new country and is then allowed to bring his whole family with him. president, we are no longer allowed to protect our borders and we are now unable even to protect our own children from the daily violence of islam, which we are even now importing. in the meantime, however, money must be returned to an eu fundamental rights agency which, since its inception, has been more concerned with perpetrator profiling and islamophobia than with the victims of islam. the jihadist who struck in manchester had the right to reside and the right to practice his islamic religion, whatever he did. but the children, his scattered victims, had no right to safety. the cowardice and the turning away of our political elite is incomprehensible. mr president, what did we do to deserve this?
president. - the world around us is changing more and more rapidly. it's hard to keep up. the use of the internet alone is outstripping anything that's been predicted so far. there are already five billion mobile phones for seven billion people. and with the rise of machine-to-machine communication, we're going to shoot up to 50 billion interconnected devices. we're going from a megabit society to a gigabit society. shang bing, the chairman of china mobile, put it nicely: connectivity is like oxygen, we can't live without it. it was only 25 years ago that 2g technology was introduced, allowing us to text on our mobile phones in addition to making calls. with 3g, we got photos, with 4g we got videos, and now we're growing to 5g with virtual reality. actually, up to 4g, it was mostly about connecting people, whereas 5g is going to connect things, the internet of things. we're going to have an industry of smart devices and advanced self-healing networks that provide all the information and products we want 24 hours a day. extremely high volumes of transactions are processed and data streams analysed. this digital revolution is upending all kinds of business models around the world. there are many opportunities to do things better, faster and cheaper. if we want to continue to play our part in the global economy, we need to ensure that we are ready for the 5g society and create the right conditions for entrepreneurs to be able to start their businesses. we need to ensure good digital infrastructure and innovation-friendly regulation while providing the right safeguards for individual freedom and privacy. we need to seize the opportunities that 5g offers. for all those extra gigabits, i will keep fighting like a gigabitch. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. satellite technology can be of immense help, especially in rural areas. in a country as big as india, they're going to be providing all the connectivity with satellites only. so we need to be able to serve the countryside in that way, too.
for the greens/efa group when only a handful of owners own all the media in a country, media diversity diminishes, and journalists will be more careful in their criticism of that owner, especially if such an owner is a high-ranking politician. whoever pays is in charge. whose bread one eats, whose word one speaks. after all, journalists also need to be provided with food. just to avoid that kind of automation, you have laws, rules and agreements. i understand that the czech parliament has launched an investigation into the resigned deputy prime minister babiš and the use of his own media company to influence the media. however, this is not the first time we have bowed to the media. now we are talking about a specific czech debate where politicians are flying each other's flag. i have had this debate before, for example in 2009 on italy. what we need to look for is european legislation that guarantees that we have diverse media and that media is not owned by one or two owners. there have been proposals to do so, but the epp, for example, has never been in favour of it. i think that this parliament should refer this matter back to the european commission. where is the directive on pluralistic media so that next time we do not have to have this debate about another country without going one step further? plural media is the foundation of our democracy. if we see that happening, we should offer a systematic solution and not be caught off guard in the run-up to the elections.
the committee on regional development has also adopted a report on the implementation of the community's regional policy. the horizon 2020 programme is so successful because it supports cutting-edge research and high-quality innovation. i am therefore pleased that the committee on regional development has embraced excellence as the starting point for a future framework programme. cohesion policy and horizon 2020 programmes can complement each other. this includes further strengthening the synergies between horizon 2020 and the other programmes. in addition, a sound research and innovation strategy for smart specialisation should be central: the commission has also proposed a ris3 to build ecosystems at regional level. horizon 2020 is a remarkable success, but unfortunately, due to lack of funding, many promising projects die a quiet death. in my report i therefore call for a budget of eur 100 billion for the next programme. i would be delighted if the european parliament would even increase this commitment to 120 billion euros. this will enable europe to become a world leader in research and science.
we are discussing today the building blocks for a post-2020 cohesion policy. a cohesion policy 2.0. but let us keep the good things of the present policy, such as the ex ante conditionality and the thematic concentration. similarly, all regions in europe should continue to be eligible for structural and investment funds beyond 2020. they are putting the european strategy for growth and sustainability into practice. whether that strategy is called europe 2020 or, in the future, perhaps europe 2030, brexit may mean that cohesion policy will have to do so with fewer resources after 2020. this means that we must aim even more strongly for results in cohesion policy. therefore, a strong link should be established with necessary structural reforms in the lagging countries and regions, with the follow-up of country-specific recommendations, with the care for good economic governance by establishing a balanced link between cohesion policy and the european semester, with the maintenance of macroeconomic conditionality and with respect for the commitments of the stability and growth pact. this is necessary for the alde group if we are to make the euros we invest in cohesion policy pay off. we also see the further development of cohesion policy beyond 2020 as an opportunity. a chance to bring a stronger urban dimension to the table. a chance to go further on the path of simplifying the funds. an opportunity to give interreg more power so that cohesion policy remains the investment policy for cohesion in europe with smart, sustainable and inclusive growth beyond 2020.
i should like to speak today about the waste of cohesion funds, but the current situation has caught up with me. a few days ago, it was already in the lease of the pharmaceutical office. the eu's goons were found to have signed a 30-year lease with no option of cancellation in the meantime. and then, of course, not just any neighborhood, it was canary wharf. costs to the taxpayer: the amount of the loan is eur 350 million. and today , another beautiful one: the paul-henri spaak building in brussels, as you know, is on the verge of collapse after 24 years and the cost of the new building: the amount of the loan is eur 340 million. who's going to pay? the taxpayer. if the eu is not even able to put up a decent office building, with its nose on top of it, how in the world is it able to run 27 eu countries? then there is the olaf, the european anti-fraud office, which detected fraud amounting to eur 631 million in 2015. it is clear that the eu's waste of money is not limited to the cohesion funds. i hope we can all get this over with as soon as possible and get back to doing something useful.
the speaker speaks frisian.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, finally we have an improvement. i have to say that already 10 years ago, when we did the first deal, we warned that a labelling system that goes from a+ to a++++ does not really help consumers understand what is energy efficiency and what is not. but, unfortunately, as happens in europe sometimes, you need a compromise, you need to see that something is not working well, and then, finally, 10 years later we can improve the system, and that is good. we have a clearer system now, we do not have the pluses anymore. we have a common database so that we can really check the improvements; so that we know, for sure, that not all the appliances later on will only have ‘a’, meaning there is no real choice for the consumer. but still, and there you see europe again, we still move slowly sometimes, on boilers and heaters, because now the argument is: well, they just had to adjust to a label and that is why they need until 2030 before they can re-adjust their label. really? so now we think that industry needs 15 years to adjust to a label that works for consumers? that is really the lobby of the right. it is not in the interest of the consumers. it is in the interest of the industry, mainly the german industry, in this case. a pretty sad part of this deal, but in the end we are improving. it is a step forward, but please, let us not always fall for the industry’s argument because if we listen to them we will only have labels in 2050.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr gerbrandy and express my regret that he cannot be here today for personal reasons. i very much regret this because he really put a lot of effort into this file and it is a pity that he cannot be here. our thoughts are certainly with him. secondly, i would like to say that it is a bit strange that tomorrow we are going to discuss trump withdrawing from the paris agreement and today we are going to discuss our own actions. i can tell you that the greens tried to link those two discussions. a strange idea, is it not: that we link criticism of trump together with what we ourselves are doing within the eu? but the big parties, especially the christian democrats, did not want to link them and we know why: because it is much easier to criticise trump, for free, while at the same time knowing that in our own actions we are not doing enough to implement the paris agreement at all. but of course we are happy to have that debate on another day. that is really my main criticism, too, in this parliament. when you criticise trump tomorrow, remind yourselves at the same time of what we are doing ourselves. first of all – and we really know all this – the current target on the table that the eu is willing to take of minus 40% by 2030 is not enough for the implementation of the paris agreement. stop saying that the eu is implementing the paris agreement. we are not on track. secondly, if you look at the two pieces of legislation on the table, we are watering it down. we are creating loopholes – loopholes in the legislation – so that this minus 40% is not even really minus 40%. that is not at all good. the commission’s proposal had too many loopholes. we improved the commission’s proposal. unfortunately there are a couple of amendments on the table again – in order to get the christian democrats on board – to go back to the size of the commission’s loophole, so we are going backwards again, watering the proposal down again, but okay, that is what the christian democrats wanted and i hope that they will acknowledge this tomorrow when they criticise trump. but it is an improvement compared to the commission’s proposal and the big fight will be with the member states, because they are also criticising trump but at the same time watering down the proposal even further. so please, ladies and gentlemen, let us vote for this and then we will have our proposal on the table. but when we are doing the negotiations, think every time that you criticise trump that you are only credible in criticising him if you deliver at home.
the paris climate conference, ladies and gentlemen, has recognised the importance of the agricultural sector to our food supply. the agricultural and horticultural sector is still too often marginalized, even though it has a unique characteristic. agriculture is one of the few sectors that can also extract greenhouse gases from the air and convert them into organic matter in the soil. a win-win situation, because it also improves the soil quality of our agricultural land. it is therefore right that captured greenhouse gases should be included in climate targets. it is now up to the member states to come up with a model where the farmer and the gardener are actually rewarded for the capture of greenhouse gases. this could be done, for example, by a carbon trading system or by giving more room for manoeuvre. in addition, dutch agriculture and horticulture are already at the forefront of innovations that lead to an ever-lower greenhouse gas emissions per kilogram of food. unfortunately, european legislation is blocking innovation to make surplus animal manure into fertiliser substitutes. it is estimated that this will reduce the consumption of fertilisers by 15%, and thus also the emission of greenhouse gases. so the agricultural sector is not the problem, but part of the solution. however, flexibility in legislation and regulation is needed to allow farmers and gardeners to continue to innovate.
fixing the roof, of course, is better done when the sun is shining. i think most people would agree with this. it is therefore logical and right that the european commission should re-ignite the debate on the much-needed deepening and strengthening of the eurozone with the reflection paper. but everything stands or falls on a sound foundation, and according to the epp that is first of all the stability and growth pact - you stick to the rules you agree with each other - and the trinity of structural reforms, investment and sound public finances. if we are to take steps towards the completion of the eurozone, we must first of all work to restore confidence, and we must do this by taking concrete measures. yes, also by a european deposit insurance system, but a system based on responsibilities where they belong: in the member states and in europe. it is not that you can shift your responsibility to the european level and then say as a member state: you're on your own. the only way we can hopefully start such a system in 2019, because it is needed, is by finding a way to share that responsibility and not make it an excuse, not shifting responsibility to europe. in other words, concrete steps to restore confidence instead of a huge leap forward with extra budgets that nobody knows how to pay, ministers that nobody knows what they should be doing. work on the concrete, then you work on trust.
the same mistake is often made in the european union. when a problem is difficult, the big leap forward is made. the commission is now taking a major step forward, instead of setting out clear exit criteria for the euro. unfortunately, there is no thought given to how to solve the existing problems. what are these problems? france and a number of southern member states are not reforming the labour market, they are not reforming financial and economic relations as the netherlands and germany have already done. the result is that debt is stagnating and unemployment is rising. what's to be done? the instruments of the stability and growth pact must be used and perhaps tightened up a bit. we shouldn't have any debts to pay. countries must reform and reduce their debts themselves. there is no need for such a big step forward with a total emu.
the commission's contribution comes at an excellent time. after the elections, the franco-german axis can be revived and there will be a new debate on the euro. it is high time, because the euro is not working properly. the euro should bring countries together, not separate them. it should ensure stability and, above all, full employment. but the european instruments for the european currency that are needed for this are lacking. a mutual guarantee fund, which the european parliament voted in favour of in february, can ensure that public spending is put in the right place at the right time. a european guarantee for savings can prevent banks from overturning countries. and democratic accountability needs to be improved. why a shadowy eurogroup and not a eurozone parliament? in short, it is not too late to make the euro work. it is not too late to put an end to the ostrich policy. it's time to make choices.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, if i have understood the commissioner well, then everything is fine, everything has been done properly and we can just continue. that is more or less the summary of his 15 minute speech. that, however, is not really paying attention to the huge scientific debate that has been ongoing on glyphosate from the 1980s onwards, broader than only carcinogenicity – it is broader than that – but secondly and more importantly, it is ignoring the fact that the monsanto papers show that monsanto was unduly influencing studies that were being used also, later on, by the european food safety authority (efsa). that is a concern and the problem is that efsa is saying that they used more studies, one that for example the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) did not use, but do not have access to it. so we do not know exactly which studies have been used by efsa to come to those conclusions. it is lack of transparency, it is lack of trust in these organisations, and we see in the united states that there is undue influence from monsanto. we want a good investigation by the commission on this issue, otherwise we will have to do it ourselves.
ladies and gentlemen, when authorizing plant protection products, the european food safety authority and the national authorities ensure that all the evidence is taken into account and that everyone is heard. these institutions are set up to make an independent and judicious assessment of the risks of such means. very important, because i think that science should be the guiding principle here and not our political views. a recently released exchange of letters casts doubt on the credibility of a number of studies funded by monsanto. these studies were used in the evaluation of the safety of glyphosate. like my colleagues, i am very interested in knowing how reliable these studies are and what the consequences of this are for the risk assessment of glyphosate. we must always monitor the decision-making process critically and improve where necessary. but that does not mean that we should abandon our faith in science. because the alternative, a political welles-neites, undermines the facts and leads to unrest.
as early as 2015, the world health organization concluded that glyphosate is a probable carcinogen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. the studies on which the first one is based are partly from monsanto, the producer of glyphosate. the other one's research results were actually co-authored by monsanto. of course, we can ask ourselves how monsanto could have manipulated years of research into its own products. but more importantly, why is the plan to extend the approval of glyphosate for ten years still on the table? if you no longer rely on rigged and unpublished research, then you have no reason to continue to expose the environment, humans and animals to glyphosate. glyphosate has become the symbol of what is wrong with europe: multinationals over the environment and money over health. and you, commissioner, have six months to use your common sense. i also believe that the european agricultural sector must be reduced.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the suffering of people in yemen is unbearable. i had hoped never again to see images of children dying of malnutrition and cholera, especially not in 2017. so much of this war and starvation is man-made, yet women and children suffer disproportionately. the violence that has broken out has devastating consequences and will not likely lead to a clear outcome. instead, everything must be done to find a negotiated solution, not only in the interest of the yemeni people, but also to avoid a spillover into an already fragile and explosive region and to avoid a breeding ground for more violent extremism. it is high time – and this is a real appeal to the european external action service (eeas) and the member states – that the eu develops a common position vis-à-vis yemen, and at least that member states stop exporting weapons to saudi arabia, which, together with the coalition, continues to indiscriminately bomb civilians and block the ports of hodeidah, which in turn exacerbates the humanitarian situation. of course, the iranian side must also stop fighting a proxy war in yemen. last year, this house called for an arms embargo to saudi arabia because of its role in yemen. it is a very important signal that we must repeat, and at least the call of last year is still very valid if we look at the incredible and unnecessary suffering of millions and millions of people. i think the eu must do more, develop a shared position and step up its efforts to end this disgusting war and the humanitarian suffering in yemen.
the european commissioner rightly pointed out that in the chaos of the war in yemen, al-qaeda and isis are expanding and expanding. and given the geographical location of yemen and the long arm of these terrorist organizations, european security interests are also directly involved. one point i actually missed with the european commissioner was that russia is taking an increasingly important place on the battlefield. russia is smelling its chance, is broker of peace for all parties, even prints the currency, the currency of the nominal yemeni government. in other words, what are the prospects for a settlement of the conflict if russia also comes in? i am extremely sceptical, and i also call on the european union to pay attention to this role of russia, also there, because it only leads - look at syria - to more destabilisation.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, blocking websites, shutting down the internet and tracking and tracing human rights defenders via surveillance software is intensifying. while hopes were high that democracy could go viral because of the open internet and new technologies, instead it seems that technology amplifies relations of power. dictators are using sophisticated technologies to repress, while individuals are joining forces to make their voices heard. and the key question for us is how to make sure that the european union stands with people who are facing repression, and how we can further facilitate the enjoyment of universal human rights – online and offline. it is more important than ever that we, in europe, take the lead in advancing and defending the right to freedom of expression, access to information and the right to privacy. we can do this by coming to the defence of journalists or bloggers who are intimidated and silenced, by ensuring encryption is used widely to secure information, and by pushing back at the highest political level when websites are blocked or speech is silenced. the 2014 guidelines on freedom of expression online and offline were adopted after a clear push and demand from this house. it was a welcome step, but three years is like a century in light of the rapid technological developments that we see. if we want to continue to do what is needed, we have to stay up—to—date and up—to—speed. we must build on best practices and make key improvements, based on the lessons learned of the use of these guidelines. i have one specific question to the commissioner: can he reflect on what is the status of the no-disconnect strategy? it was part of the plan to stop the blocking of websites and the silencing of bloggers, and it has been a bit silent. so it would be good to get an update on that as well.
in writing. as kosovo is just out of elections, i would like to draw attention to the following problem: the possible closure of the international business college of mitrovica. on july 31st, the international business college of mitrovica is threatened with closure. for half of the 174 pupils this is a major problem. some 80 students come from minority groups and the continuity of their education is at stake. they cannot be transferred to other universities, because nowhere else is teaching in english or serbian. donor funding was available until the beginning of this year. kosovo had invested €1.5 million and countries such as sweden, denmark, switzerland, the united kingdom and the netherlands as well as the eu have collectively donated €13.5 million. it is a pity that the success of this multi-ethnic school is being undermined by a lack of sense of urgency on the part of the kosovo authorities. i therefore ask the european commission to exert political pressure on the prime minister and the minister of education to draw up an emergency funding request for this school as soon as possible and thereby create a solution for the continuity of this school.
the european council will discuss eu defence, brexit and migration, among other issues, on 22 june. let me be clear right now. on eu defence: we do not want an eu army, but cooperation between sovereign states within nato. that's what got us through the cold war. there is no need for a bureaucratically wasteful eu army. on the brexit: britain is leaving the eu because the eu is a failed project that is developing into a second soviet union. so i don't want a billion-dollar bill for england. the eu must stop and make way for economic cooperation between sovereign states. on migration: the eu has shown itself incapable of stopping ngos that have already taken tens of thousands of migrants from libya by chartered boats instead of dragging them back. i hereby express my support for hungary and the other visegrad countries in their fight against islamization. let the council follow suit.
madam president, i would like to thank everyone for these heart-breaking speeches on climate change. it is really great to hear how everyone is involved in it and concerned and, well, let us see, in half an hour you can vote and you will add loopholes to our own climate legislation watering down our targets for 2030. there might be some inconsistency with some of you guys, but i am sure you are going to work on that. i also want to thank the council for being here because you have been listening to the marshall islands. i know that you are even worse on the effort-sharing regulation. you are playing for more loopholes all over the place. i really hope when the environment council is meeting next week, you still have in your mind the speech by the president of the marshall islands, and act accordingly. i think that is important. and to the commission i would say: one of the clear demands we got from the marshall islands is to come now, before 2018, with your 2050 road map. are you going to do that? or is this going to be for the next commission, postponing, postponing? i shall be silent now because i am going to listen to mr helmer and, if i understand the guardian correctly, you are going to step down in july; so if this is your final speech i am happy to listen to it.
author. – mr president, there is a wind of change sweeping through the european union. 2016 and 2017 will go down in the history books as the years of unprecedented turmoil and renewal, with a steep rise of nationalist forces, but no breakthrough. instead, we see the first signs of a european spring, not summer yet, but after years marked by tensions and discontent there is a breeze of optimism, expectation and hope in the air. who did not feel the excitement when president macron met with trump and putin and represented a self-confident and proud europe? and colleagues, who did not feel proud when we voted today on our commitment to the paris climate agreement, making europe the world leader where others withdraw? values are the key to the refoundation of the european union. election campaigns in recent years focused not just on traditional material issues of jobs and social security, but very much on values, culture and identity. the world order is changing at a breath-taking speed, and people are worried and anxious about loss of identity and loss of community. nationalist parties have responded by sowing distrust, hatred and fear, or by promising to go back to an imaginary past. we reject that, but we have to recognise that our own response to the clear questions on values, identity and culture have not been adequate. the european union is a deeply political union, but most politicians are wary of explaining this to their voters. they prefer to present the european union as a technocratic entity that can be summed up in terms of economic benefits or costs. if people are worried about loss of identity, abolishing roaming charges will not reassure them. if they are afraid their culture is threatened, cutting red tape will not allay their fears. if they are unsure about the shared values of our community, they will not find comfort in trade agreements, but we should not leave the monopoly of defining our shared values and our identity to the nationalists. in these current times of great uncertainty, insecurity and societal turbulence, it is not easy to defend our shared values; but we have not defined our shared values for fair-weather conditions only. it is when conditions are rough that our convictions are put to test. the european union is not only an economic powerhouse, but it has great moral authority in the world. we can be proud. our values have inspired many around the world, and many people dream of living in the kind of free, fair, stable and democratic society we have in europe, so much so that others see our values as a threat, something they seek to destroy. populist parties worldwide have an agenda based on nationalism, xenophobia, homophobia and sexism. they agitate against secularism and parliamentary democracy and above all they reject pluralism. they claim there is one people, one voice, one truth only, but clearly recent elections have proved them wrong. europeans will not be reduced to a one-dimensional caricature. if we wish to make europe strong we must therefore promote the opposite and embrace european integration, diversity, equality, pluralism. and against that backdrop, i think the tweet last week by manfred weber, who unfortunately is not here, was a bit misguided when he wrote that: ‘europe’s identity is above all christian. anyone who denies this is denying reality’. but, dear colleague weber, the reality is that the true soul of europe lies in its diversity and the freedom to choose what to believe, and who you are. democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are not just ideals: they are essential for the functioning of the european union in all policy areas. social justice is a precondition for a stable climate for investment and development. respect for fundamental rights is vital for common migration policies and police cooperation, and the rule of law is absolutely essential for the internal market and investor confidence. in short, values are the key to a strong european union, and that is why the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe puts values first.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind. the european union must not allow poland to appoint judges who are critical of the eu, hungary must not stop its invasion and slovakia must not choose security over migration. the european commission sees censorship as a good way to combat populism and to influence public opinion. and brussels seems more positive about murderous turkey than about britain now that the latter wants out of the eu. this can't go on. we need a new basis for european cooperation. this cooperation can only be successful if the member states regain their veto power and if the national parliaments are able to take back control. the great advantage is that the european parliament can then be dissolved. that saves half a billion in new construction costs for a palace in brussels.
united in diversity. that is the motto of the european union. so the core of that motto is that you take each other into account, that you respect each other, that you don't caricature each other, that you don't put each other in a certain frame. unfortunately, i see that the representatives of the alde group, the group which has requested this debate, do so on a regular basis. for example, when there is criticism from society of pushing for more eu, that criticism is often dismissed as populism, without any serious consideration of whether that criticism is also unfair. the failure to take that criticism seriously was part of the brexit. i think it's good and necessary that we think together about what should be different and what should be better, certainly. but i ask the alde group in particular to show understanding and respect for the views of others.
mr president, we are having a debate and there is not a lack of opinions and even accusations, but there is a lack of facts. i have been part of the pana delegation to malta; we had discussions, but it was very difficult for us also by the nature of this mission to uncover this fact. i think the european parliament, before entering this debate should get the facts, and take itself seriously by gathering facts and not just have opinions and accusations – that is not enough. let me talk about one topic. this is the opportunity where we do have facts and a lot of evidence – the evidence for tax competition. we now see for example that small firms pay 30% more taxes than large corporations: that is a fact. malta has, to put it in a neutral way, a very different tax system, with the ultimate tax burden of about 5% in many cases. there is nothing wrong with being different and having a different tax system, but i would implore the prime minister to join the investigation into loopholes that are unintended and join international cooperation to close these loopholes. i expect that from malta. i would also implore the prime minister, especially as he is from the social democratic family, that he join efforts to introduce the common consolidated corporate tax base, because that is the european response for making the tax system efficient and fair and i also count on malta on this. as i said, there is nothing wrong with being different, but i hope the maltese prime minister will join with the european parliament and fight for fair and efficient taxation in europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is great to see that everyone now agrees that europe has an investment gap and that we need an investment programme to work on that. that is very good. i am also happy that the commission changed to a more realistic tone when we discussed the juncker investment plan. a year ago it seemed that the commission was selling it as a success, no matter what. it is good to see that there are still some issues that we need to solve, because if you look at the additionality, is efsi really supporting those projects that otherwise would not have happened? if you look at the geographical imbalance, is it really going to those regions where there is an investment gap? if you look at the scoreboard use, is it really that those projects that score well on sustainability and jobs get the higher scores? it has all been very unclear until now. that is why we are now also working on improvement to the legislation: it is great to have a nice initiative report where the text is good, but in the end it is the legislation that counts, and we are in the trialogues. we are not there yet, so let us change it: efsi is important, but needs to deliver better.
madam president, i think that the efsi and the whole juncker plan came at the right moment and that we are seeing good results. money is needed in the real economy. let me make three remarks. first, we should have a better guarantee and a better look at the additionality. financing roads in france, germany or the netherlands is not high risk, so what are we doing? second, on the geographical balance: of course, it cannot be europe that is standing on one leg in the more developed country; the winner takes all. there we have to support these countries so they have a better capacity to take it up, quality to make projects and investment banks, as my colleague has said. third, as the coordinator of the regional committee in the ppe group, i think we should move much more to combining the funds from the regional funds, the structural investment funds, and the efsi. this would not mean blending, putting them all together in a big blender, but having these shared management funds in the member states to give them – this is already possible in the regulations – the possibility of having a higher risk and more loans and guarantees in the real economy. we now have the omnibus. we come with this simplification and i see a big future for the efsi fund. it is a compliment to the rapporteurs and also to the commission.
the day is drawing to a close, but we have a tough bit of work to do at the moment. i thank the commissioner for his reply - that is how i would describe it - because i understand that we are getting more information. i'm a little confused, though. on the one hand, he says, we are not finished, but we have already started proceedings against the netherlands, belgium and france. then what was the basis for the attack? the results of the 2013 survey, which we don't know, are also confidential. i understand that to a certain extent, although it is very difficult for parliament to be able to assess what is happening. and, mr. chairman, i understand that state aid to ports is a sensitive issue. we've actually been doing this for decades now: what's allowed and what's not? we in the epp group are pleased that the general exception has been extended, and that there is less of a risk of state aid, but i do very much need the overall picture and therefore i repeat my question: why have three procedures already been initiated, when the investigation as a whole is not yet completed? thank you very much.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. it happened to investigative journalist afgan mukhtarli, who was arrested on false pretenses two weeks ago and is now facing a lengthy politically motivated trial in azerbaijan. the situation fits into a series of worrying developments, with the government in baku silencing critics, from fabricated crimes to repressive legislation and bureaucratic rules for civil society organizations. the result? today, more than 100 political prisoners are held without any prospect of a fair trial. but the repression has entered a new phase. now, it seems, political refugees in neighbouring countries are no longer safe either. mukhtarli said his captors spoke georgian. this raises serious questions about the possible involvement of the georgian security services. that is why this must be investigated to the very bottom. it is causing hundreds of azerbaijanis living in exile in georgia to suddenly worry about their safety. let me say the last words in english so that we can have the debate here in parliament. there is this proposal to postpone, for the first time, a vote on a matter of urgency. i think the word " urgency " says it all: we are talking here about an individual human rights case, and this parliament should not postpone a vote on such a severe situation, because it will set a precedent which we should not want. i hope today we can go to a vote on a very good resolution which has been negotiated. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 1628)
blue-card answer. – i’m sorry, but i think this is a very crazy question: we don’t make judgments about who does the request. we make judgments on the case itself. all the groups were in favour of having this resolution because of its seriousness. all the groups negotiated a request. this is not a political colour question, and i find your question, to be honest, actually very disgraceful.
i have a specific question to put to the commission. i have received extensive documentation on intolerance in the pakistani education system: hate speech against minorities and especially against christians. my question is: you know that? and most of all: if european funds are going to the pakistani education system, what would it mean if the public education system, and especially the islamic madrassas, were actually discriminating against christians and actually putting them away? i would like to make the eu's influence clear here through the commission. i'd like a response.
- a writer. commissioner, an hour ago i called a christian theologian in jakarta, and during that long conversation i noticed how deeply christians in indonesia have been affected, affected by the blasphemy case and also the eventual conviction of the former governor of jakarta ahok. so, one urgent question: is there still freedom of religion in indonesia? i hope that the european commission will continue to appeal to the indonesian government for freedom of religion and especially for the fact that christians, let alone indonesian citizens who are subject to double discrimination, christians and chinese, are currently being silenced by fanatical muslims, who also threaten moderate muslims. fortunately, i have to say that my contacts show that there are indeed moderate muslims who are taking up the cause of christians. an example for europe.
author. – mr president, indonesia is a longstanding and important partner of the eu, and this is a partnership that is based on the shared values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it is against this background that we share our concerns here today. concerns about what seems to be a growing intolerance against religious, ethnic and sexual minorities in indonesia; concerns about the rising number of people that are prosecuted and imprisoned under the blasphemy laws; concerns and outrage about the situation in aceh where two young men were publicly lashed for the simple reason that they were in love with each other. we cannot stress enough the need to protect all human rights, and particularly those of minorities. therefore, this resolution of the european parliament is not only criticism, it is not only concerns; it is also an open invitation to the indonesian authorities and to our colleagues in the indonesian parliament to strengthen our relations and to discuss these issues with each other in a very open and frank manner.
i would ask you to add a debate on norwegian whaling to the agenda, concluding with a resolution in september. whales are among the most impressive of all animal species, but they are also among the most endangered. that is why commercial whaling has been banned since 1986. norway is one of the few countries that ignores this ban and since 1993 norway has killed almost 12 000 whales. that's more than japan and iceland combined! this year, norway has increased the quota to almost 1,000 whales. my fellow citizens, we cannot let this happen. there is a whale hunt going on right now all over norway, and i ask for your support to protect these animals. because as the european parliament, are we watching the last whales being hunted down and threatened with extinction, or are we doing the utmost in our power to prevent this? i'll take the last one, and i hope you will, too.
this is a bit of a dilemma. a debate without a resolution does not say much in this case. norway knows that there is an international ban and it is time for this parliament to speak out clearly against international commercial whaling, including by norway. that is why a debate alone is a good signal, but it is not enough, absolutely not!
no, we prefer to keep it as it is.
the increase in hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis c is a matter of grave concern to us. fortunately, the horror of these diseases has largely disappeared with the efforts of the innovative medical world. nevertheless, there are still serious health risks to our citizens. many hiv patients still die needlessly after being infected with resistant bacteria. resistant strains of tb are increasing in number and spreading, while detection is inadequate. last week, commissioner andriukaitis presented the eu action plan against antimicrobial resistance. the fight against antibiotic resistance must now be translated into policy more quickly within the european union. there must be no political holy houses! in third countries, tb is a major problem and the use of antibiotics is unfortunately irresponsible. since 1993, the netherlands has been examining asylum seekers for tuberculosis. the exemplary approach to tb through preventive screening of every incoming migrant has produced good results in the netherlands. so tuberculosis is also rare in the netherlands. in addition, in times of migration, this targeted preventive screening has enabled doctors and the government to prevent outbreaks in asylum seekers' centres and to treat many vulnerable migrants in a timely manner. x-rays have been used to screen migrants from mainly african countries for tb and have saved the lives of many migrants. somalia, eritrea and ethiopia are high-risk areas for tb. a targeted european approach is needed in this age of mass migration. antibiotic resistance and the increase in tuberculosis may lead to the reappearance of the horror of curing tb patients in sanatoriums or even in a tent. we as the eu must never allow that. that's why we have to deal with it. (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. i assume that the current situation in the netherlands is perfectly well understood. you've got to clearly track how asylum seekers are coming in. you also need to make sure the paperwork is there. you have to look at it. but today we are talking about public health and that is why i have put forward the approach i have just mentioned.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we note the absence of the council, which is not innocent. this morning i heard – i was not present myself – that president juncker was very upset at the low turnout of meps in this room and called us ridiculous. well, i would like to say that the absence of the council is fairly ridiculous because we are three eu institutions, the council representing the member states and the member states are responsible for a very important part of the implementation of the things that we are talking about today. we need the council on board and yet the council doesn’t seem to think that they need europe or the commission or parliament. it is very symbolic that the council is absent because we all know that there is a big problem in the implementation and the enforcement of european policies. despite our occasional differences, the commission and parliament are usually singing from the same hymn sheet. we do our homework, we adopt policies and then the problems start because the member states fail to implement. if i may give you one blatant example it is of course the famous eu passenger name record directive which had to be adopted in a big rush. so where are we now with the implementation? absolutely nowhere. and this is typical for most of the files. when it comes to implementation and enforcement i would also like to look at the commission because – yes – we are talking about important topics today that we would like the commission to take initiatives on, but we would also like the commission to be a bit more assertive when it comes to enforcing eu law against the member states. we have been talking here a lot about issues relating to fundamental rights and the rule of law, but i am also thinking about something like dieselgate. why does it have to be the americans who take action, who find out? why isn’t it our own authorities? if we agree that it is the national authorities that implement eu policies we have to be absolutely sure that that is what they are doing: implementing, applying, enforcing the policies. because if they fail to do that then they should not have that power; then it should be at eu level. another request to the commission: we note that when it comes to files relating to, for example, fighting terrorism, there is a systematic absence of impact assessments. can we please make sure that from now on, every proposal relating to the fight against terrorism and crime will be accompanied by an impact assessment? finally to my colleague ms rodrigues, who referred to us as conservative right-wing forces. i think that is very funny because when it is about other topics i am usually accused of being left-wing, so whatever. i am probably in the middle. i would say, you know, conservative forces are right-wing and left-wing these days. on your topic of a social europe, the liberals are very much for a free europe but also for a fair europe. and that means fair opportunities for everybody, and confusion is often in social europe equates a socialist europe, well we see it differently. we believe in opportunities, in opening our borders and giving young people access to the labour market, rather than replacing outdated social security systems at national level with one at the european level. let’s finally give young people an opportunity. people have been excluded from the labour market – yes, dear colleague – excluded from the labour market. let’s finally give them the same chances as those who are already in a job. i hope that we can do this together with the commission.
the uk's departure leaves a gap of some €10 billion in the eu budget each year. the question, of course, is: who's gonna pay for that? not the member states. because then brexit would be a punishment for the net payers who are left behind. nor will the european union, which will then be taxing. taxation is a matter for countries, for states, and the european union is not a state. so there 's only one solution: there must be cuts! and that includes the following. let us really spend the structural funds on the poorer regions of europe. a country like the netherlands can finance its own cycle paths, we do not have to do that. so let us deal with the structural funds. that's one. two , you 're not . the european banking authority and the european medicines agency are currently located in england. let them come to strasbourg. parliament can leave strasbourg, which saves hundreds of millions a year. three , please . the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. fourth . the economic and social committee may be dissolved. five , please . at least half of all agencies could disappear. brexit is an opportunity: so saving skillfully! (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. as regards social cohesion, i made a clear point in my speech. we must now focus the structural funds much more effectively on the regions in europe which really need the money, because they are lagging behind many other parts of europe. so that means that we can concentrate the structural funds on certain regions that really need it. and a country like the netherlands, i told you: in my country, for example, bicycle paths are part-financed by the european union. that's really not necessary. we can pay for it ourselves. so more dedicated structural funds, and that means more than just social cohesion. that means cutting back.
i have read the commission's paper through, and it is a long hallelujah story. the commission considers the european union a success. and now the commission wants more money in a new way. but in practice the european union is not delivering at all. not in the area of employment or economic growth, and certainly not in the area of security. but the european union is spending a lot: the european union has been a great help to the people of europe, and we have been a great help to the people of europe. mr president, it's not about how the money is coming in. the point is that the eu budget is money thrown away. and, mr president, what is free and what works is free trade! we need more of that. and no, those are not the trade agreements that the european commission is trying to conclude. what is not working and what is costing a lot of money is the european union itself. we need to cut down on that. much, much, much less!
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much for the good presentation today and the ideas behind it. in fact, when you talk about added value, we can immediately go to the centre: it means to keep europe together. it does not mean the parts of europe that are the winners. the rest are followers and what do we do with the rest of the rest? give it to the chinese? sell it? this is the key point when we talk about cohesion. as you said, there are new priorities, but beyond that we can be more creative in the way we deliver our funds and our economic, social and territorial cohesion. here we might come up with a framework with rules under which funds can work better directly for citizens and for the beneficiaries. let me say one thing about the speed that we need: if you can come forward with your mff at the beginning of next year, we will, as parliament, finalise the work on the regulations before the elections. this is in fact what we have to do: added value in the work we deliver here and you in the commission.
i am pleased to be able to make my first speech in the european parliament today, and i thank you for it. the subject i want to talk about is the 2018 budget. i've been working on this file and i've lost the scales from my eyes. i had the impression that the eu was a money-spinning institution, but in practice it is much worse. i will give you a few examples. invalid leases, like the one at the european medicines agency in london. cost of the project: the commission has already the house of european history in brussels. cost of the project: only 55 million euros. and still struggling to get to one meeting place for the european parliament. absurd to move every month, inefficient, costly and not explaining to the taxpayer. and plans for an absurd new building for the european parliament in brussels, costing hundreds of millions of euros. if it is up to me and my party, we will unveil the whole circus of the european union and parliament today rather than tomorrow. but until we do, we will remain vigilant and will monitor all proposed expenditure. thank you for your time and attention.
i too would like to say a few words about the election of saudi arabia to the un commission on the status of women. it seems like a misplaced joke, but unfortunately this election actually took place. this election shows once again that arab countries have much in common with the un and the football association fifa. i'll give you a few examples: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world, and that the european union is able to play its full role in the world. no sensible person wants to sit on such a committee in a country which oppresses minorities, imposes the death penalty and executes in medieval fashion, forces women in the country to cover their entire body and even forbids them to drive a car! we regard this as a sign of weakness for the un and for the member states which voted in favour of this ridiculous proposal.
the cuban commission for human rights and national reconciliation reported 478 politically motivated and arbitrary arrests in january, 482 in february, 432 in march, 475 in april and 373 in may. significantly, there was no public protest from the eu against these restrictions on freedom. on the basis of these facts, a european condemnation of the castro regime would have been appropriate, necessary and justified. the eu's silence legitimises the restriction of freedom of cuban dissidents. that is not the purpose of the political dialogue between brussels and havana! the dominant influence of the cuban military on the country's economy is also of great importance. i would like to hear how the eu deals with this obvious fact in its relations with cuba. finally, i ask for your support for my amendment calling for the cuban churches to be given full freedom to provide social and economic aid to all suffering citizens and to receive aid from europe and elsewhere in the world. who can object to this humanitarian handshake? nor do you, madam rapporteur, as you did in committee. mind your own business!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the estonian presidency: you are very welcome in this house. thank you, mr timmermans, for your speech, and i was very glad to hear you used the word ‘challenge’, and not ‘crisis’, when you were speaking of migration because we talk a lot about ‘the migration crisis’, whereas what is really going on here is that there is a political and a moral crisis. the estonian presidency is absolutely right in saying that migration management is a global responsibility, and therefore it is to be welcomed that the german presidency wants to put this firmly on the agenda of the g20, making it a global issue. at the same time, it is also a european responsibility and, as the commissioner set out very clearly, member states are not living up to their responsibility. they are abandoning italy and they are abandoning greece. i am reminded of a statement made by the dutch prime minister at the time of a previous mass influx of migrants into italy, when a journalist asked the prime minister ‘isn’t it sad for italy that, because of its geographical location, it has to take in all the refugees?’, and the prime minister said ‘well, tough luck for italy.’ that has been the attitude of europe, and it is a shame. we are the most prosperous continent in the world. if we cannot manage this migration influx, then who can? we have to start assuming our responsibility. i am glad to see that the commission has taken action: it has put forward a kind of action plan for italy. but, first of all, the focus is now very much on what ngos are doing, and i think we should stop the blame game. you can never blame ngos for saving people’s lives. (applause)secondly, i wonder why we are not using the legal instruments at our disposal, such as the temporary protection mechanism. we have it: why is it not being used? it can be adopted in the council by a qualified majority vote. thirdly, when will we stop using european money to fund dictators and failed regimes? how much more money are we going to send to libya to let people die in miserable circumstances, not only in the mediterranean, but also in ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the group of the european people's party what is the eu doing at the g20? the council and the commission are incompetent. they are not even able to tackle and solve the major problems in the european union. the unemployment rate is still dramatic, banks are still on the verge of collapse. the debt mountain is still higher than ever, migrants are still pouring into the eu by the thousands every day and attacks are still taking place almost every week. the solutions for this time are coming from the patriots. the commission should follow the example of the visegrad countries rather than condemn them. mr juncker should follow the example of his party colleague mr orban and close the borders. chain up the boats of criminal ngos, lock up the crew and confiscate the funds of these ngos. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. boats have to be towed back to libya. migrants are now safer in libya than englishmen in england, frenchmen in france, or germans in germany. you are a totally incompetent and irresponsible manager and i say to mr juncker and his assistant, mr timmermans: get out of the car! let the patriots take over. we'll take responsibility for that. we have the solutions and we are taking effective action. (the speaker answers a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
rapporteur. – madam president, adalet is the turkish word for justice. as we speak, thousands of people are marching from ankara to istanbul in protest at the large-scale purges that started after the failed coup attempt one year ago. the numbers are swelling every day, and more than one million people are expected to attend a peaceful march for justice when they arrive in istanbul this coming sunday. in a deeply polarised country, people from all walks of life are uniting to call for the restoration of the rule of law in their country. that is not only historic, it is also a hopeful sign that many in turkey do not accept the authoritarian drift in their country. these people are fighting for their democratic rights, and we in the european parliament stand side by side with all those in turkey who believe in the same european values as us. at least half of the population voted against the new constitutional package in the referendum. turkish students are protesting against the government-appointed rectors in their universities. and teachers fired under government decrees, nuriye gülmen and semih özakça, began a hunger strike in protest. as their strike neared the 80-day mark and their health faded, they were arrested and they have been in custody ever since. this shows how little space is left nowadays for freedom of speech in turkey. but all of these examples also show how millions of people in turkey are not giving up hope. one year after the failed military takeover, turkish democracy is under great pressure. a heavy price is being paid by the turkish people. the parliament and the constitutional court are bypassed as the government rules by emergency decrees. more than 150 000 people have lost their jobs, more than 50 000 people have been jailed, and all without having an opportunity to defend themselves. the continually deteriorating situation is south-east turkey deserves special attention. not only is the leader of the pro-kurdish people’s democratic party (hdp), selahattin demirtaș, imprisoned, so are 12 of his colleagues and 87 mayors from that region. especially in the areas where curfews were imposed, excessive force has been used by security personnel, and collective punishment has been applied to the inhabitants. however, this in no way justifies any of the killings conducted by the kurdistan workers party (pkk), an organisation which has been on the eu’s terror list since 2002, and last week’s murder of two local justice and development party (akp) politicians is another sad example of how this conflict affects many people’s lives. the eu believes that there can only be a political solution to the kurdish question. when looking at the widespread crackdown on all dissent in turkey, silence is the worst strategy for the eu to take in reaction. not only does it leave millions of turks out in the cold, it also fuels euroscepticism in our own countries and sends the wrong message to the other eu candidate countries in the western balkans. let us take a look at some examples from the past weeks. why was there no eu statement when journalists from the sozcu newspaper were targeted? why was there no eu reaction when the head of amnesty international’s turkish branch was arrested? and why was there no condemnation when a 14th member of the turkish parliament, republican people’s party (chp) mp enis berberoglu, was jailed and sentenced to 25 years? we understand that turkey is an important country and we have many joint strategic interests. we are not pleading for a stop to all dialogue and cooperation with ankara, but what we are asking the commission and the eu leaders to do is simply to stand up for our own values. by looking away, we are seriously undermining our own credibility. we support the commission’s proposal to start negotiations on the modernisation of the current customs union with turkey. this would not only be beneficial to both sides in economic terms, but it is perhaps also the only leverage the eu still has in making the government of turkey commit to european standards. on visa liberalisation, we encourage the turkish government to comply with the last five remaining benchmarks. finally, while the political groups in this house have very different views on eu-turkey relations, i would like to thank especially my colleague rapporteurs from the other groups in making sure that this parliament speaks with one, clear and loud voice in condemning the turkish government’s serious decline in democratic standards, while continuing to support the turkish population, millions of whom would like to continue to see the eu as an anchor for reforms in their country. and for all those millions of people in turkey it is also important that we continue to uphold our own values when dealing with a candidate country. to those in turkey following this debate, we would like to say that your struggle in difficult times does not go by unnoticed. together with you, we hope that adalet – justice – will return to turkey soon.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, but the commission has not yet adopted the report. i am delighted to hear from turkish citizens with an 'open mind' inside and outside their own borders. these brave turks deserve the full support of europe. two concrete examples. every week i look forward to the "istanbul letter" in the frankfurter allgemeine by editor bülent mumay. high-level intelligence and analysis! independent reporting on turkey is certainly of great value to the eu now, and we should support it. a second example. last friday, turkish columnist guzde berderoglu wrote about the mor gabriel monastery (founded in 397!): "mother gabriel is our history". she continues: until we understand that this is our common history, our decline will continue. these courageous words of turkish pen directly address the current expropriation of dozens of churches, monasteries and properties of the aramean community around the city of mardin. commissioner, you too must be strong in your support for a christian presence and a christian cultural heritage in turkey, also because of our values and our history! i would like to reserve my last words for two fellow countrymen, rapporteur kati piri and former colleague joost lagendijk. kati, you combine expertise with an open field of vision, we need, tribute! joost, i wish you a speedy reunion with your turkish wife, thanks in part to our european support and solidarity.
madam president, for the past years the progress report has become a reflection of regress of the rule of law and of democracy. this regress weighs on the people of turkey as well as on our relationship. our group, and this parliament, have been consistent. we supported accession as we believed it would serve the rights and the freedoms of the people in turkey. we urged the freezing of negotiations last year after the massive response to the failed coup attempt, however despicable that attempt was. yes, perpetrators should be held to account, but with fair trial and due process. the package of constitutional amendments, if implemented unchanged, would de facto put an end to the accession process and negotiations. still, we do not want to slam the door in the faces of the population of turkey and we insist that any form of a future relation between the eu and turkey cannot be transactional only, focused on trade security, asylum and migration, but will have to be deeply rooted in the rule of law and respect for human rights.
thank you, madam president, and thank you also to mrs kati piri for the report. it has been said by many, but i think that the fact that suspension of negotiations is no longer taboo for a very large majority of this house is a great step forward. the situation in turkey is not positive and is going in the wrong direction in many areas. however, the report does put some conditions and mitzvahs before we can possibly move on to that suspension and i personally think that there are already reasons to look at such a suspension. i will give you one example because i have limited time. and that's the way turkey has treated its minorities, like arameans, for a long time. before the genocide of 1915 - and i use the word very deliberately - there were one million aramean christians in the region, 40 years ago there were 70,000 in eastern turkey. and now only 3,000: 20 000 in istanbul, but 3 000 in the east, de facto in a village of seven or eight. and it is in that region that turkey recently confiscated 50 churches. i'm closing the meeting, madam president. but in doing so, turkey appears to be pursuing the strategy of systematically bullying christians. i would ask the commission to at least make an explicit reference to this.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am grateful to all the colleagues who have contributed to this debate. as i said at the start of the debate, i would like especially to give a warm thank you to the shadow rapporteurs who were also here during the whole debate, because we worked in the third year consecutively towards a very constructive text. i would also especially like to thank colleagues from the extreme right for being here in the debate, because their presence and their contempt for this report shows clearly that the agreement reached by the other groups is not based on islamophobia. it is not based on any hate towards the turkish population and i am proud that you will vote against this report as i absolutely do not share your racist positions. allow me to welcome here a former colleague, joost lagendijk, who is sitting here with us. for many years, he chaired the turkish joint parliamentary committee. after having lived in turkey for the past nine years, he has not been allowed to return to the country where he has been living. we hope he can go back soon and join his wife, nevin, in istanbul. when it comes to the presidency of the council, thank you for also participating in this debate. we hope that curtailing migration is not the new priority of the european union with eu candidate countries. please allow me to draw your attention to the fact that we also call on the eu member states in the report to start the resettlement of the most vulnerable refugees from turkey as we agreed. i very much hope under your presidency we will see more progress on that. finally, commissioner hahn, we know you are on your way to the airport. we wish you a good stay in turkey. we look forward to continuing our cooperation and hope that the eu will be more confident in the coming months to stand up for its own values while maintaining an open, constructive dialogue with turkey. as a final remark, because many colleagues raised the issue, we know the talks on cyprus are ongoing and we all hope that there will be a viable long-lasting settlement reached.
soil, water, air and climate call for global and european efforts. but the paris climate agreement also calls for food production not to be jeopardized by climate policy, and that is a fact. i would therefore like to point out that the agricultural sector is already making a major contribution to sustainable production. by maintaining the landscape, farmers contribute not only to sustainable food security, but also to the environment and nature. a lot has been said about sustainable agriculture. are we sufficiently aware that most of european agriculture, livestock farming and horticulture is already producing sustainably? we're not forgetting that? through innovation and increasing environmental awareness, dutch farmers and gardeners are saving co2 and delivering top quality products. the european union should do more to reward such good examples. let us beware of shifting our food production to third countries with less environmental legislation. only a level playing field with effective measures and without unnecessary red tape can stimulate sustainable agriculture. european and dutch farmers and gardeners have been feeding the world's population for years in a sustainable and resource-efficient way with meat, dairy, cereals, fruit and vegetables. our european farmers and gardeners are therefore true champions of the global climate, rainforests and biodiversity. and they want to contribute to the climate agreement and they're working hard on it. but it has to be feasible, affordable and doable. and a little positive thinking about this would be very valuable.
i understand the emotions of all the colleagues who have spoken here today. i was here last saturday when we said goodbye to helmut kohl. it is right here, and rightly so, in strasbourg, as a symbol of the 'never again war'. and yet we have to talk about that double chair. the commission and the council have just shown that they do not have the courage to do so. we must talk about it, not only because it costs 200 million euros a year, but also because it undermines the legitimacy of our common union. if you can't handle this, how are we supposed to believe you and how are you supposed to be credible when it comes to the real, serious problems? yes, this parliament debates with emotion, and no, we do not always agree, but we do have the courage to put it on the agenda. this is in contrast to many leaders in the council who complain at home but now hide in silence. to those leaders i say: put your money where your mouth is. either that, you complain at home and you do something about it. if you're not willing to do something about it, i want the council and i want my own leaders at home to not hear about it for the next five years.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr omarjee, for the great work he has done. there is a great distance between the outermost regions and the european continent. but since i have visited some of these regions myself, the distance between my feelings has narrowed. i have a special affection for these regions and their people. the outermost regions are an integral part of the european union, but their specific geographical location poses particular challenges to their development. it is therefore only logical that we should adapt european policy where necessary to their special situation. and then there is the much-discussed article 349 which is about to be scrapped. and that article 349 lays the legal basis for tailoring european policy. the european commission can certainly be a little more innovative in this respect. but it should be noted that specific measures for the outermost regions must be balanced and that perhaps we are sometimes a little too enthusiastic in the report in calling for additional support for banana producers, cane sugar producers and milk producers in the azores. but i must say that i agree with the overall thrust of the report. let us also look at the opportunities for the development of the outermost regions, whether it be in the field of renewable energy generation, the enhancement of unique biodiversity, tourism or the blue economy. let us exploit these opportunities with the help of cohesion policy. the outermost regions can then become what i would call 'islands of excellence'. sustainably connected to the rest of europe.
madam president, it is exactly as mr ruas has already said, that, when we immediately debated this tragedy in the committee on regional affairs, we also said we have to be efficient in our support. let me touch on a couple of things the commissioner also said about it. it is very important that we have recently changed the regulations so that we can use the regional funds, the regional development fund, and this means that for portugal, if you look into the figures, we have some eur 500 million available – if the member state asks for it, and there are 12 weeks for documented requests to come in, also for the solidarity fund that we revised in 2014 and that is now under revision in the omnibus, to make it even better, to take these two possibilities together to have a vast support for people [now] and also for the future. this is combining help on one hand, for emergencies as the commissioner said, and prevention for the future. there can be a combination of those tools. it is not just this debate that we say is important, but also the question for the commissioner to act immediately when the request of the member state comes, because we are ready to help and to show our solidarity in concrete matters. so it is good that we are here, and also that we stand there in solidarity for other situations which we hope do not occur during the summer.
i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. i'll give you that right now. i had hoped that the court would have been closer to the opinion of advocate general sharpston and left more powers to the member states. but the court has held that arbitration and indirect investment are a national competence. the question now is: will the commission do its utmost to exclude national and regional parliaments as far as possible or will it try to pursue a trade policy with the widest possible support? i'm afraid it's the first. the commission is showing this in the agreement with japan which it intends to announce tomorrow. there is never an opportunity to debate in public what our trade agreements should look like. the commission has all the information, but it talks mainly with business and much less with ngos and citizens. we in the european parliament have a small part of the information, but we are not allowed to talk about it. and the public has no information at all and only hears what has happened afterwards or through leaks from organisations like greenpeace what is decided. that's not good for democracy. europe has leaders who are increasingly detached from the citizens and the gap between you and us is widening.
it took some effort, but we have managed to discuss the norwegian whaling here in the european parliament. and that is badly needed, because norway has been leaning on the international ban on commercial whaling for over 30 years. since the ban came into force, norway has killed more than 13 000 whales and is currently hunting almost 1 000 whales, including pregnant animals. that is a great shame. endangered animals should be protected, not harpooned to extinction. since most norwegians have long stopped eating whale meat, some of the whale meat is used as animal feed for the fur industry. the remainder of the whale meat left over from norway's barbaric whaling is shipped to japan via european ports. europe is thus participating in the whale meat trade. this has got to stop! we ask the european commission to stop cooperating in the transport of illegally killed whales. mr president, this legal opinion shows that the european commission has the means to stop the transport of whale meat through european ports, including with cites documents. in the words of mr juncker, it is ridiculous that the commissioner responsible has not taken the trouble to be here today. but i have every confidence that commissioner stylianides will explain how the commission and the member states are closing european ports to whale meat as soon as possible. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. nobel prize winner, scientist, and publicist liu xiaobo, who was born in china. in these sad times of serious illness, the european parliament shares his and his wife's deepest sympathy. liu xiaobo has a powerful message for us, and i quote: tyranny is not terrifying; what's really scary is submission, silence, and even praise for tyranny. as soon as people decide to oppose it to the bitter end, even the most vicious tyranny will be short-lived. liu xiaobo argued in his 2009 lawsuit against the "psychology of hate" that blocks china's true modernization and democratization. he applied this principle personally by praising his guard liu zheng for his attitude of respect and empathy. liu xiaobo: what is it ? a great man in a great country!
author. after a debate on eritrea, another very dark chapter. in april 2015, burundi's president, president nkurunziza, sought a third term in office. and now, in july 2017, there are 400,000 people who have fled, 200,000 people who are internally displaced, 3 million people in need, two and a half million people who are not sure if they will have enough to eat tomorrow, and 700,000 people who are in need of urgent food assistance. and all because of a man who wanted to rule for four or five more years. nkurunziza is also engaged in ethnic cleansing in his army, with the whole distinction between hutu and tutsi returning and the repercussions of this on the region we can expect. the destabilisation of burundi leads to the destabilisation of the countries around it and i am worried that we are going to see a civil war that will again affect all those countries.
rapporteur. – mr president, ahead of the vote on turkey, i would like to draw your attention to what happened last night when eight human-rights defenders, including the director of amnesty international in turkey, were detained in istanbul. one german and one swedish national are also currently being detained. it is not clear where they are being held and they do not have access to their lawyers. this is the moment for this parliament to call on the turkish authorities for the immediate release of these human-rights defenders in turkey. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, what a moment to discuss this important file. as we speak, the results of climate change are hitting the caribbean with unprecedented force. the central question today is of course: how do we judge the icao decision to tackle the problem of climate change? is it the strong and decisive step of the aviation sector to freeze its emissions globally at 2020 levels and compensate for all additional emissions, or is it a cunning attempt by the aviation industry to buy more time and to accommodate unlimited growth in the future? i think it is neither of the two. my judgment is that it is a promising step forward, but at this stage, it is still limited to an intention. it is based on a resolution, and in the coming years it will be implemented on a voluntary basis. rules on the global trading registry, criteria for offsets and monitoring of emissions still have to be agreed and implemented by participating countries. it is clearly promising, but at a very early stage. a lot of work and conviction is still necessary to make it a success. political pressure will be greatly needed, and the question is whether that is by a time limit on the derogation or an indefinite limit on the derogation. i strongly support julie girling’s report on this. we very badly need a time limit on the derogation in order to make the icao process a success.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it feels a bit like groundhog day here, since we are discussing aviation and climate change again and again. for those who are not aware, back in 2008 the eu promised – with unanimous support from the council – to get aviation to fall within the scope of the emissions trading system (ets) by 2012. this is for those who say that we have to take our time, and to the commissioner who said: ‘well, let’s see how we judge the international civil aviation organisation’s (icao) progress.’ in 2012, we had already said that it would fall within the scope of the ets. then we were promised by icao that there would be a global deal in 2016. yes, that global deal is there, but we have not seen anything yet on how it will work. it is carbon-neutral growth, so that is far from being enough for implementation of paris. for those who say that aviation is not falling within the scope of the paris agreement: that is nonsense, because the paris targets are economy-wide. every sector has to work, and until now we have had discussions on many sectors that needed to deliver, aviation was always out and they are still out. what we are seeing now is that it is finally time for icao to live up to its promises, but then they really have to make sure that their so-called compensation projects are really compensation and not just fake, as the case could be. in that sense, it is about time for aviation to pay for its emissions like all the other sectors. we have given them enough time, and now we are going to do it again until the end of 2020? how long are we going to have that debate and give them a free ride?
we are discussing a sensitive but also ambitious subject tonight, especially as regards the transport sector. we have promised each other that we will reduce emissions whether or not transport is covered by cop21. we want to fulfil that ambition. but we have a difficult relationship between europe and the rest of the world. on the one hand, we are stimulating icao with the corsia approach. on the other hand, we want flights from third countries into the eu not to interfere with the eu's own rules. and, mr president, let me be clear, can the eu lead the way? i'd like that. can the eu encourage or even force icao? i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i have no better word than this german word: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. let us be ambitious, let us be clear, but also, for example, towards the gulf states, not in isolation, to ensure that europe does not suffer but continues to take a leading role.
mr president, lulucf is awfully complex, almost as complex as its abbreviation, but it is very important for all of us. almost one fifth of all global greenhouse gases come from it. the lulucf regulation is not a policy that prescribes in detail what member states should do with their forests. it does not even regulate whether a government or private company can start or stop harvesting a forest. lulucf is an accounting policy. by correctly checking the exact amount of emissions released or absorbed by forests, agricultural land and other forms of land use, we know how much emissions budget is left for other types of emissions. member states can, on the basis of the account, decide themselves what specific measures they want to take on forest and land use, or on other sectors of the economy such as transport and energy. let’s not fool ourselves by tweaking the rules though. lulucf is like managing your financial budget. it is extremely boring and complicated but crucial to avoid bankruptcy.
the fipronila affair has once again shown that something is very wrong with the way we keep our animals on a large scale in europe. in the netherlands alone, 2.5 million chickens have been gassed in recent weeks. they have become the victims of this twisted and fraud-prone system. this crisis calls for systemic change and not for technical measures and symptom control. fipronil is not only harmful to humans and chickens, but it is also fatal to bees and other insects. and yet fipronil is still allowed as a pesticide in european agriculture. the commissioner said yesterday that a ban on fipronil is impossible and would be a disaster. but, commissioner, do you really think that banning fipronil is a bigger disaster than the one we're in right now? i would therefore again urge the commissioner to propose to the ministers at the fipronil summit that fipronil be banned from european agriculture altogether in order to safeguard human and animal health for the future. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
on 9 august, mr president, i asked the commission questions on the reconstruction of all the notifications received through the food and feed alert system. the european commission should in future take on a coordinating role to ensure that all reports are sent to the appropriate authorities via the alert system. we're gonna have to work really hard on that. fipronil has been used throughout europe. - what's the point? what is the commission's view of the far-reaching public warnings issued by the netherlands food and consumer product safety authority? because they have made very clear that they have made other things very clear. the dutch food and consumer product safety authority, which has seriously damaged consumer confidence in the sector, with many financial consequences for the sector itself. was this necessary if other member states did not have such extremely strict standards? and then the cleaning of stables and the disposal of manure: in the netherlands, chicken manure must be burned at very low concentrations. there is insufficient combustion capacity for this, with high costs. why is manure not allowed to be directly disposed of and how is this actually done in other countries? i'd like to know. many poultry farmers have been affected by this crisis through no fault of their own. how do we deal with that? and that 's what this is all about . how do we deal with the family businesses in this sad situation and how do we offer them a helping hand? and it's, i look at anja hazekamp who's gone, not just the big intensive companies. in particular, many small organic farms have been affected. and that is why, mr president, i am also asking you to provide financial support for these farmers in this difficult transitional situation, because we are not paying enough attention to that. i would also ask you, as you did last night, to consult commissioners hogan and malmström for good solutions. i wish you much strength. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. we have done research on this at wageningen university and it shows that particularly large companies also take good care of their livestock. i am therefore speaking very clearly about how we in the netherlands are on top of this and are having this discussion. that is why i said to mrs hazekamp that she speaks of intensive livestock farming and says that it is the result of intensive livestock farming. that's not true at all. the organic sector has been particularly affected by this. we get a lot of things mixed up. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. i'm really very happy about this question. in the netherlands we are the leading poultry industry in terms of the capacity to incinerate poultry manure. now we're dealing with it because there's a slight concentration of fipronil in that manure. that is why everything must be burned, and that has to do with figures and the way we have put it together in europe. then my specific question is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. why am i asking this? because in seed and leg foods, yes, we do sometimes confuse apples and pears here, fipronil is also used in small concentrations. hence the question. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. i agree with you completely. that is why i immediately put the question to the commission. what is the basis for this? why did we wait so long to inform each other? especially in my country with the nvwa: when our farm is moving pigs abroad to slaughterhouses, an nvwa man comes to visit. then the first nvwa doctor comes in and is checked again by another vet. people are so over it. then i think it's crazy in this situation that it's taken so long.
entrepreneurs have been hit hard emotionally and financially by the fipronil crisis, whether they are cage, shrimp, free-range or organic farms. i feel so sorry for them. so my question is this: poultry holdings whose eggs, meat or manure have fipronil values above the european mrls shall not be granted an export licence. however, for manure there is no known european mrl. this means in practice an absolute zero tolerance for fipronil in manure. it is very difficult for companies to comply with them. poultry farms do not receive an export licence for their eggs, animals and meat free of fipronil because traces of fipronil are found in manure. manure that is burned. the impact on poultry farms with, for example, mother animals is considerable. a large proportion of the hatching eggs are exported from these farms. without an export licence, these companies risk being without sales for a long time and thus going bankrupt. can the european commission ensure that eggs are allowed to be exported if they are free of fipronil despite traces of fipronil in the manure?
in my country, the netherlands, a large number of poultry farmers, between 200 and 250, have been severely affected by the fipronil crisis. the cost is enormous: destruction of eggs, cleaning of the stables, draining of manure. companies are threatened with collapse. i have two questions for you, commissioner. first of all, a question about the manure: can the commission clarify the maximum residue levels for manure? member states seem to be dealing with this in different ways. at the moment, poultry farmers in my country have to burn manure, even if it does not contain fipronil. this is keeping businesses unnecessarily closed, with all the consequences of that. and then a question about the damage: member states have shown differences in their approach to compensating affected poultry farmers. what exactly is the scope, commissioner, for a member state to provide compensation under the state aid rules? i would like to see the commission clarify this.
- i'm the reporter. i will be very brief, but as we have not had a plenary debate on my report, i would like to take this opportunity to call on the commission to follow up swiftly and concretely the recommendations which were adopted almost unanimously in the committee on the internal market. entrepreneurs don't go to court too quickly, especially against a parent company. and yet there can be a lot of abuse in the franchise world. in the coming months i expect the commission to take action against possible unfair trading practices and also to examine competition policy. we must abandon the passive attitude of the commission so far.
in writing. we may be on the verge of a nuclear war with hundreds of thousands of deaths. president trump and north korean leader kim jong-un are trying to outdo each other in rhetoric, and repeated attempts by the international community to bring the countries to the negotiating table have so far failed, with diplomacy the only option. any military intervention would have catastrophic consequences. first of all for the koreans, but also for the region and possibly the whole world. it is good that the un security council adopted stricter sanctions this week. its implementation will be essential to force pyongyang to the negotiating table. the european union has an instrument to avert the threat: soft power. with an impressive record of diplomacy, it can and must act as a neutral mediator to avert a new nuclear war. because no one, really no one, benefits from an escalation.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for her personal commitment, her frankness and for having this debate with us. however, i would like to underline that external policies can only complement, contribute to, migration management, and it cannot replace proper asylum and migration policies. the member states should stop propagating this myth of fortress europe and closing the borders: migration will not stop. it is as old as the world, it is there and it will be there – but we can manage it. we can handle it if we do it together, and indeed i agree with gianni pittella. of course we cannot leave it to italy alone; we need to revise the dublin regulation. a solution for migration flows is certainly not dirty deals with shady regimes, because we are talking about making a deal with libya. i even heard the president, or i read about the statement of the president of this house, mr tajani, suggesting that we should give eur 6 billion to libya in order to solve our migration issues. i was really wondering on whose behalf he was speaking. it is certainly not the position of this house, as far as i am aware. yes, we should be investing in africa, because there is an economic case, but we should not be giving money to shady regimes in order to prevent people from leaving the country. why are we giving money to dictators? why are we giving billions to shady outfits in libya, brigade 48 or whatever it is called? and yes, it is all very fine to train the libyan coast guard in human rights, but forgive me for being a little bit cynical – i really do not think that is going to make a massive change. i think this money – which is taxpayers’ money – ends up in the pockets of militias, corrupt regimes, terrorists, rather than using that money for services for our own citizens and regulating – managing – migration. because we can do it. we are the richest continent in the world, we are the best organised, the most civilised continent in the world. if we cannot do it, then who can? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am not a sociologist or anything, but there are many, many different causes – and there always have been, throughout history –that have pushed people to move: it may be war, persecution, violence or poverty, but interestingly experts now also say that as african countries are developing, people actually have more means to become mobile. so it may actually be that it’s not just poverty pushing them out; there may also be other reasons. i’m pretty convinced that climate change, too – i mean just look at the images of the extreme conditions – is going to push people to move. so we should stop clinging to this myth of ‘fortress europe’ and start managing migration.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. of course, fewer people drowning is good news. but why is it that fewer boats are leaving libya and we know what happens to those people who don't leave, where those people are now? we can't protect people in libya. you are not in libya, and in fact the international organizations like the iom and the unhcr are not in libya either. there are no international camps in libya under protection. there are no such things. there is no shelter from international organizations. so we don't know exactly what's going on, but we do hear about abuse, about rape, about slave trade, and even about murder in detention centers. can you guarantee, mrs mogherini, that you will not be here again next year to tell us that something terrible has happened to those people in libya whom we are not letting go or whom we are letting return? so fewer people are getting on boats, but fewer people are leaving, say, a village somewhere in western gambia? do more young women and men actually stay in, say, the village of dankunku? this is in gambia, and we've been there with the human rights commission, a village where there are no jobs. are fewer young people leaving? what about your proposals to achieve that, the real fight against poverty? because that's what we'd like: that boys and girls don't have to leave dankunku or all those other villages in africa where people dream of a better life.
there are few good developments in immigration policy. the libyan coast guard is doing our job, but the so-called refugees are still coming. once processed, they're not expelled. the secondary crime is not being tackled. in the eu, it now appears possible to pose as a refugee, almost kill someone, by travelling to the next eu country and actually killing someone there. and we still seem to be singing "welcome, welcome to my country". but it is very good that this afghan can, thanks to the eu, be able to pick up his family, if any, in the future. because where would we be without such a highly educated role model? president, the refugee convention, family migration, the ngos, together with brussels's dismissive attitude, are a literally deadly cocktail. fortunately, we still have poland and hungary.
two years ago, we were talking about the same subject in this very room. it was after the summer of 2015 and i remember the feeling of disappointment in many members, including myself, about the lack of concrete action and concrete results. today i can only conclude that a great deal has happened in the last two years: strengthening controls at our external borders; the establishment of the border and coast guard; the arrangements with third countries to prevent refugees and migrants from losing their lives on a dangerous sea voyage; and even the relocation of asylum seekers, which started slowly but has gained momentum in recent months, which should make it possible to actually help all those people who are eligible to actually get a place. i hope that the recent ruling of the european court of justice will be a further step in the right direction. but we cannot sit back. the fact that fewer people are coming from africa to europe means that more people are being left behind in miserable conditions in, among other places, libya. these people deserve our protection, deserve our help, and deserve our attention. in addition, we in europe are still failing to return economic migrants who have no right to stay to their country of origin quickly and efficiently. that is why i ask the council and the commission to give it more priority, because a little phrase in the progress report on nigeria, for example, 'we are having a hard time because we cannot find a date for a second round of negotiations' is not the level of ambition i expect.
last week, we received news that the italian secret service has made a deal with the libyan smuggling mafia to stop migrants. several colleagues have already referred to this in the debate. in exchange for a few million euros, they will work with armed militias to prevent vulnerable people from boarding boats to europe. i am shocked by this news and also expect that it will be made public soon what kind of agreements have been made with whom exactly. if the reports are correct, we have reached a new low in how the eu is dealing with the challenges of migration. such solutions are not sustainable. the dependency on militias that kill and rape and are also the cause of the great instability in libya is a very short-sighted policy. whichever way you look at it, the only way to better manage migration is by creating legal routes for vulnerable refugees and by investing more in good governance and strong economies in africa, so that young people have more options to succeed in life than just venturing across the border to europe. but as long as you have nothing to lose, you're putting your life in the hands of a smuggler. so, not just quick fake solutions, but really tackling the root causes, and that takes a long breath. it is good that for the first time a number of european countries are speaking openly about legal routes. but do so in collaboration with partners in africa, and in doing so, give african youth a voice in the decision-making process. after all, it's their future as well.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, as eu—turkey relations have been put on the agenda of the next european council meeting, i believe it is good to reiterate this parliament’s position. this house has been speaking out loudly and clearly when it comes to the serious violations of fundamental rights in turkey. despite our many political differences and our diverging views on eu—turkey relations, we have been united in our condemnation of rights abuses. in july – two months ago – we called for the formal suspension of the accession talks if the constitutional amendments were implemented unchanged. the situation in turkey continues to be worrying, but there have been no developments in the last two months that would cause us to change the position we took two months ago. we also expect eu leaders to come forward with a clear and united response in october. the eu’s credibility is at stake when it comes to the accession talks with turkey. at the same time, it is important to keep making a distinction between the turkish government and the turkish population. in this respect, let me clearly state that the european parliament never called for the withdrawal of the candidate status of turkey nor for the shutting of all doors of communication. taking away the european perspective from the turkish people once and for all would be a grave mistake. however, the real question at hand is not whether turkey can or cannot one day become a member of a future european union. this is a theoretical debate. the real question at stake is: what we can do to reverse the current authoritarian trend in turkey and how can we continue to support the millions of people in turkey who believe in the same values? this is why i believe that starting negotiations on an upgraded customs union would be a first important step, although of course things need to improve first. another important tool for the eu would be to continue financial support for civil society in turkey. we must ensure that populism and xenophobia do not take over this debate. the turkish people deserve our solidarity in difficult times. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – in many ways i think the situation in cyprus has already been very visible in eu—turkey relations and in the accession talks as well. i personally very much regret that the talks collapsed before the summer, and i know that another political group – not my group – has also made a request to make sure that we also debate what happened in those talks and what would be a way forward. i believe that a united cyprus living in peace would actually not only be best for the people living on the islands but for stability in the whole region and, of course, also for eu—turkey relations.
mr president, today’s debates and the points raised are roughly the same that we have had for years. again, we talk about the lack of separation of powers, the lack of respect for the rule of law, the absence of due process and fair trial, the numerous breaches of people’s rights and fundamental freedoms, the opposition, the press, civil society and minorities. add to that a constitutional package that will lead to increased concentration of powers, more recent attacks, including of european citizens, tensions in the nato alliance, ongoing announcements of the reintroduction of the death penalty and the kinds of insults that partners do not exchange. so the question is not what is going on – it is crystal clear – but the question: is what is the eu’s answer? i think it is a good thing that this parliament has been leading and has been consistent. we want to have an honest debate and an eu that acts on the basis of principles. we encourage the council and the commission to do the same next month – make an announcement and be clear – because, as it stands, we are basing our relation on the deal on migration, which we think has failed and is not even delivering. because the re—energising of accession is going nowhere. there is no perspective on visa liberalisation, and the support for these kinds of deals is eroding further and further. so it is clear that we cannot continue like this. but we must make sure that any future arrangement is based on values.
the european union is not a single entity, but a single entity. there are now 50 000 terrorists from islamic countries in the eu. every month, a major attack occurs or is prevented at the last minute. every day, women and children are raped and people are robbed, abused and murdered by immigrants from muslim countries. there is no longer any security in the eu. this parliament itself is turning into a bunker and yet you deny the danger of islam. you pay the libyan coastguard millions of taxpayers' money because the eu coastguard is not doing its job and cannot do its job because of the political unwillingness of the juncker commission. and there are still millions of unemployed in the union and the debt problem is still not solved and the eu is still losing its share of the world market. the eu is not doing well. the united kingdom has now left the titanic, and the eastern member states which have put in place a sensible immigration stop are being scorned and driven away. but a dictatorship like turkey is being supported by billions to join. and that is the state of the union: we have failed economically, we have failed socially, we have failed in security. mr juncker - and he has fled - please stop this election propaganda and start to undo this failed project.
mr president, in the two years since the scandal broke, a lot has been done. we must realise that and recognise that. but the core of the problem still remains. despite legal obligations, eu governments have barely taken any action and that is the core of the problem. i will give a few examples. the german authorities have still not really taken action against volkswagen. they did not fine volkswagen. the recall programme is extremely weak and consumers are not at all compensated for the loss. the uk has refused so far to take action against skoda. they haven’t done anything despite all the evidence that is on the table. the netherlands has taken some very careful steps towards action, but it is very limited and careful. the commission has done a few things. it has launched infringements proceedings, for instance against italy in may, and other countries before, but a lot of countries are, well, still not really being chased after. so after what president juncker said this morning that he called upon industry to plead guilty in the dieselgate scandal, my question is: what is the commission doing against the member states further on, because, as the speakers before me said, it is far too weak at the moment. i thank the commission for its reaction to the emis inquiry committee recommendations, but i am still looking forward to their reaction on the conclusions, because we did find some contravention and maladministration. then finally the council – a nice statement here; but the real pain, also after the emis committee did its work, is in the member states. when can we expect an official reaction, as there should be in a democracy, from the member states, from the council, and when can we expect real enforcement of eu legislation? do not talk only about what has to be improved for the future, but please, take action now on the cars that are still being driven on the road.
mr president, why are we discussing this again? this is mainly about the existing cars on the roads. we know that there are policies going on to improve the type approval framework; we know that the new testing will be there (by the way, with very strange conformity factors) – we all know that. but the big question is: what are we going to do with the millions of cars driving on the street right now, polluting our streets every day? i would like to quote the commission, when madam bieńkowska still had full responsibility, on 17 july, when she said: ‘we have to remove non-compliant cars from the markets and circulation as soon as possible’. i did not hear that now. i would have hoped that we would have heard that kind of language now, in this public arena. we have to do something about the millions of cars that are not complying with european law – and that is the task of the commission. sorry, mr katainen, but if you say, ‘we heard some diesel summits in germany and austria that should be an example for other countries’: sorry, this is the worst example. what came out of that diesel summit was that maybe there might be some software updates that lower the emission results by 25% to 30%. the latest study of icct shows that euro 6 cars are emitting 4.5 more than allowed on average, so reducing by 25% to 30% is nothing. and if the commission is going to allow that, then those cars will be de facto legalised on the streets. and they will not be sold in germany; they will be sold in poland, in estonia, because there the people will still buy it and it will not be sold in germany because there the selling is going down, so they will all go to the central european regions. is that the solidarity that mr juncker was talking about this morning? the commission needs to step up to the plate, and there is one simple question: when is the commission going to come forward with guidelines? guidelines that very clearly show what needs to happen, software and hardware updates to existing cars, and that you know, and that the national authorities know, when they can be satisfied, because if you leave it to the national authorities, you will get results like the diesel summit in germany, and that is then de facto legalising non-compliant cars and polluting cars for our citizens, and that is not an example in europe, mr katainen. (applause from the verts/ale group)
it has been said several times this afternoon that president juncker mentioned the car industry in his speech this morning and if you read those sentences carefully again you will see that there are many important words there. you're not mentioned in the state of the union speech, and apparently there's a reason for that. let me be clear: the car industry is of great importance to europe. it creates many jobs and provides innovation, exports and mobility for millions of europeans. on the other hand, it's got to be cleaner and more neat. by cleaner i mean more transparent, including cartels, and cleaner on emissions and recalls. we also need to stop deceiving consumers and governments. it's just not professional. if everything has to be reduced to shareholder value, we're not gonna get there. it is a much broader objective and that is something that the professionals in the automotive industry must understand.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this interesting debate and for the comments and support which many of you have clearly expressed for this agreement. as i mentioned, the european commission has treated this file with urgency as an important building block of the capital markets union, and we are grateful that, thanks to your engagement and constructive approach on this file, it looks like we will continue to make rapid progress. with these reforms to revitalise the euveca and the eusef labels we are breaking down another barrier to a single market for capital, and we are providing more numerous and deeper sources of funding to support our high-growth and innovative businesses. this is a step towards the economy of the future and it is a step in the right direction. i would like to thank once again the european parliament rapporteur, mrs pietikaïnen, the shadow rapporteurs and mr gualtieri for their work.
member of the commission. – mr president, irma was the strongest hurricane ever recorded in the atlantic. it brought with it considerable catastrophe. so far, we know of 46 deaths. many more injured. thousands of people will have to rebuild their lives from scratch. on behalf of the european commission, i would like to express again my sincere condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims. i would also like to pay tribute to the first responders. we stand in full solidarity with all those who have suffered, for as long as it takes. let us not forget that some of the affected territories are part of our european union; others are closely associated to the union. my sympathy particularly goes out to france, the netherlands and the united kingdom. the eu is a global player in emergency response. we were fully alert and pro-active, from the very beginning of these disasters. nevertheless, this is our job; this is our moral duty. even before hurricane irma hit the caribbean islands and the united states, we were pro-active. we prepared for the worst. we mobilised all our response tools in order to help the people there. these tools are the following: first, the copernicus satellite maps programme. as a first step, the eu’s copernicus satellite mapping system was activated by france, the netherlands, the united kingdom and, of course, by the commission. numerous maps have been produced and have been helpful in assessing damage and planning emergency response actions. the second tool is funding. we have immediately mobilised emergency funding: almost eur 160 000 were rapidly mobilised for the red cross in the dominican republic, haiti, as well as in antigua and barbuda. in addition, we have released an initial amount of humanitarian assistance of eur 2 million for the most affected islands in the caribbean. this will help respond to the most pressing needs in key sectors: shelter, water, sanitation and health. further eu funding for longer-term reconstruction efforts will also be available. the third tool: experts on the ground. a team of commission humanitarian experts from different fields of expertise are on the ground now, working alongside national authorities and international partners across the region. the experts have been deployed in the dominican republic, haiti and cuba. they will also carry out assessments and support the relief efforts in antigua and barbuda, turks and caicos, st martin, anguilla and the british virgin islands, together with local authorities. unfortunately, access remains difficult on some of these islands. we are ready to adapt our response based on their needs and identified assistance gaps. fourth tool: monitoring and coordination. the european commission’s emergency response coordination centre (ercc) has been monitoring the situation around the clock. it is in constant contact with all participating states in the eu civil protection mechanism, especially france, the netherlands and the united kingdom. the eu’s actions are complementary to the member states’ own emergency responses that are currently implemented on the ground. the commission’s crisis centre also coordinates with eu delegations and all our partners in the field: governments, local authorities, international organisations and ngos. the commission’s regional humanitarian aid office in managua is fully operational and ready to coordinate any further assistance. fifth tool: civil protection mechanism activation. finally, the eu civil protection mechanism (eucpm) is on standby to coordinate the delivery of in-kind assistance if requested by any affected state. water purification, shelters, medical assistance and other vital assistance could be delivered. an eu civil protection team was also on standby for three days, in anticipation of a request for assistance. on 11 september, germany activated the mechanism, requesting consular support to assist german citizens and other eu nationals located in florida. in this context, the european commission will co-finance the transport costs of a crisis response support team. this team will be deployed to the us for one week to help eu citizens on the ground. sixth tool: help for reconstruction. the european commission is accelerating its support to affected countries and territories under ongoing development aid programmes. in this context, the eu can release immediately eur 3.6 million to the national budget of anguilla and eur 4 million to the national budget of turks & caicos. in addition, the eu has recently committed a new bilateral programme of eur 3 million to antigua & barbuda under the 11th european development fund (edf). on cuba, the same approach is followed by the commission under the development cooperation instrument (dci). in the medium term, the commission is also ready to examine how on-going and future development support programmes under the european development fund can be redirected to address the reconstruction efforts as well as mobilising additional funds from the non-allocated reserves – if, of course, justified by specific needs assessment. dear colleagues, let me conclude by saying that all these actions are a concrete demonstration of european solidarity and of efficient collective action. let me make it clear that we stand ready to provide any further assistance to the affected countries. this is our role, this is our obligation, this our moral duty. this is why i insisted on this tangible european solidarity through our response tools.
we have already discussed with the members of the committee on regional policy what we can do. it was decided that same day, through the bureau of parliament, to hold this debate. it is good that you are here and can already indicate with six instruments what you have already done. the aim of the meps is to get eu support for this affected overseas european area - 30% of the houses are gone on sint maarten and the infrastructure is destroyed - really going. the aim is to apply the rules and aid programmes in such a way that the whole specific situation, for example on sint maarten (the french and dutch part) is assessed in its entirety. it is a disaster on these islands, in this case one island, which has a separate administrative status but deserves a single approach. i would therefore ask the two member states to put their requests to the house and i would ask that we treat them positively. president tajani wrote a letter to juncker today about this situation. the european union has a right to vote in st maarten. we must begin to rebuild, and they deserve our support. in addition to the six instruments you have mentioned, i would also like to ask you to look into the possibilities for the eu solidarity fund. it has been used 70 times, in floods and in all kinds of situations, including today for italy. in line with tajani's request, they deserve all our support. get to work!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. unfortunately, lives have been lost and on st. maarten the damage is worse than expected: 90% of the buildings were damaged, one third of the buildings were even completely destroyed. the member states concerned, the netherlands and france, immediately started to provide emergency aid and the european commission has joined in, very rightly and i think it can also do so under article 198 of the treaty. but more is needed than just emergency aid. we have a lot of relationships with the caribbean, and we also know that the climate is becoming more unpredictable and more erratic. so we need to make the residents more resilient, and that can be done through better planning, better buildings, emergency supplies and so on. we must help them as the european union, we must show solidarity. some say the rules prevent it, but emergency breaks the law. we have to act now, together.
the european parliament has called for the commission to take action to combat the spread of the disease. we deplore the loss of life and the many wounded. the images of the huge trail of destruction are deeply moving. roads, ports, airports, hospitals and schools: they've been destroyed or badly damaged. the disruption is great. people are suffering from a shortage of food and drinking water. their homes are mostly gone. i would like to express to the people of the affected areas the deep sympathy of the alde group. first of all, urgent emergency aid must now be provided. but very soon we have to start thinking about the recovery and rebuilding of the islands. together with my french colleague thierry cornillet, i have written a letter to president juncker and we are calling on the commission to make clear what financial support the european commission can provide for reconstruction. it is a supplement to what the commissioner has said and i think it is good to clarify that again. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of the earthquake in the french island of saint-martin, or in the other affected areas, such as st. maarten, st. eustatius, saba or anguilla, or in the outermost regions of saint-martin or in the other overseas countries and territories. the legal status of the affected areas is different, but the need for aid for reconstruction is the same. the commission, therefore, must make a wise use of the funds within the existing rules or put forward proposals to the european parliament here to enable reconstruction. in conclusion, europe and the caribbean may be separated by thousands of kilometres of water, but we are united in solidarity and we are united in our determination to get the land rebuilt.
four dead, many injured and missing and residents who will be dependent on emergency aid for weeks to come and in addition to this, a huge amount of material damage: that's the devastating effect of hurricane irma on 34 square kilometers, namely the dutch part of st. maarten. it is appropriate to express our condolences from this place to all the relatives and victims and, of course, i also address my french and british colleagues in this house. the french and british caribbean are also badly affected. may i also call from this place to all to personally donate to the red cross? europe must never turn its back on its citizens in times of need, and fortunately this is often not the case. this morning, in the votes on the solidarity fund, we showed that europe stands by the people affected by the devastating earthquakes in italy. but it is still unclear this week whether all eu citizens can expect support from europe when it comes to reconstruction. as you know, the island of st. maarten is divided into a dutch and a french part, and both have different legal status within the eu. both parts could therefore receive different forms of reconstruction aid, and all the inhabitants of both parts have eu citizenship. i find it incomprehensible that the eu on an island of only 87 km2 could possibly use different forms of financial support, especially when you know that many of the island's facilities are also shared. i therefore want the commission to give a commitment that both parts of st maarten will be treated equally in terms of financial support. i think that there should be no distinction. the island must not be torn apart by eu status. as far as i am concerned, all the people of sint maarten and therefore our solidarity are paramount. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for this question. at the moment, both st. maarten and saint martin are mapping the extent of the damage and what is needed for reconstruction. and indeed, the solidarity fund offers an opportunity to help people on the islands get back on their feet. it doesn't even matter to me what budget line we're using to pay for this. i am merely saying that there can be no distinction between the french and the dutch parts of the aid for reconstruction.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the fisheries sector. if there is one sea on this planet where there are many regulations in force, it is the north sea. this has kept all the fish stocks in the north sea in good shape. all the major fish stocks are showing positive trends. the fishermen themselves have made great sacrifices. the size of all the north sea fleets has shrunk in recent decades. many fishermen were forced to stop and end their life's work, creating painful situations, especially in family businesses. but fishermen themselves have also made a major contribution to the sustainability and recovery of north sea stocks. the most obvious example is the development of the innovative pulse technique, a fishing method which saves fuel, does not plough the seabed and brings the fish that one wants to catch to the surface, selection in optimal form. unfortunately, there are still groups and ngos who claim that the north sea is overfished. the demand is for even stricter rules and unacceptably high standards. that makes the situation really unworkable. and unfortunately there are also colleagues who do not want pulse fishing. i find it incomprehensible and irresponsible. because it's innovation, but would you want to go back to the days of the tree choir? please don't! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and then we give both the north sea and the tax authorities a good chance for sustainable fishing, and in particular sustainable mixed fisheries.
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. looking ahead, as this european parliament likes to do. i'll give you a few examples. by 2030, global deforestation will have stopped. by 2050, co2 emissions will have been reduced by 95% and overfishing will have been stopped by 2020. but the closer we get to a deadline, the more forward-looking it becomes. the north sea fisheries plan is in danger of becoming a symbol of the forward movement. if this plan is adopted, overfishing will continue beyond 2020. there is a different way to do it, and there is a different way to do it. let us use the maximum sustainable yield as an absolute ceiling in setting the quotas. this leaves no room for differences of interpretation or flexibility. we agreed on that a long time ago, when 2020 seemed a long way off. 2048: the year of the that is a year that still seems far away, but it is the year when the world's seas will be depleted of fish if we do not act quickly. i therefore call on all members of the european parliament not to allow quotas above the maximum sustainable yield and to adopt conservation measures that apply to all species. i have to thank the rapporteur, mrs rodust, for her efforts. she has been committed to a sustainable north sea plan and i hope that we can count on her and her group when we vote tomorrow. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
we are talking today about conservation measures for tuna and tuna-like species. many species of tuna, such as yellowfin and bigeye tuna, are still threatened by overfishing. for a number of other species, there is still great scientific uncertainty. the annual meeting of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) takes place in november. i would urge the commissioner to take the precautionary principle to heart and to take it up at this forthcoming iccat meeting. the minimal signs of recovery, as we see for example with bluefin tuna, are no excuse for increasing fishing pressure already significantly. bluefin tuna is still on the red list of endangered species. i therefore think it is irresponsible that the rapporteur, in the explanatory statement to this report, is again going too far and advocating more catches of bluefin tuna. the increase in tuna quotas is not only endangering bluefin tuna but also other vulnerable species such as swordfish and marlin. and it is precisely the latter that we want to protect with this regulation. this report by the committee on fisheries contains several proposals which go much further than the european commission. they're doing a lot less to protect the ecosystem. the european commission, for example, wanted to reduce the size of the bluefin tuna fleet, or at least not expand it further. the rapporteur wants to get rid of this reduction because it would not be strictly obligatory. but there's no shame in showing a little more ambition. finally, the ban on the sale of white and blue marlin caught in excess of the quota. they are overfished and the status of these fish species is vulnerable. it is not for nothing that there are hardly any fishing opportunities. the committee on fisheries now proposes that marlin should not be counted when caught and landed above quota. for example, the animals could be used for scientific research. it may come as a surprise to some, but a fish that's been killed and landed is missing from the ecosystem, whether you count it or not. and whether you eat it or examine it: overfishing is not stopped by killing fish but by not counting them. overfishing is stopped by fishing less or not at all. i also believe that european agricultural and fisheries subsidies should be abolished.
women are still underrepresented in the labour market in the european union. the total labour force participation rate of women is still 12% lower than that of men in 2017. the report by my colleague mr hedh gives several reasons for this large difference. as long as no or less work is not a free choice, that is unacceptable to me. so i'm also interested in looking at solutions to close this gap. this motion for a resolution offers some good guidelines. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. this should reduce the gender pay gap. the so-called barcelona criteria must also be met. this will enable families to choose more affordable and quality childcare services, thus increasing women's participation in the labour market. in this debate, i think there are two main trends. the first trend is that the inequality between men and women will disappear by itself. the second current is trying to close the gap now. if the calculations show that at the present rate it will take until the end of this century to close the gap, then you will understand why i want to close it now.
it is not good for mr juncker that he has just walked away from the debate, but that is all right. i was in england last week and the eu has made itself so impossible that nobody has any sympathy for brussels. prime minister may makes a nice proposal for permanent residence for everyone who is there legally now and the eu immediately rejects it. she said that a reasonable amount could be paid and the eu wants more, more, more. any negotiation on a future free trade agreement is rejected until london submits to this blackmail. mr president, where is our eternal gratitude to the country that defeated the german nail-boards? brussels wants to impress upon the british people that they have deeply offended everyone here by voting to leave the eu, as if it were high treason. brussels is fine with frustrating a british referendum. tomorrow we'll hear why brussels is also okay with beating up catalan voters. the total moral bankruptcy of the eu could not be more evident this week.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. for example, eu citizens are also british citizens and the european parliament also represents british citizens. but then the text puts all the responsibility squarely on the british. they must fully guarantee the rights of citizens. the british have full responsibility for the relationship between northern ireland and ireland, and the british must first fully arrange for payment. if not, the negotiations will be suspended. so no word on other mutually important subjects, such as trade and fisheries. only one-sided brussels demands and they can have only one purpose, mr president: never should the citizens of any member state ever think of leaving the eu. verhofstadt and his men want a fight. that's only gonna make losers on both sides.
madam president, it has been six months since article 50: six months in which substantial progress could have been made on citizens’ rights, on the financial settlement, and on the irish border issue; six months that could have paved the way for a meaningful conversation about our common future; six months in which bridges could have been built between those who voted to leave and those who would have preferred to remain. but all we have seen in the past six months is chaos: a prime minister who is so preoccupied with her own position that she cannot focus on these negotiations; a foreign secretary who is the main cause of the prime minister’s preoccupations; a house of commons leader who said yesterday that the uk will take back control of its borders, its money and its laws in 2019, denying the idea of a transition period; david davis, who first agreed to the sequencing of negotiations, but now cannot stop complaining about it; michael gove, who is too busy selling pigs’ ears to china to make any meaningful contribution to the process; and then nigel farage stands here in this house and demands a meaningful, intelligent conversation while even he himself has said that, if he does not brexit his way, he will be forced to pick up a rifle. well, good luck having an intelligent conversation with someone like that. so please, our friends in london, be serious. get your act together. stop your party political games and come to the table as a serious, united and credible negotiating partner. all our citizens deserve that. (applause)
the new moldovan electoral law of 20 july further undermines the very democratic rule of law. this politically transparent legislation is intended to exclude or marginalise any potential opposition. that does not bode well for the parliamentary elections next autumn. which brings me to a question: in this worrying situation, should the european union simply proceed to grant 100 million euro in macrofinancial assistance to moldova in instalments? the commission, how does that compare with the joint statement by the council, the commission and parliament which calls for a rule of law approach to this particular aid? i am not asking this without haste, because in the netherlands there are many private foundations - i myself have been part of them, i have been involved in moldova - which want to have the heart in hand for moldova, but that should be possible on the basis of a functioning democratic rule of law, and that is not the case.
we are talking today about child marriage, a phenomenon which unfortunately still exists, and which is even present in our civilized europe. not infrequently, these marriages take place in afghan, somali, iranian, syrian and pakistani communities. this is not so strange when one looks at the legitimacy of many of these marriages. this identity comes from islam. in some european countries it is still possible to have a marriage concluded abroad with a minor recognised. this is beyond words. it is up to the nation states to make it impossible for such barbaric practices to be recognized. it's pure child abuse. it is the duty of every one of us to condemn this in the strongest possible terms. we do not need expensive paid surveys, a commission where open doors are trampled and overpaid bobos are indulging in sweet treats. we need strong policy from the nation states. we want less islam and a halt to immigration from muslim countries.
for the ecr group from a european perspective, it is certainly worthwhile to take a look at social media in egypt. for months, the social media platform has been the scene of heated debate over the results of president sisi's reign and his prospects for re-election in april 2018. this debate is largely positive for the egyptian head of state: a sweeping re-election in april 2018 is in the offing. however, there is also undeniable disappointment among president sisi's supporters about the country's dramatic socioeconomic situation (bread riots, for example). that brings me to the great role that the egyptian military plays in the national economy. i would like to know from the council and the commission, if necessary in writing, how they are dealing with this military business empire in the context of the eu-egypt partnership priorities 2017-2020, which clearly speak of 'strengthening the role of the private sector'. i hope the commission will take note of this and give me a written reply. the role of the military in the egyptian economy. compare that to strengthening the private sector. on page 7 of the official document on the joint partnership priorities, i read that the eu and egypt continue to work together in the fight against extremism, discrimination, including islamophobia and xenophobia. in the light of egyptian reality, two words must not be missing here: against christophobia and anti-semitism.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i hope these words are conveyed to the high representative, commissioner. the circumstances that egyptians live under and the eu’s relation to this crucial country merit a serious and critical assessment. considering the increased focus on security, managing migration and now the eu-egypt partnership, it is shocking and disappointing that the epp and s&d groups have blocked this debate for three years and, even now, colleagues have ensured that this house does not express itself in a resolution this month. i consider this to be a cop-out. the human rights situation in egypt cannot only be relevant for us when it hits home, however terrible the brutal murder of giulio regeni might be, and i too echo the ongoing calls for justice in that case. but countless egyptians face grave injustices and violations of their rights, and we must address their fate too. they face systematic torture, enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings, and all of this is happening with impunity. civilians are still tried by military courts and we have now seen 22 cases of death sentences. very restrictive ngo laws make the work of civil society, including eu-based organisations, nearly impossible. journalists and bloggers are harassed – and i want to highlight particularly the ongoing imprisonment of alaa abd el-fattah – and they cannot work freely, and that is unacceptable. add to that the recent wave of arrests of gay people and the intimidation of lgbt people. that is also unacceptable. no short-term cooperation in the field of anti-terrorism or ‘migration management’ can compensate for these gross violations, nor can they justify the eu’s ongoing silence. egyptians deserve better and need better. we know what a boiling point can be reached if the needs of young people are not addressed. there cannot be a partnership without respect for human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the council for their statements. it is two years, and unfortunately a record number of hurricanes, floods and heat waves, since paris, and while marrakech last year was a sort of post-paris party (though unfortunately under some dark clouds due to the newly elected us president, donald trump), the real work will start now again in bonn, because it is really very important that we clarify the structure of the facilitative dialogue in 2018. this facilitative dialogue should provide us with a clear picture of where we stand, because paris was a huge success, but we knew even while we were still applauding there that it was not enough; that it was not enough to stay within the 1.5 degrees or even the 2 degrees. the facilitative dialogue can therefore lead only to one conclusion: that we have to do more, that we are falling short at the moment. that is why we should not allow the us to renegotiate the commitments that it made in paris. that is crucial, absolutely. but it also means how crucially important it is that we do our work on both the emission trading system, on the effort sharing, and on the energy package. we seriously have to deliver on paris, and not only that: we also have to work on proper implementation. it is wonderful news that our economy is growing again, really good news, but at the same time we see that even in our member states co2 emissions are growing again. they are growing instead of decreasing – and that is something that we should really work on. it is great that we applauded paris, but we cannot applaud without delivering on the promises that we made there.
mr president, it is great that we are again talking here about climate action, and i want to stress that word ‘action’, because the commission also said that europe wants to be the leader in climate action, did it not? so then, maybe it is time to act as well, and that is going to be the key. up to now europe has just had plans on the table there are insufficient to meet the paris goals. we all know that. we have to do more. so, commission, when you are reading parliament’s resolution, please also note that we are demanding for next year a low emission strategy for 2050, because we need this long-term planning. after the facilitative dialogue next year, we need new ndcs in europe where we are increasing our action. only then will we be the leading continent on climate action which we claim to be. but it is not only about numbers and targets. this is about our future economy, and i say this to our nationalist friends on the right who are always very proud of what we can achieve as a country but then suddenly when it is about climate action, suddenly they say we are little, we are small, it does not matter what we do. come on, stay on and be consistent! this is about our future economy. if we take the lead, the jobs will be here. if we do not take the lead, we will suffer from climate change and will have to import the technologies from all those regions that you so much fear. so be clever and take action now!
that was a beautiful speech by my predecessor. i always like to start these debates by saying that it's still entirely a question of whether humans have anything to do with that climate change. at least the scientists disagree on this. what really bothers me is that there is very little room in the social debate to discuss this at all. there's a dutch documentary filmmaker, marijn poels, who made a documentary that makes it very clear that the moment you are even a little bit negative about it or you wonder if humans have anything to do with it, you get zero on the shelf and are immediately put away as a pariah. whether man is influencing it or not, al gore does think that man is influencing the climate. that doesn't stop him from flying around the world in a private jet all year long. and what he also has a lot of influence over is his own financial climate. i looked it up. if you want to book al gore, say, as a speaker for a day, you're out 200,000 euros. yeah, i'll give you two. then you'll have to book ten rooms in a five-star hotel for his entourage. and then, of course, you have to pay for the private plane. so, mr president, i know that. what i also know for sure is that the energy bill of dutch households has increased by 200 euros in the last four years. so that is the old-fashioned, proverbial, chess, mr president. and that is outright theft.
the paris agreement requires: all sectors together to save the global climate. i therefore ask the commission and the member states in particular to finally recognise and financially support the climate efforts of family farms and family farms in european agriculture. i would remind you that the paris agreement requires countries to adapt to the negative effects of climate change in a way that does not jeopardize food production. farmers and gardeners in member states like the netherlands are already working hard to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and to produce our daily bread in a climate-friendly way with investment. the european union must therefore quickly put in place action plans for financing climate-efficient agriculture, as parliament also called for in the esf report, the gerbrandy report. the growing world population is developing a growing demand for food. the growing middle class outside our continent is demanding "luxury" foods such as meat and dairy. the european union, which will be taking part in bonn, must, in view of the global climate and the precious rainforest, prevent carbon and investment leakage from european agricultural production to third countries in all climate measures! our farmers and gardeners produce sustainable food for the world's population. we need to nurture our european farmers and gardeners, help them make the transition, give them more confidence and ultimately offer clarity on the climate transition. in the end, this is of great importance for a viable countryside.
i wonder: what's the airline business? isn't it about transporting passengers safely and efficiently to their destination? their purpose is certainly not to get bogged down in procedures with the airline, which suddenly cancels countless flights. procedures on the right to financial compensation, on the right to alternative flights, on the right to care and information, in short on their rights as passengers. europe once had the ambition to protect people who fly from malpractice. europe was intended to help consumers to obtain their rights. europe has a proposal to tighten up passenger rights in aviation and this adaptation of regulation no 261 of 2004 is becoming increasingly subtle. the air transport sector has changed considerably in the last 13 years and passengers must be able to exercise their rights more easily in the event of cancellations and delays. passengers should be given a wider right to alternative flights and passengers should be better informed by airlines. there is no place in my europe for deception and non-transparent communication. the council has not changed its mind on this tightening of passenger rights by amending regulation no 261. the european parliament, we, the people's representatives, we take people who fly seriously. but the council, representing the member states, has refused to compromise with us for three years. all this, as is well known, because of the dispute over the status of gibraltar airport. european council, take your responsibility, cut political knots, despite the complexity of brexit. you can avoid personal drama around cancellations and with us, the european parliament, ensure that air passengers can still - to use aviation terms - have a smooth landing in such unpleasant circumstances.
in the netherlands we have a wonderful saying: "pride goes before a fall". ryanair always imagines itself as: "we are the biggest airline, we carry the most tourists". but in practice, it is much more difficult to get all these people to their destinations in a decent way. this is a serious fact in itself, especially when you're doing so much advertising. but now it's about how we fix it and i hope that ryanair doesn't let the whole refund - compensating people - go down in endless bureaucratic internet procedures, but simply and honestly returns the money and compensates people. in conclusion, i repeat the question put by mr ertug: where was the irish supervisor? it is not possible that ryanair is protected by the irish regulator on such matters. i hope the commissioner will give a clear answer to that. we have overseers, and they have to do their job. the second question i repeat is the question van miltenburg asked the council: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council, under the estonian presidency, could play a very good role in this.
author. – mr president, i think my colleague ms guteland has already explained the importance of this debate on endocrine disrupters. to be very clear, we have been debating this since 2009 when the commission was asked to come forward with criteria to define what endocrine disruptors are. this was part of the regulation on biocides and pesticides and it was one of the key debates. what are the criteria for endocrine disrupters? it took many years before the commission finally came up with those criteria. it actually took the court of justice to push the commission to come forward with the criteria. but another very important discussion that took place in 2009 was to ask what the cut-off criteria were with regard to the definition of endocrine disruptors. these cut-off criteria were crucial because, of course, if you fall outside the scope of the definition, you are not considered to be an endocrine disruptor. that was a crucial debate. an entire annex was drafted to design these cut-off criteria, and one of the key provisions there was that substances should be approved only if they were not considered to have endocrine-disrupting properties on non-target organisms. i repeat: ‘on non-target organisms’. it is precisely this provision that the commission is now changing – through comitology and a delegated act. the commission is changing a key provision of a law through comitology, and that is precisely what we are objecting to. the key question is whether the commission is exceeding its implementing powers and the answer is ‘yes’. we even have advice from the legal service saying ‘yes’, the commission is exceeding its implementing powers. that is exactly what we are discussing here. the commission will say that we need to hurry up now, as this will delay things. well, sorry! i say to the commission: you have been delaying since 2009. secondly, the biocides regulation is putting the same criteria on the table and there is no objection to that one. so we are objecting to the commission exceeding its implementing powers, and that is a legal question that all our colleagues need to answer. this is not about whether you like it or not: this is about whether we allow the commission to change a crucial part of the law through implementing powers. if they want to make that change, then they should come forward with a proposal for codecision. that is the way we do it. my question to our colleagues is: are we here for the rule of law or for the rule of industry?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is a very bad thing that we are having this debate here tonight, because the issue of endocrine disruptors is a very serious one that should have been settled years and years ago. the commission had to set the scientific criteria, but by introducing a derogation it took not a technical decision but a political decision. that leaves us with no other choice than to object. commissioner, i am afraid you have just given all the arguments why this is a political decision. you talked about year-long negotiations within council. why should you negotiate for a year if it is a technical decision? that is incomprehensible. you talked about a balanced compromise, but that is incompatible with a technical decision. i am afraid that you have completely side-lined the european parliament: we should have been part of these negotiations with council, and that is why you leave us no other solution than to object.
the european commission has been making excuses for years to keep endocrine disruptors on the market, when hundreds of studies have shown that they are harmful to health even in low doses. and they're everywhere. they're in cosmetics and toys, they're in agricultural pesticides, and they're in the rubber pellets on the artificial turf fields that our children play on. the commission has a legal duty to protect man, animals and the environment from endocrine disrupting substances. i would remind the commission that this protection will not be effective if it opens the back door to hormone disruptors and does so through an illegal procedure which makes it impossible for parliament to intervene. i would remind the commission that this protection will not be effective if the burden of proof is increased and the precautionary principle is not applied. half measures are not accepted. all hormone disruptors must be withdrawn from the market. the commission has had many opportunities to do so. commissioner, as far as i'm concerned, you don't deserve another chance. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
i would like to begin by apologizing to my colleague, cláudia monteiro, who was the shadow rapporteur for two of these reports. the interest in this debate would not suggest that this is a major maritime issue. there are several aspects which we are discussing tonight which directly affect the workings of the internal market. a single maritime market is of great importance to europe. the first is the safety of ships and passenger ships. a big subject, unfortunately, with a few accidents in the past. and if we look outside of europe, we see a lot of these accidents. the second element is indeed automation and registration. mrs. stevens said it before: better safety for the passengers, that they know what they're up against. the third topic is inspection. we must be careful in europe not to have too much overlapping of inspections. the latter proposal aims to simplify, simplify and improve inspections. finally, the service to the citizens. that is an important part of these three reports. it's easier to know where you stand. it is quicker to know who is on board and that will again improve safety. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, but also the three rapporteurs who have managed to make these technical dossiers go smoothly. we are taking another step forward in the safety and development of 'maritime europe'.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, after the second world war, europe was the driving force behind the many treaties that were concluded to protect human rights. the geneva convention on the protection of refugees was one of these. now the european council is to talk about stemming illegal flows on all migration routes. that same geneva convention states very clearly that illegal entry can never be held against refugees, so this type of language undermines respect for the elementary rights of refugees. i call upon the council to rephrase the wording, putting the emphasis again on europe’s tradition of caring about people, and to make sure that the refugees are protected. in the field of human rights, ambition is lacking more generally. the commission is making no progress whatsoever with the ratification by the eu of the european convention on human rights, nor with the european social charter. when, first vice-president timmermans, can we expect to see a breakthrough here? in a few weeks’ time, in geneva, the un will again discuss a convention on business and human rights. the commission and the member states are not driving forces there, indeed they are reluctant to participate, whereas we all know about inhuman practices, in closing factories, or in mines, and in africa and developing countries generally. if we want dignity and stability, we need to invest in respect for human rights, including by our companies, instead of in arms and defence. we all saw the tragic pictures of the attack in las vegas. it is cynical that, after such an attack, arms sales in the usa go up – for so-called self-defence. this is a vicious circle: the more arms people buy, or a state buys, the more attacks. let us learn from this. instead of speaking about more defence, let us stick to the european tradition of promoting human rights, including through radical disarmament treaties. we should not fall into the trump vicious circle. let us be different, let us be ourselves and let us invest in human rights and not in arms. (applause from the left)
mr president, the biggest threat to europe at the moment is not migration or terrorism. the biggest threat to the european union is paralysis, stagnation and a lack of courage. there are plenty of good ideas on the table, but there is little progress. the biggest test will be to see if the european union is willing and able to uphold its own values, which we have laid down in the treaties, when they are under pressure. some grand visions for the future have been laid out by mr juncker, mr macron and others, and some react by saying these are too romantic: if you have vision you need to see an eye doctor, it is unrealistic, it is a fantasy. i actually think it is totally unrealistic to imagine we can tackle the challenges of the 21st century with a model that was perfect for the 19th century but is totally unsuitable for the world of today. i think that is a fantasy and that is unrealistic. (applause) finally, on migration, i hear what the council is saying but parliament has been doing its homework on the asylum package. we are waiting for ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, turkey is on the agenda of the european council meeting, and it is high time the european leaders developed a proper strategy on how to deal with developments in this eu candidate country. until now, the approach has been to wait, see and hope that things will improve in the country whilst the situation continues to deteriorate. the european parliament has called on the council and the commission to formally suspend the accession talks if the new constitution is implemented, as it runs contrary to the copenhagen criteria. but it is also important that we stand in solidarity with the turkish population in these difficult times. we expect eu leaders at the summit to make the same distinction in their approach. strict when it comes to our own values and in reaction to clear breaches of fundamental rights, while sending a strong message to the citizens of turkey that we are willing to continue supporting democrats and civil society in their country. it would be a mistake only to react to president erdogan and to forget about the population.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, in july of this year the commission and this parliament threatened poland with the withdrawal of voting rights because of legislation on the judiciary. the commission and parliament opposed amendments to the constitution of hungary, which included the organisation of public broadcasters. the commission and this parliament are fully at ease with the condemnation of laws and constitutions of democratic states when they do not obey the diktats of brussels. they claim that the eu is a community of values. what they do not say is that laws are subordinate to it, that democratic decisions, freedom and self-determination are subordinate to it. freedom, democracy and human rights apply only to member states that serve the eu agenda. for spain, national sovereignty and the primacy of the constitution apply. for poland and hungary, they do not. this eu is indeed a community of values: of double values and double standards. if you are in favour of the eu elitist, globalist agenda, then you can do anything. when you are against it, they will combat you using all available means. the hypocrisy of this commission has no limits. in september last year, mr juncker explicitly condemned violence against polish workers in the united kingdom. in spain 800 people have been beaten up and needed hospital treatment because hundreds of thousands were about to vote in a formally illegal referendum. in its declaration, the commission stated only that violence can never be an instrument in politics. certainly, violence does not belong in politics. and of course the state has the monopoly to use force to protect the rule of law. the state can use proportionate violence to stop unlawful behaviour or to prevent this from happening. but when hundreds of thousands illegally enter a country, would it be proportional to beat up 800 of them (so that they end up in hospital)? would your response there be that violence can never be an instrument of politics? i am convinced that mr timmermans would explode in anger and this parliament would demand immediate action, so let me be clear: i fully support the rule of law – that is, the rule of law of the sovereign nation state, the free nation state, the democratic nation state. that is the rule of law which should be defended. however, i certainly cannot accept the hypocrisy of this commission and this parliament, which are concealing the advancement of their own elitist economic interest under the guise of european values. i am completely against silencing opponents, against financing pro-eu propagandists and persecuting eu-sceptical parties and member states, and i am telling mr timmermans and mr verhofstadt that article 2 of the treaty on european union calls for respect for human dignity and equality. equality and respect are not a right only for europhiles and globalists: they are a right for all citizens in the eu. they should start acting accordingly. (applause from certain quarters)
a common currency requires a common policy and not rigid rules. i am following a dutch tradition, once started by a liberal finance minister, gerrit zalm, in advocating a structural budgetary policy in which budgetary shocks are absorbed and not averted by austerity and people having to fear for their jobs, and in which full employment is sought in good times and in bad. the euro can do so much better. the euro should have brought countries together, but it has caused countries to grow apart. the euro should have provided stability, but economies have proved vulnerable especially in the south. so i am advocating a euro with 1) a clear, defined european responsibility through a buffer fund, through shock absorbers to absorb the shock, through a european backstop so that banks cannot overthrow countries; the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive. because the euro is ours and democratic accountability must be given to elected representatives of the people. this can be done by a european finance minister and not by an unelected president of a shadowy eurogroup. and that can also be done by a budgetary union as is now being proposed, but different from what is now being established. in short, the euro can do so much better and the euro must do so much better.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors for presenting his annual report, which is a very important document because it forms the basis for much of our work on budgetary control. i am happy to admit that in the past the debate on the report has been rather confined to the finding that the court of auditors was again unable to give an assent because of an excessively high error rate. that is not good, because of course there is more to it than just a percentage of error. that is why i welcome the fact that the court of auditors is now looking at our money more broadly. at the same time, attention to the legality of expenditure must not be slack. if i have to read in a footnote that you can also say that the actual error rate is not 3.1 but 5.1 percent, then something is wrong. this is about the accountability of expenditure from the financial instruments. the court of auditors itself states that eur 2.3 billion was spent outside the period in question, without any legal basis, which parliament also agreed to. how could you do that? the same applies to the commission's reserves, which are increased from 21% to 26% of expenditure. it would be the first time that the commission itself is more critical than the court of auditors. that would be a real one-off. how does the court of auditors explain these inconsistencies? and can we continue to trust the court of auditors to be very precise and very critical in checking legality for the next 40 years?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. that's not surprising, because there's a flaw in the system. for example, if you look at grant money: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. they have no interest in that, so it's not happening. the court of auditors has, however, with a great deal of art and flying and a lot of tricks, thought it had to give its approval, and that is wrong. what is particularly disturbing is that mr brenninkmeijer suggests that we open champagne or prosecco. because essentially nothing has changed from the last few years. all i can think of is that we have european elections in 2019 and you can't start the good news show early enough. but the worst thing is that mr brenninkmeijer, the dutch member of the european court of auditors, is dragging one of the last rational bastions in the eu violence - the european court of auditors - into the subjective political quagmire.
can i safely do my job today? that is what many truck drivers ask themselves when they drive their lorries through europe. i share the concerns of the truck drivers. it is for this reason that my colleague, mr de jong, and i have written to the transport ministers of the netherlands, belgium and france, asking them to take measures to ensure a safe route to calais. my first question to the commissioner is: has this subject actually been discussed at the transport council in september? my second question would be: if we as the european parliament called for safer parking spaces in 2015, and the commissioner says that nine have been built with european money in the last period, which member states should do more to guarantee the safety of our drivers? i believe that we have a common task here as the european parliament, the european commission and the member states.
the crimean peninsula has been under russian occupation for more than three years now, with human rights violations being commonplace. there are reports of torture and arbitrary arrests. the situation of the crimean tatars is most distressing. the case of umerov, chiygoz and semena, which we are discussing here, is exemplary. they are now paying a heavy price for criticizing the illegal annexation. after a shadowy trial, all three were sentenced to disproportionately long prison terms. as the eu, it is our duty to stand up for journalists and human rights defenders, including those outside our borders. crimea must not be forgotten. the situation of the inhabitants of the illegally annexed territory must remain on the international agenda. that is why i also call on the eu to continue to address russia and to press for the release of these three people.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my group has two requests relating to the same topic. first of all, we feel that, given the scale of the debate around the world on this topic, it should have a more prominent place on the agenda this week. we suggest that, rather than discussing it late on tuesday night, we discuss it on wednesday morning. the second request – and ska keller has already referred to an article in politico about harassment inside the eu institutions – is that, before the next part-session, you report to us first of all about what the situation is, and secondly, what measures you are going to take to make sure that it does not happen, that when it does happen people actually have somebody to turn to, and that there are procedures for tackling this.
mr president, it is of course terrible when people die in a forest fire, but i think that this is a case of weak symbolism. i did not hear the gue/ngl group when it was discussing the terrible earthquake in italy, which you must also take to heart personally. but now that we are dealing with this and we have brought it up for the current debate, it has to be postponed and another debate has to be held. it is the custom in this house that topical and urgent debates are the first to be discussed on wednesday afternoons, and i would ask you to respect this custom. i know that there are members of parliament who abuse their own assistants - a shocking lack of respect for fellow human beings. i see a similar lack of respect in this proposal. i hope we all vote against it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, modern agriculture is able to offer solutions to climate change, a better environment and more biodiversity through ecological and technological innovations. this requires adapting european legislation. for example, outdated legislation limits a farmer's ability to fertilize his land with animal manure from his own farm. he has to drain the excess animal manure. to meet the fertilizer needs of his crop, he buys fertilizer. the world is upside down. the farmer should be able to use his own fertilisers as much as possible instead of buying fertilisers. in comparison, we import 6 million tons of phosphate fertilizer annually, while we could recover 2 million tons of phosphate from organic sources, such as manure and waste streams. we have to close this loop. this reduces the environmental impact and greenhouse gas emissions. fortunately, the european commission is making this possible. in addition, phosphate fertilisers may contain the carcinogen cadmium. that is a major risk to our environment and food safety that we cannot allow. i therefore vote in favour of strict cadmium limits in fertilisers. arguments from the industry that the price of fertilizer will increase dramatically and farmers will pay the price are scare tactics and have been contradicted by agricultural economists. in fact, the opposite is true. i do not want farmers to be labelled environmental criminals in a few years' time because cadmium is found in the soil, or worse, in our food. because they use fertilisers that comply with european rules, european rules that we are making together here today. in addition, a new fertiliser regulation provides ample scope for alternatives. the new fertilisers regulation finally gives organic fertilisers more scope to compete with man-made fertilisers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we all know what we are trying to do here. we are trying to create one internal market for all fertilisers, because we know that until now the scope has been very limited. when we are doing that, then one of the key issues is going to be the level of cadmium that is allowed because we all know, it is a fact: cadmium is a heavy metal and carcinogenic to people. we know that, and we also know – this was already investigated by the european food safety authority (efsa) – that in 2009 europeans’ intake of cadmium was at the maximum limit set by efsa, and the intake for some more vulnerable groups there was a higher of cadmium than was allowed. these are concerning facts that need to be addressed, because we also know that of all the cadmium limits, until now only the fertiliser group has been exempted. if we are going to make a european regulation – and we know that there are many national applications in place – we have to take into consideration that the proposals by the commission entail, for some countries, a dilution of the current cadmium limits. that is on the table, and then people are saying that this will hamper the fertiliser industry. to them i say: ‘excuse me, can we base this kind of debate on facts?’ wageningen university have been looking after the research and they say that the cost of meeting the cadmium limits that are being proposed would be minimal. and reducing cadmium limits would also be a stimulus for innovation: getting to clean fertiliser without cadmium would be an example of the circular economy. that is what we are trying to do here. most of the arguments you hear positing that this is impossible are predicated on a very old-fashioned idea that innovation is not happening. if we can be innovative europe then we can be the selling market for clean fertilisers. that is what is at stake, and we don’t want to hear any flippant discussions. what is also very important is that in the end, if we are not doing this right, who will pay the price? it is the farmers still using the contaminated fertilisers, because they must use the market. and if we find out there is more and more cadmium in our soils, and who will be getting the blame? it is the farmers. so if you are really concerned about the farmers, you have to make sure that the producers get the limits that they need to get. and that is at stake and all the other arguments are just fake.
mr president, we are voting tomorrow on essential european legislation in the field of the environment and the internal market. the european circular economy must also include fertilising products. that's what we're talking about here. high-quality mineral concentrate and other organic fertilising products based on animal manure should be able to be used throughout europe if they have the same efficacy and environmental properties as mineral fertilisers. phosphate is running low. recycling manure and sewage through technology is profitable and makes us independent. it is a good sign that this parliament is supporting the recovery of struvite and is finally investigating animal manure criteria. we must stop discriminating against high-quality organic fertilisers on the basis of manure. our group has therefore tabled another amendment. if you support the circular economy, water quality and european soil health, i count on your support for all of them. all over europe our farmers and gardeners are asking for fertilisers, soil improvers and innovative techniques. we must therefore avoid becoming totally dependent on the phosphate mines of one country, and i am talking about russia, for our food production. because, in addition to organic fertilisers, affordable manure is essential to our european contribution to food production throughout the world. give confidence to our innovative farmers, our gardeners and fertilizer producers. finally, we are also constantly talking about breaking the nitrate directive. it is a matter of updating outdated legislation, such as the 1991 nitrate directive, now hopelessly outdated and unnecessarily restrictive of high-quality processed fertilisers. and i look at mr tarabella. if you want to achieve what you have just mentioned, you will have to agree to this. otherwise we will keep talking, talking, talking in this parliament and nothing else will come of it.
"the social gap in europe is widening. between young and old. between the south and the north. poverty reduction has become a neglected child". those were my words two years ago. i asked for concrete proposals to combat poverty. i am pleased that we are discussing today a proposal that we have been waiting for since the 2008 crisis, namely a first step towards a living wage for all europeans. this is a good thing, because i believe that everyone in europe should be able to count on a decent living. this proposal also refers to an (unconditional) basic income. i'm not in favour of that in advance. everyone can be expected to contribute to the extent of his or her ability to keep public services affordable for people who are facing illness or adversity, for example. of course, i'd be happy to be convinced otherwise. i'm curious to see what the results of the experiments with a basic income will be. many europeans are still living in poverty. we cannot accept that. it is time we took this "neglected child" by the hand and did something. the guarantee of a decent standard of living in each member state is a good first step.
mr president, every conclusion of the council is wrong, but the conclusion on turkey is really completely unacceptable. the council discussed turkey and concluded that member states should fully implement the migrant deal and show full commitment to this cooperation. what a bunch of hypocrites! president, turkey is an islamic dictatorship. it is a country that exterminates minorities, that persecutes the free press, and that throws political opposition into prison. the conclusions should have been: the eu must stop all accession aid to turkey, greece must tow every migrant boat back to turkey and the migrant deal must be thrown in the trash. finally, the council should have decided to ban foreign funding for mosques, islamic educational institutions and islamic ngos. and i urge the council, mr tusk, to adopt these conclusions next time. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, cooperation with turkey can take many forms. this is about turkey's accession to the european union. we certainly do not want that. cooperation with turkey, yes, trade with turkey. but is turkey a reliable military partner? turkey has also bought s400 weapons systems from russia. and that is our nato member, our nato partner. i would like to say: turkey is so unreliable that you shouldn't do business with it.
madam president, i would briefly like to say something about the asylum policies. mr tusk very proudly announced that they will, at some point in 2018, agree on border control, but that is actually not the same as a proper asylum policy. fortress europe: that is what the council is trying to build – keeping people out – and it is remarkable that this house, with 751 meps representing more than 200 political parties, is able to come to agreement. we are one legislator and the council, with 28 individuals, is totally unable to reach agreement on one of the most important challenges of this moment. i think that is totally irresponsible and only shows the total bankruptcy of the intergovernmental method. i really hope that the council is now going to move forward on the files that have been adopted here – dublin, the reception conditions – because we have been waiting. we voted on reception conditions almost half a year ago. the council is completely paralysed and we cannot wait until next summer for a solution. we need a decision by the council now; it is their responsibility.
madam president, two comments on my part on the discussion on turkey at the last council meeting. firstly, the european union wishes to continue to seek dialogue with turkey. in that case i expect that the european side will take up the issue of freedom of worship for turkish christians, because the pressure on them is increasing - i heard that last week - including recent attempts to close churches in izmir. my second comment, madam president, is more a question and points to a contradiction in european policy. how consistent is a european policy in which turkey, on the one hand, - and this is understandable - wants to cut pre-accession funds or to shift them to civil society because of - and i quote chancellor merkel - the absolutely unsatisfactory human rights situation, and on the other hand, turkey generously supports the construction of the trans-anatolian gas pipeline through european banks? the council will have to deal with these inconsistencies and so will the commission.
madam president, after a three-hour discussion by eu leaders on turkey, the only sentence that made it to the conclusions was: ‘the european council held a debate on relations with turkey’. on such an important topic, it would have been good to start seeing strategic thinking on the part of our heads of state. it is clear what eu leaders do not want – no opening of accession chapters, no modernisation of the customs union, no lifting of the visa requirement for turkish citizens, no harsh words on fundamental human rights abuses – but all these noes do not add up to a strategy on how to make an attempt to keep turkey anchored to the eu. on the eve of the summit, another low point was reached in turkey with the arrest of osman kavala, a leading activist in building a more tolerant and open turkey. how is the eu showing its solidarity with civil society in turkey and with millions of citizens who are going through very difficult times? cutting back on pre-accession funding is no more than logical in the light of current events, but a good signal would be to use that money to help turkey’s democrats. they are the ones who deserve our fullest support.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i have just come from the college meeting where we agreed on our work programme for 2018 and i am pleased to be here to present it to you straightaway, this afternoon. the work programme is the commission’s commitment to you, and to europeans, about what we will do in the coming year. it is a crucial period because together we have just over 18 months to show results before our citizens go to the ballot box to re-elect this house. there are no surprises in what we announce today. the work programme reflects fully the ambition, content and tone of jean-claude juncker’s state of the union speech and the letter of intent we sent you in parallel. at the same time, our work programme has certainly been enriched by, and builds on, the fruitful exchanges we have had in this chamber with the conference of committee chairs and the conference of presidents, as well as on our exchanges with the member states in line with the interinstitutional agreement on better law—making. we have also discussed with the council and have had contributions from the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. i would like to thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had and continue to enjoy. we need to build on this in the decisive months to come. i think we have now established, after three years, quite a routine in doing this and it is working well. the work programme sets out an agenda for a more united, stronger and more democratic europe. it has a twofold focus. first, we set out a limited number of new proposals, which we will deliver by may 2018 so that the legislative work here and in the council can be finished before the elections. the commission has already tabled more than 80% of the proposals needed under the 10 priorities set out by president juncker in 2014. now we will focus on getting the remaining proposals on the table and working with you and the council to see them adopted. our focus is on the limited number of proposals needed to complete the strategies we have set out. to boost jobs, growth and investment, we will pursue work to deliver on the circular economy action plan and to complete the digital single market, the energy union, the capital markets union and the banking union. we will propose the creation of a dedicated euro area budget line within the eu budget, along with other measures to complete the economic and monetary union, including transforming the european stability mechanism into a european monetary fund. to create a deeper and fairer internal market with a strengthened industrial base, we will present an initiative on fair taxation in the digital economy and a proposal to improve the eu food supply chain. we are – like you – looking forward to the proclamation of the european pillar of social rights next month. we will follow up with a social fairness package that creates a european labour authority to help address labour mobility and social security challenges. we will improve the rules requiring employees to be properly informed about their contracts and will present an initiative on access to social protection so that everyone who works, whether in traditional or new jobs in the gig economy, can contribute and have access to social protection. we will also table targeted new measures to complete the security union, in particular as concerns the fight against terrorism and ensuring the interoperability of stronger and smarter databases for our border migration and security needs. we will strengthen the union’s civil protection mechanism so that we are better prepared to help in situations such as the tragic and devastating forest fires we have seen recently in portugal and spain. we will continue to work on our comprehensive approach to migration with an emphasis on returns, protecting our external borders, solidarity with africa, opening legal pathways and, above all, agreeing on dublin reform and the blue card proposal. we will set out our ideas about how to modernise our visa policy. we will keep up the focus on migration management in our relations with third countries and we will deliver on the global strategy, whilst also pursuing a balanced and progressive trade policy to harness globalisation. the second focus of our work programme is more forward-looking and aims to shape the union until 2025. this vision is based on three principles which must always anchor our union: freedom, equality and the rule of law. a more united union will require opening the schengen area fully to romania and bulgaria, as well as a credible enlargement perspective for front-runner candidates in the western balkans. by the way, the schengen area should also be opened to croatia if it can fulfil the requirements. to build a stronger union, we will table a proposal for the future multiannual financial framework, including own resources. we need a budget that helps us to meet citizens’ expectations of an eu that delivers on the things that matter most and that contributes to the long-term sustainability of the union. we will also propose more efficient decision—making for the single market and certain foreign policy decisions. we will adopt a reflection paper on a sustainable european future and a communication on the future of eu energy and climate policy and propose an extension of the tasks of the european public prosecutor’s office to also tackle terrorism. for a more democratic union, we will make proposals for the creation of a permanent and accountable european minister of economy and finance and an initiative on further enhancing subsidiarity, proportionality and better regulation in the daily work of the european union. we will also propose an initiative on strengthening the enforcement of the rule of law. furthermore, since what matters is results on the ground, the work programme sets out the commission’s commitment to step up its work on the enforcement of eu law, working closely with national authorities and the various european networks. in parallel with our work programme, we are also presenting today a communication on completing the better regulation agenda. our work here is grounded on strong stakeholder involvement, including the input of the refit platform. given the forthcoming european parliament elections, we are now firmly in a period where we need to deliver. priority legislative files need to be adopted and, where possible, implemented before the end of parliament’s mandate. the joint declaration on eu legislative priorities, signed by the presidents of the three institutions last december, has proved valuable in helping us to find shared priorities and stick to them. the commission looks forward to an agreement later this year on the new joint declaration shaping our common work for 2018 and we can then also take stock of what we did on the basis of the declaration of 2017. we need to use the current momentum to ensure real progress in order to finish what we have started and to deliver on our positive agenda because, when you rise for elections in a year and a half’s time, the success of the eu will not be judged on the number of proposals that the commission has launched. we will be judged collectively on the answers we have delivered and how we have responded to the big challenges like climate change, globalisation, the security of our citizens, migration, jobs and growth, on which europeans expect effective european solutions.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, thank you, and thank you, commissioner. i have only just received the text, so i have not been able to read all the details yet, but i am going to say something which may shock you. indeed, i intend to praise you for what you have just said – yes, i know you are going to need months of therapy to get over it. nevertheless, we do seem to be past the stage of thinking that delivering results lies in scrapping red tape. what you have just told us here sounds like a vision for the future, and, unlike some other people, i do not believe that you need to see an eye doctor if you have vision. on migration, the commission has done what it needs to do. parliament has done its homework. it is actually those who are absent who have not done their homework. as we said this morning, migration is more than fortress europe, for the question is not only how we keep people out, but also how we are going to process people, the rapid inflows of migrants. i am very, very pleased to hear that you are going to work on a mechanism for the enforcement of the rule of law: that is, of course, most welcome, but in the short term there are also things that we need to do. for example, i would be really, really pleased if the commission were to reinstate the corruption reports: we have just seen last week in malta what corruption and in particular those who are investigating corruption can do. we urgently need a strong tool for investigating corruption and also the rule of law – in poland, for example. what does it mean if the commission has more or less concluded that the judiciary in poland is no longer independent? what does that mean for cooperation? what about the european arrest warrant, ecris, the schengen information system – are we going to use polish material? what are we going to do? and finally, i am very curious to see the details of your proposals for a minister of economic affairs and finance, which, to my mind will contribute greatly to a more accountable and transparent european union.
for the enf group we are discussing the commission's work programme today. but what actually works? of course, we see mr juncker at work: clearly drunk kisses and then he taps on it like the whole me too hype doesn't exist. we see mr timmermans punishing countries which stand up for their own people, such as poland, hungary and slovakia. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the way in which the council has dealt with the matter. no one did. climate is another subject that makes your glasses crackle when you read it. we can reduce global warming by a few thousandths of a degree by cutting carbon emissions by half. it's costing hundreds of billions in taxpayer money. that's not gonna work either. i would like to conclude with the unwise plan to work for a european finance minister. we see in the various countries the disastrous consequences of a failing euro. by printing 80 billion a month, the currency is artificially propped up. that is an untenable construct, of course. if the euro is to stand on its own feet again, then all hell will break loose and the suffering will be unimaginable. so this is only going to work in the imagination of the people in the front seats. the only thing that will really work is to uncover this failed experiment and to put decision-making back where it belongs, namely in the democratically elected parliaments of the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. on the global level, europe is a very important player in trade. the system of trade preferences is specifically designed to encourage countries to improve their respect for human rights. let us not forget that specific objective. one of the countries currently benefiting from the gsp+ trade benefit is pakistan. unfortunately, human rights are being trampled on in pakistan, including by the government. after all, why is blasphemy still punishable by death? and why has asia bibi been on death row for seven years? i call on the commission to make a serious assessment of the trade advantages for pakistan and i believe that these advantages have unfortunately not been able to make the difference. if so, this gsp+ status should be frozen or withdrawn. finally, i believe that the mandate of the special envoy for religious freedom should be extended next spring.
commissioner, this is vice-president timmermans. i'd like to compliment you on your progress report, but i'd still like to extend an invitation to you. 2018 will be the year of the mff with dozens of implementing regulations to be submitted for the period after 2020. what's our experience? in the past period, we have seen that they were late to actually start doing that at the beginning of 2014, 2015 and 2016. this has meant that in a number of areas, such as cohesion policy and the second pillar of agriculture, the start of expenditure has been very late. i'll have to do better now. we need to move it up. this can also be done if the regulations are presented in one go, in mid-2018. if we do not, we will have a repetition of what we have seen, namely that expenditure is made very late in the period, in the 5 or 7 years. we saw last time that there was a huge pile of unpaid bills coming in. we already see that in 2016 €8 billion will be returned to the member states. and we're going to have a huge avalanche of bills, coming in 2019 and 2020. and then not talk about the brexit. so, indeed, better regulation and also timely regulation to be able to show in 2019 that parliament is really giving that direction. we cannot have a situation where we are in the middle of 2019 with debates that are not finalised and 2020 and 2021 are bad years. that's my call: timely regulation..
mr president, today we are discussing the 2018 eu budget. unfortunately, it still contains the greatest possible amount of nonsense. in order to counterbalance the pro-european party, i have tabled a number of amendments with my colleagues. i'll give you a few examples. stop european funds to fight unemployment, economic recession, poverty, the migration crisis and security threats. let the sovereign states decide. the youth employment initiative has failed completely to solve youth unemployment and must be stopped immediately. despite huge eu spending in recent years, the problem of large-scale migration and human trafficking in europe has not been solved. finally, the eu's attitude towards turkey is hypocritical and cowardly. turkey must never become a member of the eu. the negotiations must therefore be stopped and no more billions must be sent to turkey. if it is up to me and my party, we will stop today with the inefficient, wasteful european union and parliament. this budget reinforces my conviction.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament must be much more critical of its spending pattern. the budget available is now the starting point. this gives the perverse incentive to actually spend the budget in full. this is a result of no or little prioritization. unlike in national parliaments, it does not seem politically interesting in this house to have money left over that flows back to the taxpayer. of course there are issues that we have to tackle at european level, such as terrorism, improving the european internal market and guarding europe's external borders. i see, however, that a lot of money is being wasted on political showpieces. think of free train tickets, a european museum and even an extra budget for sending christmas cards. the taxpayers' money must be handled differently. i therefore propose a european salmon standard: the revenue should no longer determine the expenditure. parliament must take care of any setbacks it may encounter. if more money is spent on one side, there will be cuts elsewhere.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to pay tribute to daphne caruana galizia. her name has been mentioned several times here today and i would also like to give my condolences to her family. i met her sons this afternoon and i was really impressed by their wisdom and their strength, but if you read about her life, that’s not surprising. she was an exceptionally courageous and strong woman, and i think that we have to show the same courage, because i think we are all united today in shock, in grief and in our wish to uphold freedom of the media, freedom of expression. but we also have to act. the first one to act, obviously, is the maltese government: they will have to investigate her murder and make sure that the murderers do not get away with impunity. but also those who actually wanted her gone should not get away with impunity, because this was not just a murder tackling an individual person – she was exposing corruption and crime. we should investigate that as well, because this is not a mere maltese problem: this is a european problem. we are talking about international networks of corruption and crime, money—laundering, hiding criminal money, and so on. so i think there is a task here for the european union, and i think the european people’s party just suggested that we investigate the rule of law in malta – that was a kind of general statement, but i do think it is very important that we get clarifications from the maltese government about the allegations of corruptions which she was investigating. we have to continue that investigation, and i would suggest that first of all – in the very short term, within the next couple of weeks – that we organise an econ-libe hearing and invite experts on the maltese situation; on the investigations into corruption and crime. but i think we should also look into ways of continuing that and deepening that investigation and make sure that we eradicate corruption and crime and money laundering from the european union, and malta is part of the european union. finally, commissioner, you said that the european commission doesn’t have the competences to actually intervene, and i don’t think (as mr gonzález pons said) that it is for the european commission to conduct a police investigation into a murder. but you can investigate allegations of corruption, and you can indeed investigate allegations that, for example, the judiciary or the police is not independent, because if one member state – whether it is malta, poland, hungary, france or indeed the netherlands or romania – does not uphold the european standards when it comes to the rule of law, that means that there is no rule of law in the european union. we have an area of freedom, security and justice, so if one member state doesn’t function in this respect, then the whole system fails. so it is in everybody’s interests that we investigate. is that painful? yes it is. but this is a political union: we all have to make sure that these problems are eradicated, and i think we owe it to daphne. we cannot just make statements here; we have to be courageous and go against those who actually do not wish us to investigate. this has to be done, and i hope that we are going to find agreement amongst all the political groups for the exact instruments – the appropriate instruments – in honour of daphne.
mr president, every morning you whistle to go to work and at the moment when you can enjoy your retirement, asbestos cancer is diagnosed. cancer, notably, as a result of the work you've done. it happens in europe thousands of times a year. that is why i am so pleased with the report by my colleague mr ulvskog. i think that there are good standards in there, stricter standards on harmful substances released in industrial production, including chromium. and yet, there are industries that have been very much opposed to these new rules, who prefer to continue exposing their workers to harmful substances because it is cheaper. the same industries have been bothering the commission for ten years about the stricter rules that the commission wanted to propose. i think that's embarrassing. i never thought i'd be the one to tell the corporate world about the economy, but let me say this: you can't make a company profitable with dead employees. it would be in the interests of the companies to urge that these new rules be implemented with the necessary urgency.
the european union is the solution to the problem. in my libe committee you see the future of the eu emerging: a litany of laws that undermine the sovereignty of member states and underline the sanctity of the eu. the national parliaments will no longer be concerned with anything at all: it's not about monetary policy, it's not about social policy, it's not about privacy, it's not about criminal law, it's not about migration, and it's not even about who can and can't be in their country. the entry-exit system presented here is a very good example of this: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not blocked. several objectives have been formulated, including the fight against terrorism and serious crime. didn't that go well before schengen? the new system will scan tourists' passports before they are allowed into the eu, but allow terrorists who arrive illegally by boat to pass through. so how does this help? moreover, the perpetrators of these attacks have always been known to the secret services, but they have not been caught, because, yes, we are not able to think about how to deal with islam. and crime, yes, in the netherlands, is increasingly the result of travelling gangs, which, because of the lack of internal borders, have all the space. so why is this better? who wants this? the new system should also help to prevent illegal activity, since the computer will know when someone has stayed longer than is allowed. but the illegals don't leave at all. they're not getting kicked out. we don't have a solution for that either. so why this system? mr. president, this system is not going to help us fight terrorism. it doesn't help crime either. it doesn't help against illegality. it's going to cost a lot of money. and more importantly: it is again depriving the member states of power, of power to tackle problems. so, mr president, it seems clear to me that we will vote against. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. yes, that is an interesting question. how do you lose sovereignty when there is a european law which says that member states must be members of schengen - at least the new member states, and we are also members - which says that we are not allowed to control internal borders on that basis, only our external borders, that there is now a system which dictates how that should be done and in what way, and who is concerned, and how long that should be kept, and when that is thrown away? it seems to me... this listing alone indicates that we're not talking about anything anymore. that seems to me to be a loss of sovereignty.
i am from limburg, a beautiful border province in the netherlands, sandwiched between belgium and germany. no matter which way i drive from my front door, i always run into a border. i am therefore more aware than anyone else of the enormous luxury of open borders, and i will always defend them here. but there are concerns. if we want to maintain the achievement of free movement within europe, we must jointly improve the management and administration of our external borders. we'll do that through the joint border and coast guard. we do this by checking eu citizens at the external borders. we'll do that later through etias. and today we're doing that with a big step: through the entry-exit system. we are finally bringing eu border management into the 21st century, from medieval stamps to computers and scans. i congratulate mr díaz de mera on this fine result. it is an efficient and effective way of controlling who is really entering europe and how long they want to stay. we are reducing the time it takes to cross that border, making it easier for well-intentioned travellers to come to europe, and by using fingerprints and facial scans, we are making it much harder for identity fraud to occur. recent events in europe give every reason for this. visitors benefit from it. the citizens of the european union benefit from it. everyone benefits from this.
madam president, i believe we are the first parliament in europe publicly to debate the issue of sexual harassment and intimidation. unfortunately, it is necessary. we have to talk about how we put into practice what we preach, and provide a free and safe working environment for the people who work for us and for all europeans. yes, we have a harassment committee, a complaints procedures and so on, but why have only 10 cases been brought forward since 2014? that means that the threshold is too high and that procedures alone are not enough. in recent days, after the ‘me too’ campaign, i have been getting the following question, often from men: ‘i am not so sure anymore what i can and cannot do. when do i cross the line?’ i would say it is easy. if you have a daughter, just ask yourself how you would want your daughter to be treated. that is the way you are going to treat other people. it is not just about violence, but also about sexism and sexist remarks. they are not harmless. sexist jokes are not funny, they are just sexist, and they lead to harassment and violence. i have one final comment: to be clear, women and men decide for themselves. of course, what consenting adults do between one another is not our business, but when a girl says ‘no’, it means no.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mr salvini, your country is a major exporter of tomatoes and we in the rest of europe cook with those tomatoes. i just checked it out. in a supermarket in the netherlands, a can of peeled tomatoes costs 39 cents. but it could be cheaper. a little can of tomato puree to really spice up the sauce costs 18 cents. and why am i telling you this? because last week a prosecutor in italy convicted a farmer in the south of italy of culpable homicide in the death of a migrant worker, a man from sudan, mr abdullah mohammed, who suffered a heart attack while picking tomatoes. he picked those tomatoes under terrible conditions, seven days a week, 12 hours a day, in the sun. if you know that and you know that there is no real labour inspection in agriculture in italy, and we all pay only 39 cents a can of tomatoes, then i think the real problem in combating irregular migration and smuggling is that we do not want to pay for our products, that we do not carry out the controls on them. the only way to keep those products that cheap is to exploit people. and you nod your head. i'm glad you did. but it's your profit and it's your labour inspectors who won't come to see it. if we want to do something about irregular migration, we will have to pay people fairly and increase controls. until that happens, there's a huge pull factor that won't go away.
president. - less than 3% of the migrants were granted refugee status in italy, but of 14 000 rejected migrants, only 120 were deported. without an effective policy of expulsion, people will continue to board boats with a high risk of drowning. mr president, we must prosecute people smugglers. we need to criminalize illegality. we must return all those rescued at sea immediately, and certainly not admit them into the european union. but above all, we must do more, faster and more relentlessly. the eu legislation is already getting in our way, but now this parliament has proposed last week to automatically allocate everyone who arrives to a country. such a lure call is almost malevolent. no policy will work if parliament does this kind of thing. mr. president, how many more lives can this take?
mr president, this is not the first time we have had this debate and it will not be the last. the fight against illegal migration, tackling human smuggling and protecting our external borders remains important, even though the influx has decreased sharply in recent months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but effort may be a bit of a tricky word for the applicants of this debate. it is also much more attractive to get a little angry, to criticise and, above all, to move air between brussels and strasbourg for a lot of taxpayers' money from the far right corner of parliament. but that is not good for the european citizen. improved registration of asylum seekers: you vote against it. better protection of external borders: you vote against it. travel documents for the return of illegal migrants: against. a pnr policy for our safety: against. strengthen police cooperation: against. a travel and exit system, firearms directive, eu terrorism directive: against, against, against. and you know what the worst part is? when we discuss this kind of legislation in our parliamentary meeting rooms, you generally don't even show up. either you don't really think it's important enough, or you're just too lazy to work. a little shouting along the sidelines without ever contributing anything, that's what you're very good at. but fortunately, it's a political business model that has had its best days. our citizens deserve better than that.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is good to have this debate just before the vote tomorrow. and the question is: has a toxic product turned into a medicine for the european economy? that is the question we have to ask ourselves and our voters – our public. i dare to say yes, in the realisation that any medicine can be toxic if it is taken in excess. a medicine can be toxic if it is taken in an uncontrolled manner, meaning that you have to take control. i will come back to that. i am happy to have had the debate not only now, but also on many occasions in this house. it is an extremely important topic if only because of its history. we know that the financial crisis started with toxic products – mortgages – in the usa and then almost blew up the entire system. this was a major blow to the financial sector, the economy and people’s everyday lives. i am happy that we have had this debate, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the people that worked on this, and of course the shadows, especially othmar karas – who you could say is my co-rapporteur – as well as the people from the commission and the council. i ask forgiveness for having sometimes been strong-headed and a bit stubborn, but i hope i have never been narrow-minded. the start of this discussion, which was almost two years ago, was with a proposal from the commission and also the proposal from the commission tried to draw lessons from the crisis, for example by defining clear responsibilities for issuers and investors. the issuers have to disclose information and the investors have to do due diligence. no longer can someone say ‘i didn’t know what i was selling’, or ‘i didn’t know what i was buying’. but another question we had in the debate in parliament was ‘are these all the lessons that we need to learn from a financial crisis?’ put differently – more technically – what you want is a deep and liquid market at all times, in good times and in bad times. the european parliament has added some of these lessons. firstly, an issue that is not at the core of our discussion: sustainability. we added sustainability by including characteristics of houses and cars. this also shows that we have to do this more consistently as legislators – both the commission and the parliament. i know that the commissioner is working on that, and i very much support it. more at the core of this file was the prudential framework and strong supervision, giving clear roles to the esrb and to the esma. this is important when you want to control the market. the second was transparency: data repositories now giving a role to european data warehouse. there was also a discussion on the retention rates – the skin in the game. as i learnt, through discussions in this house and outside this house, it was not just about the rate, it was about the method. there is still an important difference between a horizontal and a vertical method, because it is not about the rate, it is about the incentive. the european parliament has taken a good position by differentiating between the two, but we also know that we will have a review later. this is the part that the european parliament has to take a very close look at. finally, let me say that this is also for the supervisors. they have an important role to monitor and control this market.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you to all the contributors to this debate. it is interesting to hear that we still have a difference of opinion, and i think that these proposals – with good work from othmar karas – that we have brought together have been able to unite parliament, but not entirely. let that also be a warning that there are still some doubts that have been part of the debate. there are opportunities that are emphasised: it could be an opportunity for refinancing the european economy, especially when the policy of cheap money will end one day. securitisation will then be an important way of financing, but there are not only opportunities – there are also threats. i would like to call also on the supervisors that have been given an important role in this piece of legislation to take on the duty of closely monitoring and following the market, especially when the market starts – it is crucial that it starts in the right way, and that the market gets functioning. this is what i would like to see: if you want to develop a strong market, you also need a strong government and strong supervision. this is what i hope for, because we will see these markets start – maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow, when opportunities to finance become scarcer and securitisation becomes more attractive. finally, i would like to say that this debate will continue. we have a review, issues have been addressed in the debate, and the european parliament should follow this market closely at the appropriate times – and i am sure that we will.
on behalf of the ppe group. i also thank the commissioner for his reply to the questions put by my colleague, mrs cláudia monteiro, in the first part-session. it is a well-known fact, mr president, that the epp group has a warm heart for european aviation. we have discussed the aviation strategy here under the leadership of my colleague pavel telička and we are currently working on the bilateral aviation agreements, all to help the european aviation industry further. i think there's something to be said for that. especially when it comes to consumer protection. the commissioner said it: we have a regulation from 2009 and for a few years now it has not been applied by a major player in this field, and we regret that. this is about transparency for the consumer. this is about objective price information. but it is not just about the consumer, it is also about the travel agencies and the travel agencies. the fact that the commissioner is now announcing certain actions - yes, i should almost say, it is the usual response from dg move: we're working on it. it may take a while, but you will be informed immediately. what i do not understand is that in the meantime these airlines are not being finger-tapped. i mean, we can talk to dg move and the deputy commissioner for transport here, but we want to see action. can we not talk to the big german airline in the short term? thank you very much. oh, no, i got a minute. i think this is it, thank you.
i am the only non-iberian speaking here today, but disasters like this and all other forms are indeed a matter of european solidarity. it could be a flood, it could be a fire, it could be any number of situations. i would like to make a few critical remarks, in addition to my sympathy and also my pity for the dead. first of all: for the first time -- and i'm a little shocked by that -- you hear that there's a mixed form between climate change and what's being done by citizens. i therefore think that if we are going to provide aid - and we should of course do so - then, commissioner, we should also ask the member state to report on how it is working in that balance between prevention, between aid and recovery. you also said that we have created the possibility of releasing 95% of european funds from the european regional development fund. some of it is already in use. we can do more, there's more room. but now i also want to know how this rural policy, this rural recovery, is being done. that's not the same as providing short-term help. these are structural measures to make the countryside safe for people again, and we must reclaim them. not just offer, but also, as it were, strike a balance. secondly, you say that a plan has been submitted for the first fires - we discussed that here. now they're definitely going over that threshold. please deal with that quickly and get it over with as soon as possible. i thank you.
for the enf group we are talking today about the spending of billions of euros in taxpayers' money. and to be able to judge that, you actually need experience of making real money in business or as an entrepreneur, because then you know what the pressure of taxation is. the colleagues here have mainly experience of getting money from public or semi-public relations. so what i would like to advise the colleagues: i would like to ask you to give your opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like once again to thank the rapporteur, ms mihaylova, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their preparatory work and their support during the process. i would also like to thank honourable members for their support for our initiative. i am convinced that the proposal will help us in producing the necessary evidence to come to fact-based decisions in the framework of regional development. it will certainly contribute to understanding common patterns in the socio-economic situation of the different kinds of regions.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission warmly welcomes the compromise reached by the co-legislators on this file in june 2017. i would personally like to warmly thank the rapporteur ms meissner, and ms boylan and the shadow rapporteurs who contributed to such constructive cooperation in reaching an agreement. inland waterway transport is a sector with long traditions and european know-how. it is essential to maintain this high level of professionalism for future generations too. we need to face the challenges of an ageing workforce. this legislation will bring significant benefits in addressing the labour shortage in inland waterways transport by facilitating labour mobility. crew members will be able to exercise their profession in a cross-border environment more easily because union certificates of qualifications will be recognised on all inland waterways throughout the union. this includes: benefits, as now the rules will apply to all the crew members and not only boat masters as currently; and further harmonisation within the union, as the rhine certificates will be issued in accordance with the same requirements as those set by the future directive. at the same time, the new rules also take account of the different characteristics of eu countries in order to avoid disproportionate administrative burdens. last but not least, the recognition will be built on a modern, competence-based system that will increase safety and improve the attractiveness of the profession. amendments from the european parliament and the negotiations brought many useful clarifications to the commission’s proposal and a number of valuable additional competence requirements. in addition, other modifications can be considered as balanced compromises preserving the objectives of the proposal. this legislation represents clear progress in comparison to the situation today and shows that the eu can deliver for small businesses, people and jobs. this move forward is also part of a bigger picture in the context of decarbonisation. inland waterway transport already transports 500 million tonnes of cargo and provides 1.36 million river-cruise trips. the sector will be strengthened through innovation and the emergence of a healthy and dynamic business environment. this will provide great benefits for the 10 000 companies, smes and micro-enterprises already operating in europe, representing over 42 000 jobs in freight and passenger transport. at the same time, it will also lay the groundwork for future generations and the creation of jobs and growth in the sector.
i would like to begin by announcing that i am replacing my colleague renaud muselier. he is not here tonight and on his behalf i would like to thank mrs meisner very much for the work she has done on this dossier. it seemed very simple at first, but especially when the countries without inland waterways started to interfere, mrs meisner had to find a compromise with the shadow rapporteurs. i agree with mrs bulc: we have a wonderful sector here at the head, but with huge staff shortages and a lot of opportunities. it is a very good thing that dutch people can sail in germany, germans in the netherlands and perhaps poles in the netherlands and vice versa. that is the internal market we want to see and uniform vocational qualifications are the future for our young people. a compromise was finally reached: if you do not have inland navigation, you do not have to transpose the directive, but if you do have inland navigation and you have not transposed it, you do have to recognise the diploma from the other country. it is a bit of a european compromise, but i agree with mrs bulc: we can move on and we'll move on.
on behalf of the ecr group. first of all, a heartfelt thank you to the family for all the work and all the efforts. we have achieved a good result and i think also with a new piece of legislation that is good for european shipping and for dutch inland waterway transport. the commissioner said it: there is a need for more mobility. we need more people and in this way we can promote the inflow and throughflow into the inland waterway sector of qualified people. competence, as the commissioner rightly pointed out, is what matters now. of course, the degree and the grades, that still counts, but it's mainly about what skills a person brings. this approach also encourages the entry of people who have not been raised in inland navigation from a young age, and in this way we have opportunities both for those who are newcomers and for those who already want to move up in the sector, so more opportunities for qualified people. i have been a shadow rapporteur - and the rapporteur has already referred to this - and i have also made a real effort to ensure that the river committees are properly involved, because the people on the river committees are those who have the knowledge of the situation, who know what is going on and also know what needs to be asked. but i think that the involvement of the river committees and the cesni committee is now guaranteed and that really guarantees expert input. finally , i am very glad that a long-standing wish, at least my own, is being fulfilled, namely to be able to speak basic english. we've got to get that in now, because in the shipping industry, we already have something called sea speak, and now we're going to have river speak. i think that is an essential step forward for safe inland navigation. in short, i wholeheartedly support this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his clear statement. i think she has made it very clear in the last six minutes what we have to do and i agree with her very much that dieter koch has delivered a good report and the defence by marcus ferber was excellent as usual. road safety is an underestimated problem in the european union and the personal mistakes are known to all of us. you yourself are from italy and we know that there are many problems with road safety in that country too. today we are looking at the technical side and we are doing so in preparation for the new general safety regulation as it relates to vehicles. we can do a lot in that area. the technical possibilities are almost limitless with sensors, with sidelights, with beeper systems, and so on. one point, however, deserves special attention: telephone calls, using a laptop, using modern means of communication while driving. you see the number of accidents on that plane increasing. i hope that the european commission will also come up with adequate and very innovative measures in this respect, because we cannot afford these road deaths.
"hope for a miracle the future of christian presence in iraq". that is the telling title of a recent publication by german expert dr. otmar oehring. he will speak for us in brussels next week. from a human standpoint, the future of the centuries-old christian communities in the two-stream country seems to be bleak. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. sadly, for example, returning christians in the assyrian town of teleskof had to leave their recently restored homes again, with an unknown destination. another major obstacle to the return of iraqi christians to the nineveh plain today is the intimidation of neighboring iran and the iraqi shiite militia allied with tehran. is the european union, is the high representative aware of this new expulsion, expulsion, of iraqi christians? i would like to know what the eu can do to protect and maintain the christian presence in iraq. a concrete eu action programme is really necessary, as the honourable members have already shown, because then we will be truly proud and stand up for our christian values.
as the rapporteur for the anti-money laundering law, i have some bad news. this afternoon the eighth round of negotiations with the member states will take place and it should have been the last round, but it is not. the paradise papers once again show that corporations, criminals and the super rich use all sorts of constructs to remain invisible to our tax authorities. we can do something about that by shining sunlight into all the dark corners. we want owners of companies and trusts to be found in public registers, but the member states do not want to negotiate with us. they don't have a mandate for this afternoon. i can only conclude that there are several capitals that are happy with these dark corners and that like to keep things as they are, and that is a shame. for luxleaks, panamaleaks, the paradise papers, and we are doing nothing.
even bono, the hero of my childhood, is in the paradise papers. even bono is a good one. so we don't have to rely on a moral backsliding of the rich and the big corporations of this earth. we'll have to do it ourselves, the tax evasion approach. it starts by recognizing that there are modern pirates who are entering countries, looting coffers outside of europe, but also within europe. the netherlands, malta, luxembourg, ireland, we know it, but what are we doing about it? it is impossible for us to work together in europe and yet try to get closer to each other. that is why a european approach is very much needed, such as a single european consolidated corporate tax. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. "sometimes you can't make it on your own", bono sings. the only way to tackle tax evasion is to work together. europe and the netherlands must take this to heart.
mr president, this debate could not be more timely. while the eu continues, and we should pursue an ambitious trade agenda with global rules, other parts of the world are also moving on. last saturday, 11 countries agreed, in principle, to move ahead with the trans-pacific partnership, without the us. the trump administration seems to have no desire to advance a multilateral trading system either – how quickly times can change. the blocking of judges on the world trade organization’s (wto) appellate body is also a troubling case in point. more than ever, european leadership is needed to safeguard international trade based on rules. only by thinking globally, but also joining forces with like-minded partners, can we advance the multilateral trading agenda. an agenda including modern 21st century principles, such as services and digital trade, but first and foremost an agenda that sets high standards and is based on the values that we here in europe cherish.
first of all, i would like to thank both rapporteurs, mr andrikienė and mr fleckenstein, for their sound and inspiring recommendations for a vital eastern partnership. i also see their line well supported by the recommendations just published by a working group of experts from france, germany and poland, the so-called genshagener papiere. these experts rightly emphasize, and we see this in the report of our parliament, on the eu implementation of the eastern partnership, 'a shift from a government-centred policy to a citizen-centred policy'. in other words: brussels is creating visible and tangible support among the populations of the countries concerned. for example, give more support to small and mediumsized enterprises, the prime catalyst for reform and the growth nucleus of a strong middle class. two things were particularly interesting in these recommendations. would it not be a good idea to establish an eastern partnership university in the region to give promising young people a boost to european integration? and finally, think about the psychological effects of these unresolved territorial conflicts. there too, a post-conflict trauma healing centre of european origin would be a good fit.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, while finding a solution and a new method of calculating dumping was very urgent, finding a compromise was not easy. we worked on a new way to assess trade distortions in third countries that would stand up before the world trade organization, because if we want others to play by the rules we are strongest and most credible when we lead by example. protectionism is not an answer to the challenges we face either. the agreement on anti-dumping methodology that we reached will ensure that our trade defence instruments are modernised. this is a general task that requires broader updates to the eu’s rules and methods. i hope that, on the question of broader trade defence instruments, we will soon achieve an updated proposal and reach the negotiation stage. while we base our trade on values, it is important to set the highest possible global standards. i therefore also welcome the fact that the eu will be the first international protagonist to take into account labour and environmental standards when looking at systematic trade distortions. as we update our trade tools, we have no time to lose to modernise them because the world is not waiting for us to finish our work. nor can we hold our new trade defence methods hostage, as some in this house had suggested, so i look forward to voting tomorrow, with no further delays.
"the noose is hanging around our necks because of cheap steel from china", cried a steel worker from tata steel in ijmuiden. there wasn't much to argue with. tata steel ijmuiden is a modern, innovative steel company with 9 000 employees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind. that is why i called on the european commissioner last year to take strong, effective anti-dumping measures, and here we are: the eu is finally fighting against dumping and i am glad that european companies will no longer have to provide additional evidence that their non-european competitors are dumping. i am also glad that trade partners will soon be required to comply with labour and environmental standards. and i am glad that european trade unions will soon have the opportunity to protect their trade with their advice. now let's hope it comes in time for the tata employees in ijmuiden.
the eu-au summit is officially about youth. but it's really about migration, of course, and african leaders know that. i think they will receive our prime ministers with some skepticism on their arrival in abidjan. are we coming as partners, are macron, merkel and rutte coming with their domestic agenda or are they really willing to help the youth of africa? poverty is not something that can be tackled in a few years, and tackling the root causes of migration takes a lot of time: a whole generation, at least. africa is facing a huge demographic challenge. many young people are looking for work and a better life, and we must and can help them. but then we must be prepared to commit ourselves for a long time to the developments on that continent, then we must act more fairly, invest more fairly and not spend our development money on closing borders but on fighting poverty. then we are real partners and in abidjan we also talk about friend to friend who is forward-looking. if we don't, we're going to have a problem.
nature, people and the economy. this important combination is what the european commission's action plan and the reality of the situation are all about. a flexible approach to implementation helps to avoid unnecessary conflicts and problems between conservationists, governments, farmers, landowners and fishermen. by developing improved guidelines with regulations and best practices, the commission should provide effective support for implementation by provinces and local authorities. so that means financial compensation. land owners should also be able to receive market-based compensation for green and blue ecosystem services for nature, landscape and water. when it comes to the explosive growth of geese and the cormorant that threaten other waterfowl and rare fish species, wildlife management is required. the same goes for the wolf. the real danger of wolf-dog hybrids must be countered by consistent control by hunters: the grazing of livestock and the safety of our citizens come first. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. first of all, let us work on improving implementation within and coherence between natura 2000 sites, also across borders, as the council and the commission also want, and let us get on with it first.
the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. somewhere in the debate, someone comes along and says that there are two sides to every story. that it's a political game. that one country is being addressed and the other is not. that the ruling party does have a majority in parliament and that all decisions are democratic. i would also like to point out that the amendments to the constitution, the composition of the supreme court or the financing of newspapers in another member state are regulated in exactly the same way. and then somebody gets really angry, because the people and the country are not being treated well. president, that is you-bags and you-bags killing the debate. venting your concerns about laws a government is passing is not the same as attacking a population. the important thing is not to lump the people, the country, the government and the party together. because the majority exists at the mercy of the minority. and they are also members of the population, people with rights and needs. the way to dismantle you-bags is to show that we embrace them, that we are critical ourselves, that we are willing to point out the flaws in our own system and that we do not turn a blind eye to abuses in any european country. so today we are debating the actions of the polish government and not the country or the people. the greens see a trend of shrinking civil liberties. legislation that restricts the legal certainty of citizens is being rushed through the polish parliament. the independence of the constitutional court is undermined. the logging ban in the białowieża forest is being ignored. women's right to self-determination is on the line. refugees at the border are being pushed back to belarus and journalists are having a hard time, very hard. there is therefore ample reason for this parliament to examine whether the rule of law is being systematically eroded. the greens therefore think it is very sensible that this parliament should be prepared to undertake such an inquiry.
mr president, i note that mr legutko is afraid to answer any questions – he just made his statement and left, and that is symptomatic. in a democracy, you have debate: you have dialogue, questions and answers and an exchange of positions, and he just gives a monologue and leaves. that is called cowardice. what i did not hear in his totally irrational seven-minute rant was one single word of condemnation of the fascist march and the fascist slogans of last weekend. it was just a rant, and i have not heard where he stands. i would also like to hear about the rest of the ecr group, because by not speaking out they are tacitly agreeing with the position of the pis government. think about it: do you want to distance yourself from this, or do you want to side with a government that does not condemn fascists and that is restricting the freedom of other ngos? think very carefully about where you stand. the government speakers represent – or claim to represent – the polish people, as if there is only one opinion and one truth. do you know what that is called? absolutism. this is an authoritarian government that does not respect pluralism and does not respect the opinions of others. we know better, because we have seen the thousands who took to the streets to protest against the government – thousands of very courageous people, many courageous women – who spoke out against the government and for pluralism, for democracy, and for civil society. so, mr legutko – who is not here – if you are asking for respect, then why do you not respect others? you have no respect for women’s rights, no respect for lgbti people, no respect for people who do not share your religion, and no respect for people who do not share your opinion. what i find very striking is how much the agenda of the pis government looks like the agenda of mr putin. they are always saying ‘we don’t like the russians’, but their agenda is identical to that of mr putin. (applause)finally, i would like to say that this debate is not about poland; it is about the rule of law. i welcome the words of the council, but now we need some action. we need a real, broad mechanism that applies to all the member states and that does not leave it to the member states to judge themselves. we need a broad, independent mechanism, as has been proposed by the european parliament. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from mr złotowski under rule 162(8))
poland has democratically introduced a number of legislative amendments and mr timmermans, vice-president of the european commission, condemns these legislative amendments and thus indirectly condemns polish democracy. meanwhile, spain throws an elected regional government in jail. mr timmermans is in favour of spain and therefore in favour of the spanish version of democracy. mr timmermans has just said that the european judicial network considers the independence of judges to be of the utmost importance. but what mr timmermans is not saying is that the same organisation also says that judges in spain are much less independent than judges in poland. in spain, judges are regularly specifically selected and pressured to deliver the desired verdict. why does mr timmermans not consider that to be a violation of european values? president, poland is a functioning democracy. if the voters want it differently, they can choose differently next time. that seems to me to be much better than mr timmermans dictating the law to everyone here.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his words. commissioner, i much agree with you and i am grateful to the commission for the work it has been doing in this area. i would also like to extend my gratitude and my respect to the people on the greek islands who have shown immense responsibility and humanity in meeting the refugee crisis, and i think others should take an example from that. commissioner dimitris avramopoulos said we cannot have a repetition of last year, and yet we seem to be having that repetition. the point is here: we do not have a technical, practical problem; it is not that people are stuck on the islands because there no boats and planes. it is the direct result of political decisions taken by the national governments. i cannot hold the estonian presidency responsible for all the member states, but it is an absolute disgrace that on the richest continent in the world, we are worried about whether people are going to make it through winter. i cannot remember the exact figures, you mentioned all sorts of figures, but we are talking about tens of thousands of people. are we seriously saying that there is a practical problem for 500 million citizens in the european union to somehow provide decent shelter to a few thousand people? honestly? it is an absolute disgrace! all the talks about deals with unsavoury regimes – that is just escapism, distracting from what should really be done. there has been a very decent proposal by the commission sitting on the desk of the council for a year and a half. parliament has done its homework. yes, we represent different political views in this house too, it is difficult. but you know what? in the treaties, there is no longer the unanimity rule. if the council is pretending that it can only decide when there is unanimity, it is actually violating the treaties. i suggest that the council gets on with it and that we get this asylum and migration policy up and running as soon as possible, and make sure that the most civilised and prosperous continent in the world is actually going to give civilised and dignified shelter to people in need.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. this isn't about whether there are enough beds or blankets. this is about something else. the greek government is letting refugees on those islands because it's afraid of a vacuuming operation. there are plenty of shelters on the mainland. the turkish government says: under the turkey deal, we only take back people who are on the greek islands, not those on the mainland. the other member states think: that's actually a good thing, because then we don't have to relocate so many people. the fact that there are 12 000 refugees and migrants stranded on the greek islands, while there is only room for 5 000, does not have to remain that way. get these people to the mainland and then put them in with other member states. but that's not gonna happen. and what is the real european policy? the real european policy for this winter is to hope for a warm christmas. mrs zimmer and mrs in 't veld are right, but the political question must be asked. we can't keep the turkey deal the way it is. we cannot continue to make deals of this kind with other countries. we cannot blame the greeks alone. we have to take responsibility for ourselves. but to abandon the greek islands in this way is certainly not possible.
i think it is an understatement, mr president, that there are different views in this parliament on the eu-turkey agreements. at the same time, i am sure we can all agree that implementation is crucial, no matter which side you are on in this debate. i can only conclude today that the implementation of the agreement leaves much to be desired, especially as regards the situation in the greek islands. more people are arriving than leaving every day, and so there are many more people arriving at the hotspots than were ever intended. this has all kinds of consequences for hygiene and housing and leads to mutual tensions. we all have those images of last winter on our retinas, of pitiful conditions for very vulnerable people. citizens all over europe saw these images and were shocked. how can we explain to them that there is money and resources available, that there are hotel rooms to rent, that there are prefabricated houses to build, that there are sufficient supplies of blankets, stoves and so on, but that somehow we are not able to provide a warm place in winter for 15 000 people with all those resources? so where exactly is it going wrong, and what are we going to do about it to prevent that? i welcome the commitments of the council and the commission that all means and instruments will be used to avoid a repetition of last year. but parliament will hold them to those commitments. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
blue-card answer. – mr president, of course we need a long—term solution, and if i remember correctly there wasn’t even much of a plan last year, but what i wonder most of all is how it can be that we have still such a massive backlog, for instance, in the appeal procedures in greece. if we want to have these kinds of policies working, we need to do something about that. how can it be that, as the commissioner explained here, we have given eur 1.3 billion in aid in order to fix the solutions for these people, but not much has happened yet. i think these are the crucial questions that need to be answered in order to come to that long-term solution. these are the basic conditions that we need to fulfil in order to have a proper solution and, yes, relocation. all these things are important, but it begins with having the power to do the things that we have agreed so far.
for the enf group the bolshevik coup brought to power a hideous socialist regime that persecuted critics. civilians spied on each other, children betrayed their parents, husbands betrayed each other. it set up labor camps and torture centers. it cost the lives of 22 million people, according to a conservative estimate. communism, marxism, socialism, they're all the same strain, and the latest strain is called globalism. globalism, too, is breaking communities into fearful individuals, destroying the cohesion of families and nations, destroying identity and identity. it hates christianity, buddhism and other world views that strengthen the social bond between people. it hates dissent. it controls the media and education, it makes journalism and schools into propaganda machines. this european union is completely in the hands of globalists, neo-marxists. look at the friends of this eu: turkey, china, saudi arabia, iran, countries with totalitarian regimes. globalism is embracing totalitarian islam and letting its millions of followers into the eu. and then look at the enemies of the eu: the trump administration, russia, hungary and poland, where governments are trying to defend their country's christian identity, or the united kingdom, which is explicitly turning against the totalitarian power of the eu. but the greatest enemy of this eu is not the terrorists who commit monstrous attacks in our cities. no, it is the critics of the eu who are branded as populists, as far rightists, as fascists and xenophobes. yes, the legacy of the bolsheviks is alive and well. here in this eu a totalitarian regime is being completed. fortunately, there is hope. more and more citizens - britons, poles, hungarians, sicilians - are rising up against this eu. so, citizens of the eu: get up and walk away from this oppressive elite, walk away from these puppet parties.
i would like to congratulate both commissioners on the presentation of the second mobility package. you know i think it's too late. we should have had it sooner. but it was a difficult delivery, and i'm glad it's here. we'll see what we can do before the election. the emissions part of this package in particular has received a lot of attention in the european press and would not be ambitious enough. the ngos have been criticized many times. i note that the car industry and the member states are fairly calm. the question is therefore whether the commission has struck the right balance. the european people's party, to which i belong, is at least a balance. emission reduction and electrification are very important, but we also want to stick to a technology-neutral approach. i am not afraid to say that the interests of industry, workers and consumers should play a major role here. we will have to make up for this in the coming months and next year with the aim of reducing emissions. the directive on the bus and coach market is also of great importance. it has received little attention in the press, but this is an industry with a lot of passengers and a lot of safety issues. finally, i would like to stress the importance of combined transport, a long-standing desire of the european commission and the european parliament. this is a great future, a great job, and it can be very clean. i therefore ask that these two dossiers also receive the political attention they deserve.
mr president, i fully support the commission's intention to make transport greener. that's what's important. it is also important to invest in alternative fuels. we must strive to be able to drive electrically from amsterdam via strasbourg to naples, for example. i believe that there are also instruments, such as the ten-t programme, to support this from the eu. i just think that the ambitions should be a little bit more firm when it comes to reducing emissions. new cars and vans must be at least 30% cleaner in 2030 than in 2021. but that ambition would be stronger for me. the new dutch government, of which my party is also a member, has said that by 2030 all new cars must be zero-emission. i would like to see this ambition reflected in europe. so, you know, you just put it down a little tighter and make that 30% at least 50%.
the future of our planet is at stake, because the climate is changing. we need to reduce transport emissions, while the demand for transport and mobility is only increasing. so the challenge is very, very big to make our mobility sustainable. but it also opens up new economic opportunities. however, transport is not sustainable simply by publishing new proposals on paper. transport becomes sustainable through rapid decision-making on these proposals and good implementation in practice. climate change is not going to wait until we in this parliament, perhaps months from now, agree on which parliamentary committee is going to be dealing with what. the outside world expects us to do our work quickly and ambitiously. so let us not waste time in slandering each other, because our public health, our climate, our mobility issue and also our industry demand action now.
the european union has strong environmental legislation, based on the precautionary principle. our businessmen, farmers, game managers, governments and citizens are held to the strictest standards. this evaluation shows that implementation by eu member states, provinces, regions and local authorities varies widely. unfortunately, one member state is playing around with environmental legislation and the other member state is unnecessarily strict on certain issues, while the same member state is playing around with other environmental legislation. i regret that water quality and drug residues in the water are not given sufficient attention in this report. i also miss the commitment of landowners and provinces to the improved implementation of natura 2000. farmers are being forced to relocate because of nitrogen deposits in nature reserves, and centuries-old family farms are being relocated to twente. but how do we deal with other sectors? how do member states like the netherlands deal with big money interests, with oil and gas extraction? that's what i want to talk about. in the region of twente in overijssel, polluted wastewater from oil production is discharged under drinking water and natura 2000 areas. this is the world upside down. your response to my written questions last year was clear. article 12 of the waste directive requires member states to ensure that such discharges (waste disposal operations) do not endanger human health and do not pose a risk to soil and water. however, for years the dutch petroleum company and the government have refused to allow wastewater to be treated before discharging into the ground of vulnerable water and nature reserves. this is despite the fact that good purification techniques exist for this purpose. it is therefore high time that the european commission intervened proactively in the netherlands, with all the legal means at its disposal, in the interests of our inhabitants, our environment and certainly also the farmers who are doing a great deal of good work there. thank you, sir.
the social summit will take place in gothenburg on friday. a summit which will hopefully be remembered as one of the landmarks in which we say goodbye to an eu that is all about markets and currency. this adage has led to an increase in inequality between europeans both within and between member states. i would therefore like to pay tribute to my colleague, mr lópez. he is also responsible for putting inequality among europeans on our agenda. i have been bothered for years by the fact that youth unemployment is skyrocketing in a number of member states. a lost second generation is on the horizon. i can fully support the extension of the funding to combat this, as lópez wants. the same applies to his call for a limitation of zero-hour contracts, because in my view this creates income insecurity and thus increases inequality. his call for collective bargaining to be a genuine eu law is unfortunately necessary given all the uncertainties in employment contracts. the eu is at a crossroads. we must turn towards a social europe. a summit does not reduce unemployment, raise wages or fight poverty. this calls for concrete action!
it is very good that this item is on the agenda tonight, commissioner. we are now years past the boycott and unfortunately there is still no solution. the effects on the sector are still being felt. let me give you an example of tomatoes. the sector in my country, the netherlands, indicates that the price formation of tomatoes is still poor, especially in the summer months, the very months in which exports to russia were previously made. i therefore strongly urge the commissioner to continue to work towards reopening the russian market. i really want to emphasize that. commissioner hogan: what is it? you are working to reopen the russian market. good luck with that.
of course, there is nothing wrong with good relations with new zealand. it's a beautiful country, with beautiful people and beautiful ideas. but i would like to work with new zealand in a way that is really in the service of sustainability, climate and workers' rights. this partnership agreement is a first step towards a new free trade agreement. so that means more trade, more transportation, more fuel costs and more emissions. that's not good for the climate. the bonn climate conference teaches us that we are not even close to the targets we set ourselves in paris. the intention to go beyond the scope of the trade in services agreement (tisa) in these agreements with australia and new zealand also threatens the labour rights and job security of european workers. and what do all these combined free trade agreements mean for the agricultural sector? can the commissioner clarify that? the trade agreements concluded by the european union are based on the convergence of regulations. that means we lose control of our rules. this is done through explicit agreements on this, but also through a much more invisible way of working, namely through the regulatory cooperation body. that makes it invisible and uncontrollable for a representative of the people to see how our rules exactly converge. the fact that new zealand just agreed to the trans-pacific partnership (tpp) doesn't make it any better. there are big differences between the rules around the world, and the countries of europe are pretty much alone at the top. if we start converging with the whole world, we know pretty well that we're going to lose our standards. i have nothing against new zealand, but i have something against this kind of trade agreement. it's your friends you shouldn't make these kind of arrangements with. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, mohamed zine al-abidine wrote an article about alleged corruption by the president of sudan, mr al-bashir, who of course is accused of many worse crimes including the gravest ones – crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes – but he is avoiding facing trial. al-abidine did what a journalist is supposed to do – shed light on those in power – but is now being sentenced to five years as one of many critics that are silenced. we call on the sudanese authorities to review these outrageous charges and to respect all people’s rights. the government should at least adhere to its own commitments under the cotonou agreement, but also to the declaration on media freedom in the arab world. we in the eu should step up our efforts to make sure that people’s rights are respected in sudan, including the freedom of expression online and offline. i would suggest that by only focusing on managing migration we are not doing that, we are not prioritising respect for human rights. in fact we may well give people a good excuse to repress and to keep people down. i think that is the wrong development also from our side.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the attacks in mogadishu on 14 and 28 october resulted in unprecedented numbers of innocent people killed. i wish to convey my condolences to the victims’ families and loved ones, and actually, to all somalis. i am glad the eu offered emergency response quickly and hope that there will be more efforts by the international community to continue to build resilience and address structural problems. this should include meeting the needs of the 400 000 children who are suffering from malnutrition. access to aid organisations should be granted. it is important to see the connection between the different elements that can lead to the recruitment of people to terrorist organisations. we must also acknowledge that terrorism is a global problem and needs to be addressed in unity. i think it is a shared responsibility of the international community and i hope it will be met by all.
madam president, we all know that political debates can sometimes get very heated and emotional, but i have to say that i was very shocked, even having been in politics for some time, to see the images of a kind of mock hanging of six of our polish colleagues on the internet. i am very pleased that president tajani reacted immediately, and has approached the polish government and asked it to secure the safety of our six colleagues. the prime minister of poland has condemned the action. however, in the same breath, she immediately said ‘oh, but look at the behaviour of your meps and how they are making slanderous statements about poland’. as a matter of fact, her party friend and vice-president of this house has made similar comments about his colleagues, including myself. now there is freedom of speech for everybody, but i would hope that we have a little bit of respect for each other and that president tajani will press the polish government to not just secure the physical integrity of our polish colleagues but also to ensure freedom of speech, even when we are saying things that they don’t like.
today we are discussing the 2018 eu budget again. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. supported by the other euro-philists in this house, he is showing their true intentions. so nothing economical about taxpayers' money, instead introducing a european tax and abandoning the 1% rule of gross national income. we believe that taxation is an exclusive competence of the nation states and that the sovereignty of the states must also be respected by the president of the european parliament. we know this as the principle of subsidiarity, which the left-wing elite here, if it seems to suit them, also dislike. given the limited mandate of the european union, we see opportunities to reduce the eu's huge budget considerably, for example by cutting internal organisation, huge salaries, ridiculous candy prices and the travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg. we do not believe, as does the president of the european parliament, that an extra eur 140 billion will put an end to problems such as the storming of europe's borders by fortune-seekers. i also wonder where the president of this parliament gets the legitimacy to advocate the doubling of the budget and the raising of european taxes. did he have a mandate from a majority of this parliament? who was he speaking for? at least not on behalf of our group!
i am glad that the european parliament's position to further increase the 2018 budget has not succeeded. we need to look much more critically at the expenditure of the european union here in the european parliament. we must ensure that the money is spent well and that the citizen pays as little tax as possible. not all the money that the european union receives from taxpayers is, by definition, actually spent. i therefore propose a european 'salmon standard': the revenue should no longer determine the expenditure. the european union must take care of any setbacks it may encounter. if more money is spent on one side, there will be cuts elsewhere. i hope that this system will be applied in the new multiannual financial framework. clearer priorities will have to be set, especially when the budget is being reduced as a result of brexit.
the price of the energy union is high, but only for the citizen. he's paying for it. on the one hand, its political influence is being eroded as the choice of energy sources is being given to the european union, which is also contrary to article 194 of the treaty. on the other hand, he also pays a higher price for energy than he would in a truly free energy market. the commission reports successes such as growth and investment, but the citizen simply pays for it with his tax dollars. where the commission speaks of 'correct price signals in the energy market', the dutch citizen sees what public intervention in energy means in practice. in the netherlands, the energy tax is increased from eur 800 to eur 1000 per year per household. because without subsidies, windmills don't work. where, mr president, is the so-called cheap or cheaper renewable energy? so it is practically unaffordable. the energy union is not about making wise choices, about independence or about prosperity, but about centralization of power.
on behalf of the epp group and as coordinator in the regi committee, i would like to express my sympathy with the victims and make a few comments on this effort. we heard it: it was about special weather conditions, which only happen once in a while. i can tell you this: i'm from the netherlands, and large parts of the country are below sea level. we have a risk profile of once in 10,000 years. that's how high our dikes are. how can this be the case in greece? the extent to which the beds are actually built up is not checked, etc. we need to move towards a european standard, towards a common european risk profile. what the colleagues here are saying seems so strange to me. two suggestions. the first is to show solidarity and to be flexible in dealing with the limits of the solidarity fund. that is why i ask the commissioner: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to support greece actively in applying the rules which we have recently supplemented in parliament? secondly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, you can't stop a thunderstorm, but you can make sure the water gets out. i would like to hear your answer to that.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the war in yemen is leading to unprecedented humanitarian suffering. let there be no mistake; these problems and this suffering are man—made. the most respected international organisations are crystal clear. i quote: ‘the largest food security emergency in the world’, says the un food and agriculture organization; ‘130 children dying every day’, save the children; ‘half of all health facilities closed due to damage, destruction or lack of funds’, world health organization; and ‘nearly 900 000 cases of cholera’, office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (ocha). there are 20.7 million yemenis who require assistance and, as if that is not cruel enough and bad enough, the saudi-led coalition, as well as rebels, are blocking land, air and sea borders and access for lifesaving deliveries to people in need. even if some of these blockades are lifted now, this in no way compensates for the devastating choice of blocking in the first place. aid should never become a weapon of war. conventional weapons of war, including cluster bombs, have been used and are causing civilian deaths on top of the indiscriminate airstrikes that continue to kill. we call for an urgent end to the violence and urge the high representative to come up with an eu strategy towards yemen. key elements of such an eu strategy should be: to engage the saudi and iranian sides, to engage in ending the violence and to support the un-led negotiations. of course, airstrikes and the killing of civilians should stop, as well as all blockades, so that lifesaving aid can continue to reach people. we also should have eu funding for accountability mechanisms that must hold violators of international law and those who commit crimes against humanity to account. for the third time now, we in parliament call for an eu-wide weapons embargo on saudi arabia. the houthi rebels are already under an embargo.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after months, if not years, of heated debate on how to ensure rules-based trade with the united states, it has gone awfully silent, even on the investment protection question, also known as isds (investor-state dispute settlement). still i’m happy, commissioner malmström, that you are not retreating and that you are continuing to address the concerns that have been voiced by this house throughout the various debates on rules-based trade. some key points that we have expressed concerns about are: the need for more transparency, the need for an appeals mechanism, and also the risk of conflicts of interest for adjudicators or arbitration judges. and it seems, from your presentation, that the multilateral investment court system would actually address these main concerns and could replace the controversial isds mechanism. so our group is very encouraged by these proposed reforms, which are far-reaching. besides the updates that you gave, it would be good to hear a little more about the specific needs of smes – which have always been a priority for our group – and also what would happen to existing intra-eu bilateral investment treaties that are still in place. that has been perhaps a parallel concern, but it would be good to know a little bit more about where that is going. and i am sure we will hear more details of the proposed organisational nature, the set-up and operation, in order to have a better sense of how that would go. so thank you for these first steps: they are going in the right direction according to our group. we look forward to continuing the discussion about these important reforms.
150 000 people in 2014 said that isds is totally unacceptable to them. the mic was intended to replace isds. and it's true, compared to isds, the mic has some improvements. but there are still very big objections. the mic is still a separate legal process through which foreign investors can claim millions or even billions from governments that are doing nothing but implementing a democratic decision. there are no requirements for those investors and the system is not accessible to third parties. moreover, no examination of national laws or international conventions is carried out. i cannot agree with such a multilateral court for settling investment disputes. so my question is: are you prepared to impose on investors obligations arising from un conventions, ilo standards and the paris climate agreement, for example? are you prepared to open up the mic to states and third parties like unions, so they can sue investors? are you prepared to make exhaustion of national jurisdiction a condition for access to the mic? and finally , are you prepared to wait for the european court of justice to rule on the compatibility of the investment court system with european law?
in writing. in the eu, we do not need private courts to decide disputes between companies and governments. not only in the european parliament are many of those who share that view, but also in all the europeans who have voiced their opposition to isds. despite the fact that isds is now giving way to the multilateral court for the settlement of investment disputes, it is no reason for me to be less critical. yes, there are improvements over isds. however, i believe that we still have a lot of work to do in terms of transparency and fair dispute settlement. i can therefore endorse the questions put by my colleague, mr bernd lange. in order to achieve transparent and fair dispute settlement between companies and public authorities, i believe it is important that we do not compromise our standards and values. this means, for example, respect for un conventions and endorsement of ilo conventions. people are still concerned about the shadows that seem to accompany such courts. these concerns can only be removed if not only businesses but also citizens, trade unions and environmental organisations can rely on fair trade practices.
mr president, this is an important piece of the puzzle. we are trying to establish, or what we are trying to work on, is the principle that if you take risk, you cannot shift the cost somewhere else. bankers take risk; they cannot just catch a return but they need also to carry the cost. that does indeed mean that we aim for a bail-in and not for a bailout, most certainly not by taxpayers. that is a principle, that is clear, but that requires work and i am very pleased to see this proposal and the good work. i would like to thank mr gunnar hökmark and the shadow rapporteurs for their work because what we need is a very clear debt hierarchy. this requires amending the legislation. i am pleased to see that we have taken a step forward; further steps need to be taken forward. this is also important because we need protection for investors. there should be no misunderstanding about which is senior, which is non—senior, and we have seen this in several countries. we need to take further steps, no doubt, because i am still convinced that we should not bet on one horse, not just on the bail-in, but also look at own capital, at the leverage ratio of our countries, including the netherlands where the leverage ratio is still very low, and you could say a pre-crisis ratio. so, once again, this is a step forward and we need to take further steps.
mr president, i am pleased that today we will vote on our report on the implementation of the european disability strategy. my compliments to colleague stevens because it is an important report and it shows that we are serious about equal treatment in europe, that we do not distinguish between types of discrimination because we must abandon all types. i would not be speaking here today if i didn’t think that more can be done. i want to stress two things in particular. firstly, it is indeed high time that the council unblocked the negotiation on the european disability act, and i do hope this will be the case next week. this must be a strong act because, besides persons with disabilities, it will also need to cover people with functional limitations. the second thing i want to stress is that in the view of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats of the european parliament, disability benefit should not be made conditional upon being employed or not. as it stands, there are too many cases where disabled people cannot afford to take a job because it will actually make their financial situation worse. employment should not mean the loss of vital benefits which disabled people now often depend upon. therefore i would say that today’s vote therefore marks the end of the report but by no means will it end our efforts for disabled people in the future.
i would also like to thank all those involved for the result achieved. this is a good step towards simplification and, i hope, a reduction in the administrative burden on farmers. i am particularly pleased that my amendments have been incorporated in the text. first, the support for young farmers. young farmers will receive top-up support for the full five years. the best way for any young farmer to benefit from this is to use it when he needs it most. secondly, my amendment is about spelling. i am glad that spelt will soon be counting in all cases for crop diversification. for some farmers, for example those on heavy clay soils, this is an important option. that 's the bottom line . the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. so once again, thank you to all those involved for this achievement.
we are talking today about the sustainable management of the external fishing fleet. these are the vessels that fish far beyond european waters. but the word sustainable is not really in the title. europe has one of the largest external fishing fleets in the world. thousands of vessels have registered since 2010, mainly to empty african waters. the largest vessels catch 400 tonnes of fish a day: that's 7,000 tons a week. they catch more fish in a week than 7,000 traditional african fishing boats catch in a whole year. half of all the fish we eat in europe comes from the third world. these robbery expeditions are partly made possible by the eu. it concludes so-called partnership agreements with developing countries, from mauritania to madagascar and from kiribati to micronesia. but it is not just europe that is making these deals of plunder, it is also the owners of monster boats who are allowed to make private deals with the governments of developing countries on their own and often completely under the radar. we want to put a stop to that with this report. the new rules are hardly sustainable for the european fishing fleet, but they are a very good step in the right direction.
sometimes you can see that the three european institutions can work together to make good legislation. the regulation on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets is a good example of this. the regulation aims to modernise existing legislation with strict, transparent and harmonised rules for eu fishing vessels fishing in waters outside the european union, but also for foreign vessels wishing to fish in european waters. the new legislation should also further reduce illegal fishing. each one of these is excellent measures combined with better enforcement, all with the aim of better managing fish stocks in the waters of our blue planet. i support that 100%.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start by congratulating julie girling for this wonderful result and i can only wish to have the same kind of result this wednesday when we have the final trilogue on the effort sharing regulation. i’m particularly happy with the time limited derogation. we had to fight for that very strongly and i’m very happy that that was part of the general compromise in the end. last month, once again in montreal, icao showed how important it is that we have at least one instrument to keep pressure on the icao process when the icao council decided to take over only two of the 12 sustainability criteria for biofuels that their own environment committee had proposed. it’s a very, very weak outcome of the sustainability criteria for biofuels and the same might happen with the offsetting criteria that are being set by icao. it’s very strange that an organisation like icao, which does not have any real knowledge about this, is dealing itself in the criteria for offsets. at the same time, in the eu with the ets we’ve had a very bad experience with offsetting, with huge windfall profits being made and almost destroying our system. so i’m very happy that we are keeping pressure on them by emphasising the transparency that will be asked for by all european institutions. finally, mr president, i would like to emphasise the need for further technological breakthroughs. in the end it’s the only way to limit co2 emissions from the aviation sector. only through electronic or hydrogen aeroplanes can we fight this fight against climate change through aviation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to join the choir of people thanking the rapporteur, ms girling, for her very good work on this file, as well as on the other file, but we will do that for next month i guess. the way in which you dealt with his file is really appreciated, as is the way in which you managed to get a broad majority in this house on board. that was a very good job on a not necessarily easy topic, so in that sense, i offer my congratulations. so what does this deal really mean? it means that aviation for intra-eu flights will now also come under the decreasing cap of emission trading, which was not the case until now. until now, they were part of ets but they got a lot of free allowances and no decrease in caps. finally, some shortage of emission allowances will hit this sector, because in the end every sector needs to play its role. until now, aviation has been excluded. but that’s only for intra-eu flights. of course, for international flights outside the eu we still have an exemption and we still rely on the international organisation icao. first of all, i would like to stress to the commission, which sometimes gets cold feet when making new proposals, for example on maritime and on shipping emissions, that if there is one thing that is very clear from this experience, it is that if the eu did not take a step in 2008, icao would never have come to the deal that they have on the table now. eu policies do influence global policies, and the commission should not shy away from it, rather it should learn from it and step up its efforts regarding the maritime sector, because that is the only other sector still not playing any role. but secondly, we still have to wait and see what icao is really going to deliver. we know that icao has now delivered on their principle, but many countries still said that they do not agree with the target of a neutral greenhouse gas growth path after 2020. we do not yet know how many countries will really fulfil that target. thirdly, they allowed for huge offsetting for themselves, and that’s why i looked a bit surprised at my colleague seb dance, who talked about admiration for icao. i think that’s a bit too early. we need to know what they’re going to deliver, and how they are going to develop their offsetting scheme is going to be key. if we had just said ‘okay, we trust the global deal and that’s it’, we would have made a very big mistake. that is why it is good that we time-limited the derogation until 2023. i would have loved to be a bit stricter, but i can live with this compromise. icao has until 2023 to deliver on an offsetting scheme, otherwise the eu needs to take action on its own.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you very much, commissioner, colleagues. commissioner malmström and some of our inta international trade committee colleagues working on this important topic cannot be here as they are in buenos aires for the wto ministerial. but the good news is that both here and in argentina we are working on european leadership towards rule- and value-based trade. after intense and fruitful cooperation among the shadow rapporteurs, i am happy that we can present a broadly supported call for an eu strategy on digital trade, and hopefully our resolution with broad support can inspire a common position from the commission and thus the european union. so why are digital trade rules important at all? digitisation is becoming a key element or a layer of almost every industry or sector. small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as larger companies, can reach customers all over the world at the click of a button. digitisation and universal and affordable access to the internet are also key to achieving the sustainable development goals. but there are not only opportunities to be reaped; we also see challenges in growing digital protectionism. european companies that are being hindered by forced data localisation requirements and the lack of respect for people’s rights online is an increasing challenge worldwide. so what do we want to achieve with a digital trade strategy for europe? rules must defend the public interest. one of the trends that we see is that its private companies that are essentially setting the norms in the digital economy, from deciding what is and is not acceptable speech to proposals for entire online free-trade zones. but ensuring fair competition, protecting net neutrality and data protection rules cannot be left to private companies to safeguard. so an eu digital strategy should ensure that access to the open internet is prioritised globally, that data transfers are enabled while respecting privacy, and that encryption is understood to be essential for security. currently, the eu relies on adequacy decisions to assess the level of data protection in third countries, and we’ve seen two such decisions with 20 of our trading partners, so there is a lot more that can be done. we need more agreements along with more predictable and transparent criteria. so i end with a note of hope. for the eu position at the wto in argentina, it is a related topic to this debate that we are having about digital trade. i hope that the commission continues its efforts there towards developing a set of binding, multilateral disciplines on e-commerce and to transform the moratorium on banning tariffs on electronic transmissions into a permanent agreement. president, colleagues, the world of trade is rapidly changing and the eu has a key opportunity to lead. not only is the usa taking a step back and china pushing forward, we also need to look at how digitisation changes the nature of the rules that we seek to ensure our principles remain leading, whatever we do in a changing world. i think here, with this eu digital trade strategy, we once more have an opportunity to be rule-makers instead of rule-takers and we should take that opportunity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs, mr fernandes and mr bullmann, for their hard work on this file. as with efsi 1, we continued our work on efsi 2 and with good results. the point is still that there are success stories, and the commissioner rightfully put them out. there are also a lot of projects about which people are raising doubts. is this now really what efsi should be subsidising or supporting? for that reason, we also had a very critical report which parliament adopted at the beginning of this year which claimed that efsi 1 was not functioning yet. if you look now at the improvements that we made in efsi 2, you will see that we have made some big improvements. firstly, on the definition of additionality: we made sure that additionality really means something that otherwise would not have happened at all, and not only something that follows the european investment bank (eib) definition of additionality. on the scoreboard, that it is really going to help in prioritising what efsi is going to promote, and not just a kind of well-being there that does not really help in prioritising transparency, how our decision is being taken, or the earmarking of climate action to make sure that efsi 2.0 is more going in the direction of real climate action. in the end, what is important for us as parliament is to keep our control on the eib. there are improvements on governance, but we as a parliament need to be more serious in monitoring how the eib is reaching their decisions, and certainly in the context of efsi 2.
today we are discussing the proposal to extend the duration of the european investment fund, the efsi. the eu's propaganda machine is back in full swing. the proposal is a great tribute to the good workings of the eu. domestic production has been growing for several years in a row, and yes, all thanks to the great eu, while the effects of the efsi on growth cannot yet be determined. all successes are by definition attributed to the eu rather than to the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the result that can be attributed and deducted is obviously not important. in plain english: numbers are not important. weaknesses and risks are hidden in camouflage language. whether it is the construction of wind farms in the arctic, the construction of a water storage system in portugal or the construction of 13 000 energy-efficient homes in france, it is still a very expensive eu campaign and propaganda which costs citizens a lot of money. i have tabled an amendment with my colleagues from the enf group to reject this proposal.
another dutch speaker, but with a very different story. the efsi is an excellent initiative and deserves this relaunch. we have learned from efsi 1 and a number of points have been explicitly adjusted. the additionality and additional higher risk. secondly, the geographical distribution. there's a scoreboard coming up, and i want to keep up with the commissioner. that there is a real balance throughout europe and that it is not just the more developed rich countries that benefit. and thirdly, today we have reached agreement on the omnibus to make it possible to better integrate the structural funds, to have more synergy in those investments, with the efsi fund. i'm glad that's the case because that's what we were looking for, that synergy. mr fernandes has indicated that the structural funds and cohesion policy are in their own right. this is supplementary. and one more thing: i would like to see more control towards banks. they're too reluctant to get in.
mr president, exactly one year ago we sat in this same room and we discussed the same topics. we made it very clear to the government of myanmar at that point that we expected respect for the basic human rights of all its people, and for it to make significant steps towards an inclusive democracy. today, we have to conclude that we have seen absolutely none of this. instead, what we have seen in 2017 is the systematic use of force and violence; murder, sexual harassment and rape and the destruction of houses, livelihoods and shelters. hundreds of thousands of rohingya refugees have fled the border to bangladesh, and the united nations have called it a textbook example of ethnic cleansing. this disgraceful situation needs to end and it needs to end now. i would like therefore to echo the words of pope francis during his visit there: ‘let us continue to act so that their rights may be recognised. let us not close our hearts and let us not look the other way.’ and i sincerely hope that the government in myanmar, but in particular also sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi, listen to these words, open their hearts and finally start to act, because as desmond tutu has said in a direct call on aung san suu kyi, if the political price of your ascension to the highest office in myanmar is your silence, then that price is surely too high.
mr president, i would like to say that our common foreign and security policy should be about hard power. it should be about defending our borders and providing peace and security. not only by peacekeeping, it should also be by peace enforcing, and the uk should be fully integrated in that. that is why european defence aspirations should be integrated in nato. of course, if it is not possible for nato to act for whatever political reason, we should be able to act ourselves. that is also in the defence of our interests. but again, let’s try to get on one line with nato, that is the best option. if we look at security threats, i also understand that seen from washington dc a threat from russia is different than if you look from tallinn, from kyiv or from georgia, or from moldova – that is a different way, a different angle. if we look at the situation in the middle east, of course this is a global concern which concerns the united states as well, but it is directly on our border, so we have a specific extra interest and therefore we should put our money where our mouth is. we should really invest and, again, those countries which would like to be members of the european union should also adopt our views about security and defence.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, one of the reasons why i consistently defended the diplomatic solution to the nuclear question with iran is that i believe there are so many other key areas where we need to engage the islamic republic of iran. a deal on the new looming nuclear arms challenge was a hurdle that needed to be overcome. firstly, the systematic human rights violations remain the priority, and should be part of every dialogue, visit and communiqué involving the eu. there can be no watering down of what we mean when we talk about human rights. they are universal, even if people pray to a different god or are born in a different culture. executions, torture, censorship and gender discrimination without due process are unacceptable. secondly, iran’s role in its region is a disaster. in iraq, syria, lebanon and yemen, it is clear that iran, through the revolutionary guards, as well as hezbollah, seeks to ruthlessly push its interests and influence, and i am glad that the high representative mentioned the problematic ballistic missile firings as a key point of concern as well. we should not be naive, and we should not be distracted either. we were warned about the potential unrest in the region as a consequence of the nuclear deal, but instead of tearing up the deal like president trump suggests, let us do what we can to stop iran’s toxic influence. we stand by our words and will honour eu commitments, but we must never blindly defend the indefensible. through the new challenges to the joint comprehensive plan of action by president trump, i actually fear that we are again ending up in a place where all we will talk about is the nuclear deal. instead of looking at yesterday’s agreement, let us tackle today’s problems and avoid more disasters tomorrow.
mr president, you are probably aware that the abject regime in north korea has been cooperating closely with the iranian regime for years. this is the case in the nuclear field, as well as in the development of ultra-modern missile systems. that brings me to two crucial questions to you, madam high representative. firstly, how do you see the option, the danger that tehran will use pyongyang, north korea, as a nuclear backdoor, that pyongyang will be used to continue iran's nuclear programme? question number two: mr president, i would like to ask you to consider the possibility of a meeting of the security council, which is not yet in session, and to consider the possibility of a meeting of the security council, which is not yet in session. high representative, we are aware of north korea's illegal nuclear path. is there an iranian version coming out now?
the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the eu and its member states refuse to pour out a clear wine on the jewish state of israel and its capital jerusalem. otherwise the word of israel's god, and that is what really counts most for me and for many christians in europe, and not the word of mrs mogherini. high representative, you have invited the palestinian leader, mahmoud abbas, to brussels for january 2018. in this connection, i would like to draw your attention to a recent report on radicalisation in palestinian education. i have it here, i'll give you a copy. it is very serious that palestinian schoolchildren are being taught from schoolbooks that incite hatred and violence. i therefore urge that this serious report be discussed with mahmoud abbas. high representative, the blatant palestinian denial of the centuries-old jewish connection to the holy land and its holy capital jerusalem blocks once and for all any peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. how do you even see this connection of people, country and state and city?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i wish to thank ms mogherini – who has left in the meantime – and mr avramopoulos for his introduction. i insisted particularly on his presence here because we have to make it very clear that what we are talking about is not external policies, it is migration policies. it is politically relevant that we show that this is a migration debate and that we are not outsourcing the problem, although that is exactly what member states want to do. we have all been shocked by the images of amnesty international, but as ms mogherini rightly said, this is not the first time. every time, like you said, we express our horror, we are shocked and then we basically move on. i know, mr avramopoulos, that you are personally very committed to a proper eu migration policy, but there is one thing that you said that i disagree with, which is that you basically said we are not to blame for this. it is true that the atrocities are committed in libya by libyan people and not by europeans. however, it is also a consequence of our policy choices. we also know that a lot of funding from the eu, but also from italy, is going into libya and ending up in the pockets of god knows who: militia, terrorists, corrupt politicians. we have seen the images of a boat used by the libyan coast guard that has been funded by italy. it is our money going into that misery. let us stop funding the misery. i also would like to hear a little bit more about the rescue operation. where are these people going if they are not being repatriated? finally, mr avramopoulos, i would like to know something else, as remarks have been made and we are talking about human rights here. you have said a lot about legal pathways for labour migration, and i would like to know about these, because that is what we urgently need. stop the fiction of fortress europe: we need legal avenues for labour migration.
i would remind you that commissioner malmström visited libya in 2010 to help eritrean refugees who were in terrible conditions in libyan prisons. gaddafi threatened to send them back to eritrea. there were agreements between gaddafi and berlusconi to stop migrants at sea and eritreans got caught in the middle and were in danger of their lives. i would like to pay tribute to commissioner malmström, who at that time moved heaven and earth to save people. now it's 2017 and there are again unclear deals between italy and libya. but there are also agreements involving the european commission and other member states. the libyan coast guard has never been better equipped than it is now and is paid for by us, paid for by europe. if they do a rescue, more people drown. we know what it's like in the libyan detention camps. it's worse than 2010. and this time, we're gonna help fill those camps ourselves. granted, we're also rescuing people from libya. at the summit in abidjan, i spoke to people who had just returned from libya and they had the most horrific stories. one man was rescued at sea by the libyan coast guard, brought back to a detention camp, sold there, and had worked on the land as a slave. and when he got his mother on the phone to buy him out, he was beaten with machetes because he would scream loud and the money would come sooner. europe has paid for its so-called "salvation at sea". he did not drown. europe has also paid for his return to côte d'ivoire through the european emergency fund for africa and will pay for his integration. isn't that a little cynical?
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, hong kong is the european union’s fourteenth largest trading partner in goods and the fourth largest in services. more than 2000 european companies are present in hong kong, and the european union is hong kong’s second largest trading partner in goods after mainland china. vice president dombrovskis was in hong kong just ten days ago, and we have invited the chief executive, carrie lam, to visit us in brussels as soon as possible. we care about hong kong, and we know that its autonomy has been the foundation of its success. the people of hong kong are now asking to resume electoral reform, and to have a genuine choice for the election of the chief executive and legislative council in accordance with the basic law. but, as your rapporteur rightly notes, the principle of ‘one country, two systems’ has come under increasing pressure. the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary in hong kong have been questioned. the implementation of the electoral reform has been postponed. on top of this, we cannot forget the case of five book publishers who went missing in 2015. to us, that is the most serious challenge to the basic law since 1997, and, unfortunately, it is not an isolated event. in line with the report’s recommendations, we intend to reinforce our bilateral dialogue with hong kong. our latest european union-hong kong structured dialogue took place less than a month ago. what we always stress in our dialogues is that the principle of ‘one country, two systems’ is essential for hong kong’s prosperity, but it is also important for change; for its own growth and prosperity. our relations with china are becoming more and more intense, not only economically, but also on foreign policy and security issues. our dialogue is very open, and our message to our chinese friends is very clear: preserving ‘one country, two systems’ is in their best interests, and we are ready to work with them to make this happen.
for the ecr group in the lead up to this debate, i read in the new york review of books, december 21, 2017 edition, a fascinating essay by hong kong-based journalist gavin jacobson entitled "hong kong protests". through interviews with a range of defenders of core democratic values, jacobson outlines and analyses the erosion of china's promise of two systems, i.e. the steady undermining of social and political pluralism in hong kong. that is exactly what mr smith's excellent and valuable report rightly points to. i hope that this debate and this report will be a support for the champions of democracy and fundamental human rights in hong kong.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, with regards to brexit, i stress the sovereignty of the uk. this implies no jurisdiction of the european court of justice, no restrictions on free trade agreements, application of uk law with regard to eu citizens, and these are to us the central elements of any acceptable deal. having said that, migration is again an important topic of the european council meeting, and rightly so. mass migration still threatens the survival of our civilisation, our security and our culture. these illiterate illegal fortune-seekers believe in the barbarism of sharia, hadith and quran. they come to the eu and still come in hundreds of thousands to benefit from our prosperity, and they do not contribute a single bit to our societies. they take without giving and if necessary by force. this has to stop. so i praise the governments of the visegrád countries who stand for their own traditions, for their people and culture; they lead the resistance against juncker and timmermans, they are the ones guiding europe. this is how you deal with illegal migrants: first, no admissions, and next no incentives, and that is: no housing, no social benefits, no family reunion and no endless legal procedures. i also praise the courageous libyan coastguard who set sail against aggressive human traffickers and rogue ngos while risking their own lives. the coastguard of a country that was destroyed by france, the eu and the us, now protects the eu borders. the eu cannot show more clearly that it is utterly bankrupt. schengen has to end now and national borders must close now. finally, the migrants who are already here must be returned straight away. do not tolerate them, do not pay them off, do not send them back, but round them up and bring them back. so listen, mr juncker and mr timmermans, this is how you do it.
madam president, i actually think europe is not finished, but very much alive. i would like to thank mr barnier for his efforts, and indeed progress has been made but, in my view, not sufficient progress and that is why i will not support paragraph 2 of the resolution. however, i will endorse the resolution as a whole, as it is imperative that we avoid a cliff-edge scenario and i believe that parliament’s conditions for consent are crystal clear. the three key issues must be addressed. first of all, it must be clear that citizens in the uk do not have to apply for a status but must register or declare, that is key. secondly, citizens should retain the right to bring cases before the ecj and thirdly, brits in the eu 27 must retain the right to free movement because, mr barnier, british citizens today are still eu citizens. we represent their interests as well and we have to secure their future, too. finally, ms may has promised to create a hostile environment and she has succeeded wonderfully well. every day we get messages from people in the uk facing harassment, hatred and violence – and we are hearing the noises from that side of the house. over 5 000 europeans have been deported from the uk this year; the uk government has a responsibility to create a welcoming and safe climate for people who have contributed to british society for many years.
i still hope that brexit doesn't happen. brexit is damaging, politically and economically, to both parties. the political centre of gravity in the european union then shifts southwards and we can already see the wild wishes for even more europe that mr macron is voicing. the economic damage caused by brexit will be severe, not only for the united kingdom's gross domestic product, but also for that of the european union and, unfortunately, for that of my country. for now: we shall move quickly to the second phase of the negotiations. certainly not a divorce by fighting, but good and reasonable agreements. we must continue to live and work together beyond 2019. we must keep the political and economic gap created by this departure as small as possible. that is in the interests of the united kingdom and in the interests of the european union. finally, in 2016, millions of britons voted to leave the eu. this outcome is not due solely to the tabloids or to ukip. there is a feeling underneath that we also find in my country. this week a report by the social and cultural planning bureau showed that support for the european union in the netherlands has fallen from 75 to 58%. this calls for reflection, not for the flight forward for more eu.
madam president, at many british tables, i think, christmas lunch 2017 will still be surrounded by uncertainty. first and foremost, for european citizens and their families, and indeed, as many colleagues have said, more guarantees are needed here. but also economically, as the bbc reported that this same christmas lunch will this year be 20% more expensive due to brexit-induced inflation and price volatility. yes, let us talk about trade, as that is also in the interests of our producers, our farmers, and our fishermen. but let us be clear: access to the single market is not free. you can’t have your cake and eat it. finally, now that i am in the christmas spirit anyway, let me warn this house against false prophets, like the brexit prophet nigel farage, who, through nonsense, lies, and videotape, got his brexit and then ran away. he talks about unelected bureaucrats but he betrayed his voters and, indeed, now he is absent. he had his videotape, he will post his speech on all the social media. but let us promise our voters and our citizens one thing: the work in this house will have to be done by serious and maybe less flamboyant politicians, and that is us. so when we reconvene after christmas, let us get to work in the interests of the european citizens and also the brits.
in writing. in recent months i have received many messages from both british citizens living on the mainland and europeans resident in the united kingdom. the majority of these are multi-national families. it is not for nothing that four of the five points in the resolution before us are concerned with the rights of citizens. despite may's statement that the rights of both groups will remain the same after the uk leaves the eu, i understand their concerns. after all, there are no hard guarantees yet. but that doesn't stop me worrying. for example, what about the social rights of our citizens? this subject seems to be underestimated, but with the recently announced social pillar it is all the more important. this pillar is co-signed on behalf of the united kingdom. the outcome of the negotiations cannot be seen as an erosion of social protection, both in the united kingdom and in the european union. in fact , i 'm not . the commission has already made a number of proposals.
schengen was a very sympathetic treaty at first because why wouldn't we trust each other, right? but in the meantime, the demographics of western europe have changed, and terrorist threats are the order of the day. the mistake that is being made here, and in this debate, in the european parliament, is to confuse the free movement of persons with the free movement of persons without a passport. but fortunately the commission has now admitted in response to my questions that these two cases are not connected. in practice, schengen has long since died. the only problem is the obituary hasn't been in the paper yet. a growing number of member states, including germany and france, renew border controls every six months. and that sovereignty, i like that. let us recognize that schengen is from another era and no longer applicable today.
in writing. today we are debating the admission of croatia, bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. the commission considers that bulgaria and romania fulfil all the criteria set out. when we talk about schengen, we also talk about borders. last summer we received over 200 complaints about border abuses in bulgaria: long waiting times, having to pay bribes and unjust fines - it all came to pass. moreover, our own investigation has shown that no border guards have been convicted to date. a major stumbling block in this is integrity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed amendments to the directive should be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european parliament. i can't do that anymore. it is time for the country to take corruption seriously and stop hiding behind false solutions.
the social affairs ministers agreed on 20 principles as the social pillar of the european union, and these are mainly socialist principles, which are priceless and deprive freedom. interventions in the labour market, interventions in wage growth, interventions in entrepreneurship, interventions in pensions, the unions back in power. now, socialist ministers may pursue socialist ideals, but this is worse. they become eu principles and, in the future, european values. that is why it is no longer part of our national democracy, that sovereignty we have lost. with this socialist policy as eu law, it becomes illegal to pursue any other political principles at national level. socialism becomes the state religion. am i the only one here who thinks that the european union is getting a little bit scarier every day?
the european pillar of social rights is an important example of how the european union is standing up for the rights of its citizens in a rapidly changing world, said president juncker. and of course the social pillar is a new chapter in the social history of europe. however, i and many of my s&d colleagues in the empl committee are concerned about whether the social pillar is really becoming the example to show that europe is standing up for the rights of its citizens. the pillar should lead to better access to social security for all, longer parental leave and better working conditions for workers in the platform economy. the only problem is that the plans for reforming emu do not take the pillar into account and the joint declaration to be signed tomorrow does not mention the social pillar. the commission's 2018 work programme also places more emphasis on economic proposals than on social proposals, not to mention the competition between the member states and the commission. i am sure you understand my concerns and the concerns of many of my colleagues. it is time for the concrete measures that so many europeans are longing for to be taken. the european union is still too much a market and does too little for the people, and that must change after the gothenburg summit. i hope we will put an end to the situation where the commission points to the member states and vice versa, because the commission also has to come up with proposals. and to the council, to my own prime minister mark rutte, i say: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals.
commissioner and minister, it is good that you have continued. you have been here several times, and this time the council has been here to discuss your approach to the specific problems. often we found that we had some problems in being on time, in responding quickly. you've put down a good package. but in the epp we also talked about a follow-up step in the preparation and the council has a major role to play in that. namely, if you don't pay attention to the provinces at the same time, what happened in attica will happen. if you don't manage your river basins well -- and we have the resources to do that as well -- you get floods, you put people in danger, you have to act. so start with prevention and use the structural funds. we can do that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so, a compliment today, but at the same time an invitation to keep each other in the loop. the member states, and the council in particular, must ensure that we are at the forefront of the fight against climate change. we have had six or seven discussions with the commissioner here this year. but the problem is that we don't have our affairs in order, we don't have good risk prevention. it's got to be different.
rapporteur. – mr president, on this thursday morning we are going to talk about the european strategy for low-emission mobility, which means of course talking about the transport sector – that is one of the more challenging sectors – in order to comply with the paris agreement. when we were getting to a deal in paris, we knew that all the different sectors have to deliver their contribution,l and that is not so easy. it is nice to say yes to paris, it is more difficult to implement it in specific sectors. for example, last night there were trilogues until about 5.30 on the effort sharing – where the transport sector belongs – but no deal was reached. this is just to show that words are nice, but deeds are more complicated. what we are doing in this report is to give, as a parliament, our reaction to the white paper that the commission has published on the future of low—emission mobility, which is a good start by the commission, but in the end was very general on many issues, whereas in this report we are trying to become more concrete. looking at all the different sectors, what does it mean if you implement paris? the first important message is that the transport sector should be close to zero emissions by mid—century, which means that the commission white paper, looking at the future of transport, needs to be updated, and parliament is also clearly asking for that. but of course it also means sectoral activity. i think that there will be a lot about cars in the debate. as always, in the parliament we love to debate about cars. i just want to warn my colleagues that there is much more in the report than just that. what the car and the future of cars mean for co2 emissions and for a mandate on zero-emission vehicles will of course be discussed. the report makes some statements on this, but the legislative proposal that the commission put forward at the beginning of this month on co2 limits in cars is going to be the legislative work on that. what we further do in this report is to shine some light on all the different sectors and come up with different proposals, but one more overarching and important message that this report gives is that we have to get the pricing right. if we just look at the different modes of transport, we see that the different ways of pricing are unevenly distributed. one that springs to mind is the aviation sector. there too we know that, preferably, we will need global action, but it is also very important to realise that, in the end, european action also stimulates action at global level, as was happening at icao. that is also very clear. if europe had not taken its step on ets a couple of years ago, there would not have been a global deal in icao two years ago. i think that is also an important message. the report does, of course, go further into infrastructural challenges and issues around logistics and digitalisation, looking at how these future technologies will provide options and opportunities. i think it is very important that the report also goes into the economic opportunities. if you go to a low—emission mobility transport, there are also opportunities for new sectors to thrive and to have future jobs. i think that is a very important message in this report as well. there will be some tight votes, i know that. i want thank my shadow rapporteurs for their great work on it – i can see them all in this room – and i would also would like to thank mr zoffoli from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), who also actively contributed to the report with contributions from the envi committee, bringing together a strong report. i hope this parliament will send a strong message to the commission to come forward with more legislative action to make sure that we will have near zero—emission transport by mid-century. (applause)
the commissioner has just said so. if we don't do something, our mobility will become the largest source of greenhouse gases after 2030. so it is time for action, because we need to reduce emissions in europe. the present report by mr bas eickhout is balanced and ambitious, and it calls for action. action to prevent new co2-emitting cars from entering the european market after 2035. action to roll out alternative fuels infrastructure across europe. but also action to introduce the principle that the user pays the polluter in transport very consistently, for road transport, but certainly also for other modes such as aviation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. that means that the european commission must go to the international level to see what we can do about the exemption from vat on air tickets. or what we can do to finally just tax kerosene first. why, mr president, should i today have to pay vat on a train ticket between amsterdam and paris, when i have absolutely no need to pay vat on the same air ticket between those two places? it is simply no longer possible to explain this to our citizens, simply because it is not fair. the consumer must be able to make a fair assessment on the basis of a fair price. so i, as a liberal, am all for using price incentives to get to sustainability. and, mr president, that vat exemption, but also the fact that there are no excise duties on kerosene, is really just one example of something we have to tackle, precisely to bring about a change. because, in conclusion, if we want to combat climate change, if we want to create a healthier environment, we need to not only think differently about mobility, but we need to act differently.
i have had the opportunity to observe very closely how rapporteur bas eickhout and the shadow rapporteurs have struggled to deliver this report with a good content. of course, there are many warm words about greening, but when it comes to action, the reality is a bit more complex than thought. we all want to have cop 21 tomorrow. but as i said, life is stronger than doctrine and we have to be a little careful about the undertone of this report, that it is going to be too one-sided. electric cars in a difficult city like brussels, replacing all combustion cars with electric cars, that does not solve the traffic problem. it's hard to say here, but the industry needs to change. they need time and innovation. citizens are still hiccupping at a price too high for that electric car. i would like to draw attention once again to the classic modal shift from road and air to rail and inland waterways.
a steward is given control of something and must carry out that task with value and future-proofness. i believe that man is the steward of this creation and that responsibility requires us to reduce the emission of dirty substances, including in the transport sector. the report by mr eickhout is very clear on this and i should like to focus on two good points and one slightly less good point. firstly, air transport is a highly polluting mode of transport and the honourable member rightly calls for attention to be paid to the pricing of kerosene and air tickets. that is what is really needed to push for a cleaner world, including in aviation. secondly, freight transport must also be transformed into a cleaner and better, less polluting and more sustainable transport, and this means that there is room for innovation. i am therefore very pleased that paragraph 93 of the report makes a clear plea for the ecocombi. good, because the ecocombi takes away a lot of the mileage that smaller trucks do. that is why it is good that the ecocombi is so prominently mentioned. three, as for the track paragraph, i find it very ideological. the many millions that went to the railways for the modal shift simply didn't work. you can see that the modal shift of the track has not been achieved in the end. we need to look at more creative ideas, for example, more interconnection between inland waterway and road transport. but in general, thank you to the rapporteur. good report that puts the stewardship of the transport sector in a good light!
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to say thank you to the commissioner, and also to colleagues, for the very interesting debate we have had this morning. one thing that is striking is that some of my colleagues read ‘prohibition’ in this report and they read that we are favouring one certain technology specifically. i would like to ask them where they read that. when we are putting a mandate on zero—emission vehicles it is probably you who then reads ‘electric cars’. maybe that says something about your obsession rather than what is in the report, because it is just a mandate on zero—emission vehicles. anything that can comply with that will deliver. it does not say ‘electric cars’. point out to me where ‘electric cars’ is explicitly mentioned. i think it is a bit of a preoccupation with some of my colleagues that they read ‘electric cars’ everywhere, as if that is the biggest enemy. i think, in the end, we have to clean up our air, we have to lower emissions and it is possible. i really want to stress that it is possible and, if we do it in time, it will make sure that the jobs we have will remain in europe. if we do not do it, the rest of the world will move ahead and we will start importing their techniques instead of producing them ourselves. i think that what the brits would say is ‘penny wise, pound foolish’. i would like to stress that we really have to be careful not to make that mistake. for the rest, i really would like to thank everyone for the cooperation. i am looking forward to the vote. i would like to say thank you very much to the commission, but you say we have all the proposals on the table, though you also know very well that some of these proposals are not so ambitious at all. in the end, paris implementation also requires the commission to come forward with proposals that really deliver on that, and i therefore plead to my colleagues not only to accept this report, setting nice targets, but when we are talking about legislative proposals that we also really will make sure that they will deliver on what is needed to implement paris. thank you once more. i am looking forward to the vote and future debates.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we have addressed human rights violations in cambodia repeatedly and the dissolving of the national rescue party, as well as the barring of 118 of its politicians from political activity for five years, is another reason for deep concern. there is now effectively no alternative to the government, and when politicians are silenced, despite their immunity, the situation of civil society and human rights defenders is even worse. the eu should attach consequences to these serious developments. respect for fundamental human rights is a prerequisite to continuing to grant the benefits from the eu’s preferential ‘everything but arms’ trade scheme, and eur 410 million is foreseen to go to cambodia over the next couple of years. we call for an immediate review of cambodia’s obligations and for the withdrawal of trade preferences and financial support in response to the recent events, as well as the structural human rights violations. individual sanctions, including asset freezing and visa bans, should also be part of the consideration of which consequences are needed and appropriate.
i am sure that parliament has tried to improve the commission's bad proposal somewhat, but it is still a matter of postponing national democratic decision-making for three to six months. if we let this continue, it will certainly backfire on the way the european union is perceived. the commission has to speak first in the local councils, in the local democratic representations, before they can proceed with their decision-making. that is why i think this is worth a debate in the house and why we should come back to this next time.
