in writing. malta will hold the presidency of the european union for the next six months and will face enormous challenges. one such challenge is certainly the forthcoming brexit negotiations and the formal opening of the procedure for the united kingdom's withdrawal from the community. malta will need to negotiate skillfully within the council in order to develop a position that safeguards the interests of all member states and above all of all citizens (especially those living in the uk). i am therefore pleased that prime minister joseph muscat has said that the united kingdom should not have access to the single market without respecting all the freedoms. this must be the basis of our negotiating strategy and it is good that the maltese government shares this view. another extremely important issue is the negotiations on the revision of the directive on the posting of workers. this is a highly controversial issue and one that is stirring up a lot of emotions in the member states. malta will be the third presidency to address the future of this service. the current presidency should seek solutions that are rational and responsible and that guarantee respect for workers' rights on the one hand and allow companies to provide services across borders on the other. it is important that the council's position reflects the doubts that have arisen in the 11 member states and that have led to the initiation of the yellow card procedure.
in writing. erasmus+ is the flagship eu programme. ensuring its effective implementation and funding is crucial for, among other things, promoting european values and building a sense of being european. these are the values we need most today, and the next generation of erasmus+ has the best chance of becoming the bearer of a new european identity and of further contributing to the creation of a united europe. i therefore ask the maltese presidency to do its utmost to ensure that erasmus+ is adequately funded. the planned 50 million that could support the programme is only half of what was previously planned for erasmus+. this amount is insufficient to ensure the continued effective functioning of the programme. already, many very good projects cannot be implemented because of lack of adequate financial support. it is also worrying that additional initiatives are being planned to be funded by erasmus+, whereas we already do not have sufficient funds to cover the current needs of the programme.
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. congratulations on your choice! we live in a time of great challenges for the security of europe: terrorism, the wave of migration, the aggression of russia in the east, and in a sense also brexit. even if we do not find a final solution, i appreciate the fact that all these issues are on the agenda of the european council. however, i wanted to inform parliament about an important event that affects the geopolitical situation in my region. following the decisions of the nato summit in warsaw, the first american troops have appeared on my land, which is the fulfillment of allied obligations. we are aware of the signed declaration on cooperation between nato and the european union. security matters and deepening integration in the area of the common security and defence policy require first of all the agreement of the governments and the unanimity of the member states. this is necessary for the security of the whole european union, but it requires discretion.
madam president! for many years, we've been dealing primarily with information about how we deal with crises. this is true of both the council and the commission, but the migration crisis has been discussed many times in this house and it is a problem - i keep saying this - not only european but above all global, both in terms of its sources and in terms of its effective response. without internationalization, we cannot speak of success here. firstly, i welcome the positive assessment of the progress made in implementing the agreements with the five african countries on both the transit and origin of migrants. secondly, following up on this positive assessment, as concluded, i would also like to ask for the development of similar forms of cooperation with other countries of transit or origin of migration. thirdly, i would also like to see more intensive implementation of the valletta plan, including the acceleration of legislative work to promote sustainable development in the countries of origin of migration. fourthly, i also think that malta, which holds the presidency of the council of the european union, could also try to make significant progress in cooperation with libya during this presidency. i would also like to welcome the initiative to integrate industrial policy into the european union's strategic initiatives - the labour market and industrial policy must be key here - and the extension of the european fund for strategic investments.
madam president! i agree with the assessment that the decisions taken by the european council are not up to the challenges facing europe and the union. we're still waiting for new ideas, hopefully every month. unfortunately, there are no new ideas. it's a policy of small steps, although sometimes they're steps in the right direction. for example, the european council recently called for swift action in response to the council conclusions of 6 december last year, when it adopted a programme to deepen cooperation between nato and the european union and endorsed the establishment of a european centre for combating hybrid threats in finland. strengthening cooperation in this area, training experts, scientific research in the field of defence against cyberattacks is the right step, but as often happens in the case of the european union belated. strengthening the eu's capabilities to defend against hybrid threats and cooperating with nato in this area will not only enhance our security, but also that of our european neighbours, to whom the union has commitments and whose stability is of paramount importance to us.
in writing. the december european council conclusions presented at the plenary session addressed the key issues for 2017. i agree that alongside the intensification of security, counter-terrorism and rational policies in the face of the migration crisis, linked to the sealing of borders and the return of illegal immigrants, the issue of ukraine is important. in the latter, the netherlands must decide. the eu's 27 countries and the european parliament have now ratified the association agreement with ukraine, a document that is important for the balance in eastern europe, but cannot enter into force because of the lack of acceptance in the netherlands. this creates unnecessary and dangerous tensions in eastern europe, including for poland. addressing this issue has rightly been identified as one of the priorities for 2017. another major problem facing the eu today is the situation in refugee camps in europe, where the harsh weather and cold temperatures require additional assistance for refugees.
in writing. in the light of the conclusions of the december council summit, i would like to draw attention to three issues: the european council stressed the need for a greater financial effort to strengthen the european asylum support office as well as the european border and coast guard in order to ensure the security of the union's external borders and to ensure a fair process for processing asylum applications in the eu member states. it's a good step that should be supported. in the context of security, the financing mechanism for athena, which has not been used to its full potential, needs to be revised and even re-promoted. i will be following with interest the development of the ideas contained in the european defence action plan proposed by the commission and endorsed by the council. the idea of a european defence fund is particularly noteworthy, especially in the area of joint capacity building. it is crucial that the union is actively involved in enhancing the sense of security and building security, especially in today's global political climate. i also note the agreement on the extension of the efsi, which is due to be approved in the first half of this year. it is important to work on increasing the promotion of the programme in the central and eastern european member states so that they can take full advantage of the investment opportunities they need. this will have a positive impact on the success of the juncker plan.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would first like to thank you for this opportunity to inform you about the state of play in the council on the negotiations on the financial transaction tax (ftt). you are well aware of the history of this file. in 2011 no agreement among the 28 member states could be found so some member states decided to pursue the route of enhanced cooperation in this area, which is an option foreseen by the eu treaties. we welcome the fact that in 2012 parliament issued its consent for this scenario and in 2013 parliament issued its opinion on the respective commission legislative proposal for enhanced cooperation regarding the ftt. against this background, i would like to brief you on the remaining issues that need to be resolved in these negotiations, as we understand them from the perspective of the presidency. the political objectives and implications which could be expected from such a project were made clear by the commission when the ftt proposal was put forward. you are well aware that the negotiations on an ftt are of a very complex nature and they have turned out to be quite time-consuming. some have also made the more general point that, if the ftt is not implemented on a wide scale globally, the threat to national revenues, markets and the investment environment may outweigh any benefits. nevertheless, some eu member states already have their national laws on taxing financial transactions in place. these laws are adapted to national specificities and we have to clearly evaluate which aspects of such a national tax could be introduced at eu level. as you are aware, the state of play on these negotiations has been discussed regularly and publicly in the council, involving all 28 ministers as required by the treaties. the presidency is ready to continue this practice even though malta is not an ftt participating country. in the last ecofin meeting during the slovak presidency in december, on the initiative of participating member states, further progress was demonstrated on a number of elements of the ftt. such progress was deemed to be of high importance for further work with a view to refining the remaining aspects of the future ftt and drafting the legislative text of the directive. moreover, participating member states presented their findings relating to the cost efficiency of ftt collection as the discussions so far have shown a need for further reassurance that the tax can be collected in a cost-efficient way. building on the progress made regarding the principle of territoriality, the tax base and the taxable event of a future ftt, a draft legislative text may possibly be drafted in the coming months. it seems clear to us that further work in the council and its preparatory bodies will be required before a final agreement can be reached among participating member states. as the council presidency, i would like to recall that any agreement will also have to respect the competencies, rights and obligations of member states that do not participate in the enhanced cooperation. in conclusion, i am confident of the view that, if negotiations proceed in a constructive manner, there will be a chance for a first step in the area of ftt at eu level. the presidency will be supportive of that process and assist where it can.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first of all congratulate you on your election as the new president of this house. ladies and gentlemen, dear members of parliament, dear council, it was the commission which proposed to introduce a harmonised financial transaction tax in 2011 and which proposed a financial transaction tax under enhanced cooperation in 2013. the objectives of this latter proposal are: first, to strengthen the single market by reducing the number of divergent national approaches to financial transaction taxation; second, to ensure that the financial sector makes a fair and substantial contribution to public revenues; and, finally, the financial transaction tax will support regulatory measures in encouraging the financial sector to engage in more responsible activities geared towards the real economy. the commission therefore fully supports the work of the member states participating in the enhanced cooperation and acknowledges the significant basic agreement among the ten participating member states on the core engine of the text. this agreement has now to be translated into a legal text. there are still some features of the text design that have to be decided upon. the commission stands ready to continue to provide technical support to participating member states in their effort to present the final ftt design. the commission encourages and supports the ten member states participating in the enhanced cooperation to undertake all the necessary steps in order to define a calendar that will allow a compromise decision on the full text to be reached by mid-2017.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, when the financial transaction tax (ftt) was proposed by the commission in 2011, it was greeted with euphoria by many. the tax was supposed to limit the scope for speculative transactions that were at the root of the financial crisis. now, almost six years down the road, the ftt is still being debated and the initial enthusiasm has largely vanished. we know that there are two major problems with the ftt. first, when a tax is imposed on financial transactions it tends not only to reduce speculation, but also harms productive transactions such as equity investment and bond trading. the extent to which this negative effect contains productive capital flows may be substantial. and second, when a tax is imposed by a group of selected countries only, financial transactions tend to migrate to other jurisdictions where no taxes are applied. these capital outflows from countries concerned may jeopardise their growth prospects. if, however, an ftt is to be eventually implemented, it should be carefully designed so as to minimise the risks involved. three suggestions can be made in this context. first, the tax rate has to be set at a very low level to minimise efficiency losses and hit only high-frequency speculative transactions. second, the tax base has to be as broad as possible, covering all financial transactions in order to avoid arbitration. and third, its purpose should be strictly to reduce speculation. it should not be burdened with other noble goals, such as providing additional budgetary revenues or the redistribution of wealth.
madam president! when a humanitarian disaster begins, politics ends, and therefore all the actions that the european commission representative has spoken about are obvious. of course, in saying this, i fully support all those who have said that the funds that are being transferred to help those in refugee centres should be subject to very effective controls. because these funds should go to those who need them. i repeat once again: when a humanitarian disaster begins, politics ends. but the political responsibility does not end there, because in giving this aid we must be aware of who brought this situation about. of course, the direct perpetrator is the mafia of illegal smuggling of immigrants, which, i remind you, we declared to fight almost two years ago. and yet, not only have we not taken any real steps, we have not even taken diplomatic steps yet to get a real mandate to do this outside the basin that separates italy from libya. but the perpetrators are also in the leadership of the european union. these are the people who said you could come here without restrictions. our colleagues have been saying that we have known for decades that in difficult weather conditions, homeless people simply die, and yet these people have been exposed to completely irresponsible declarations and promises. this has to stop.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on eu logistics and multimodal transport in the new ten-t corridors (2015/2348 (ini)) (a8-0384/2016).
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 19 january 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. logistics covers services, planning, management and flow processes for goods and information between the point of origin and the point of destination. efficiency and sustainability of freight transport logistics is essential for the proper functioning of many other services and activities in our economy, from the production of goods to their delivery, or even the recycling of materials. the european logistics sector contributes to about 14% of the european union's gdp and employs over 11 million people across the european union. it is therefore essential to support and develop the logistics sector. one solution is the ten-t transport corridor. the aim of developing the ten-t network is to ensure the eu's territorial cohesion and to facilitate the free movement of people and goods. an efficient transport system within the union is intended to contribute to the better functioning of the single market, to stimulate economic growth in the region and to enhance the competitiveness of individual member states and the eu as a whole on a global scale. the ten-t corridor is expected to rebuild transport demand and is estimated to reach pre-2008 economic crisis levels by 2020. by 2040, it is expected to increase by 40%. it is therefore important to ensure that the available resources are used to the full, to introduce new digital and innovative technologies, to improve the availability of information on multimodal and logistics services in the european union and to make the sector more attractive to professionals.
in writing. as a member of the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism, i agree that we need to create much better conditions for the development of multimodal transport in the european union. road transport is now by far the dominant mode of transport, which is increasing congestion and damaging the environment. to change this situation radically, more money must be spent on rail and water transport. we should aim in the union to move 30% of long-distance road transport to rail or water transport by 2030. however, the setting of such objectives requires a gradual change in investment priorities. i hope they will be included in the next financial perspective 2021-2027 that we are currently working on.
i am very pleased to be able to chair a meeting for the first time in my new term of office. thank you all for your support and votes. i thank the commissioner for his very valuable presence among us, his very important speeches. thank you to our translators, thank you to the administration. i wish you a good night.
mr. chairman, please! of course, we support active forms of social engagement: cooperation and social dialogue. we support a barrier-free europe for disabled people, combating child poverty and protecting their rights, strengthening the rights of older people, combating homelessness, youth employment programmes, protecting people excluded from the labour market, roma rights and integration, etc., but we do not support top-down standards and guidance that are detached from the economic and social realities of individual member states. nor is there any acceptance of the principle of subsidiarity being violated and of the possibility of the competitiveness of individual member states being undermined. and yet, many of these lofty goals are, unfortunately, essentially a sham, and there is still child poverty, exclusion, marginalization, youth unemployment. the report also calls for high quality employment for women, including in senior positions. so the question - unfortunately rhetorical - is how many women have occupied the three highest offices of the european union, namely the heads of the european parliament, the european commission and the european council?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. there is no doubt that member states need to modernise labour markets and social policies. the ever-changing world of work, globalisation, digitalisation, ageing societies, new business models - these are all phenomena that require quick and effective solutions. the european commission has announced that the social pillar will provide a framework for social and employment policies and support reforms at national level. it's a very good direction. unfortunately, the report adopted by the employment committee goes far beyond this framework in many places. in my view, the european pillar of social rights should first of all respect the principle of subsidiarity. because of the wide variations in the organisation of the labour market, europe is not ready to create uniform solutions for all countries. secondly, enforcement of existing legislation to respect workers' rights should be a key element of the pillar. in view of new trends and digitalisation, we should create a legal framework for new forms of employment without unnecessarily changing existing good legal solutions. third, the level of social development is a derivative of economic progress. the pillar should create a framework, not impose specific social standards from above. better cooperation within the internal market, more efficient flows of workers, goods and services - these are all phenomena that will allow for faster social convergence. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the ppe group, tom vandenkendelaere, for the negotiations he has conducted, during which he has ensured that the subsidiarity principle is respected, which is very, very important for the member states today, especially in order to avoid a two-speed europe.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in this debate, i would like to point out that the european commission's action on the social pillar should respect the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to point out that in my country, poland, the prenatal programme "family 500+" has been running for almost a year, providing support of around eur 120 per child per month for families with two or more children, as well as for less well-off families with one child. the programme covers almost 4 million children, or about half of all children under 18, and costs pln 23 billion a year, or nearly 1.5% of poland's gdp, and is a big investment in the young generation. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission to propose that such programmes implemented by individual member states be supported in future by the european social fund. after all, demographic problems are common to the vast majority of eu countries.
mr. chairman, please! the european pillar of social rights was announced in september 2015. there was a very broad consultation last year and i am pleased that the european parliament has taken the initiative of a report which is a contribution to this discussion. i share the view of many colleagues in this chamber that, in the face of rapidly changing employment conditions and global economic trends, member states should cooperate on employment and social issues to ensure that union citizens have adequate standards of employment and social protection. however, it should be noted that under the treaties, member states have exclusive competence over social security systems and the union has a role to play in ensuring that this cooperation is strengthened. however, we must bear in mind that the enormous diversity of local practices and the still incomplete cohesion between individual labour markets make proposals such as a common minimum income or a single european unemployment insurance scheme seem to me to be a step in the wrong direction.
in writing. the european pillar of social rights is part of the european commission's work towards a deeper and fairer economic and monetary union (emu). it also sets the course for further convergence in the euro area. the eu should respond urgently to the growing frustration of many people with uncertain futures, unemployment and lack of prospects, especially for young people. the foundations of european integration must also be strengthened and the sense of community among the population must be increased. the european pillar of social rights should contribute to the proper application of international labour standards and the modernisation of the social acquis. in addition, the standards to be enshrined in the european pillar of social rights should apply to all countries participating in the single market and the legislation and management mechanisms needed to achieve them should apply to all eu member states. certain constraints arising from participation in the euro area require the setting of additional social objectives and standards and the consideration of financial support at the euro area level, which is also open on a voluntary basis to non-euro area member states.
in writing. there is no doubt that many eu countries are still facing the social problems resulting from the financial crisis, in particular high unemployment. in other countries, particularly in central and eastern europe, the relatively low level of prosperity is due to historical reasons. the european pillar of social rights proposed by the european commission aims to support employment and social progress. however, given the current wide disparities in social protection levels across the eu-28, it is difficult to envisage the development of specific social policy solutions at community level rather than at member state level. i am therefore concerned that the commission's initiative in its present form, despite its noble intentions, may in practice lead to a breach or even allow eu countries to restrict the freedoms fundamental to the single market: the movement of workers and the provision of services. such actions, already undertaken under the pretext of combating 'social dumping', are completely incompatible with the idea, principles and rules established to create a single market. it is not in the interests of the poorer eu member states, which must have a chance to catch up quickly, especially those that emerged after the second world war and were consolidated during the cold war.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the central african republic, which is second to last in the un's social development rankings, is facing rising crime as well as a difficult humanitarian situation. despite the successful elections last february and the stabilization of the country after a coup d'état and a religious civil war, the rebel attacks on civilians, including ethnic minorities, and the sense of lawlessness have intensified in recent months. the acts of aggression against minusca personnel and humanitarian organisations effectively prevent the delivery of assistance to more than two million citizens in need. it is important that the authorities of the central african republic continue their efforts to disarm and reintegrate members of armed groups and to establish the rule of law and a functioning justice system. in this context, close cooperation between the authorities of the country and the european union, the world bank and the united nations is of great importance.
in writing. the united states of america is one of the poorest countries in the world, and since its liberation from colonial rule, it has not been able to build a stable state. the problems that affect the people of the cis embody the most serious challenges: hunger, poverty, drought, floods, land clearing, monstrous religious and ethnic conflicts, whose uncontrolled escalation has led to mass crimes, murders, crimes, robberies. christians have been particularly affected by the conflict, especially after the entry of seleka and boko haram. terrorism is on the rise, smuggling of people, weapons, drugs, and the looting of natural resources is not doing the people of the cis any good. the european union is the largest donor of humanitarian and development aid. he's using the un channels to do his work. the western presence has not always been effective. there have also been incidents of compromising representatives of peace and stabilisation missions. the eu needs to be deeply involved and to have a well-thought-out aid plan. the union's bridging mission, involving the gendarmerie units of the member states, including poland, was an undeniable success, but it was too short-lived. after initial organisational problems, the un-government mission in afghanistan (minusca), which took over from the un, improved the situation to the point of allowing the presidential elections to be held. the efforts of the entire western world, of all its democratic institutions, are essential to bring about lasting peace in the cis. i also appreciate the efforts of all the religious leaders, as well as the polish missionaries who have been there for many years.
in writing. in recent years, we have witnessed a new revolution in the economy, driven by digital data. collecting and processing data on an unprecedented scale presents many challenges, but also great potential for increasing the productivity of the union economy. however, the development of a data-driven economy requires a kind of roadmap if we are to ensure that businesses and consumers in the european union can take full advantage of the dynamics of the big data sector, which will be a game changer for our entire economy. the european parliament has for some time been calling for a review of possible tools for the development of a data-driven economy and has identified the types of necessary framework in the area of regulatory and non-regulatory needs that would be a key element in shaping a better environment for growth in this area. the european digital economy is too slow to embrace the data revolution compared to the us or even china. it is therefore essential that european businesses and consumers take full advantage of the benefits of the big data sector. this will be a game-changer for our economy and will bring europe tangible benefits in terms of competitiveness, which is so important, if not groundbreaking, in the years ahead.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue already mentioned by ms corazza bildt. unfortunately, the situation in eastern ukraine and the humanitarian crisis in avdiyivka, the destruction of critical infrastructure and the deaths of civilians require our debate here in the plenary. therefore, i propose to add this point to the agenda. please vote on this.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, once again i would like to thank you for the invitation and for the opportunity to present to you the second state of the energy union report, only a few hours after it was adopted this morning by the college. as you may remember, parliament was one of my first stops in presenting the first report as well, and this is no coincidence. it reflects the importance i see in working very closely with you, the european parliament, in co-piloting the energy union. only through close partnership can we ensure that the legislative proposals of the november package will be adopted over the next nine months. this is the objective i presented last week in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), in line with the december declaration of our three institutions. a quick adoption is important so that our proposals can be swiftly transposed by the member states and put into action. it would also send an important message to eu citizens that, when it comes to the energy union, we mean business. ‘we’ being all eu institutions. while negotiations on the legislative proposals are ongoing, my colleagues and i are not sitting and waiting. to the greatest extent possible, the commission will already start the implementation of the energy union on the ground. this is one of the key messages of the second state of the energy union: while 2016 was a ‘year of delivery’, 2017 will be a ‘year of implementation’. what does that mean in practice? it means that, apart from the upcoming legislation on the low-emission mobility, we have delivered on all energy union proposals, and we are now ready for the next phase. the second state of the energy union serves exactly for that next phase. it give us a good overview of where we stand and what has been achieved both at eu and national levels. our thorough analysis shows that the european union is largely on track. for instance, among major global economies, europe is one of the most greenhouse gas efficient. this creates significant ‘first-mover opportunities’ for european companies. but we are in no way in a position to rest on our laurels. other parts of the world are also speeding up their efforts; they are also modernising their economies, and they are also increasing their competitiveness. there is no room for complacency if we want to remain global leaders in areas such as clean technologies. the state of the energy union report therefore also looks forward and identifies the work that still has to be done; it sets the political priorities for this year. in line with the energy union strategy, these priorities go far beyond energy and climate alone. the energy union is about accelerating the modernisation of our entire economy: making it low-carbon; making it efficient in the use of energy and resources; making sure our economy is socially fair and consumer-oriented; and strengthening the energy union’s external dimension. in the current, ever-changing and volatile geopolitical context, we need european global leadership. this is true in the field of climate action but also for safeguarding our competitiveness, jobs and economic interests. such an over-arching approach implies strengthening the ties between the energy union project and other european flagship policies, such as the circular economy, the digital single market, the security union, our skills agenda, the eu’s economy and climate diplomacy, our investment policies, and so on. what does it mean in practice? simply put, when we look at the modernisation of our economy, we will also need to look at: the huge job potential of the green economy; the heavy economic costs of air pollution; the threats of cyber-attacks, and many other areas. it means we must make sure that each and every new measure benefits consumers, especially the vulnerable ones. it means that we will make real progress this year on providing the missing infrastructure links. we will look deeper into how we can avoid stranded assets, for example when preparing the next list of projects of common interest. it means that we must step up even further our investment policies, and for this purpose we will set up investment platforms on the ground in all member states. it also means that we will make europe’s global leadership more concrete by helping the developing world, africa in particular, jump over the fossil age. these are just a few examples to give you the gist of the report. as you can see, a lot remains to be done. with the state of the energy union, i am also launching a second energy union tour. i will once again visit the member states, and i hereby invite you to join me when i visit your constituencies. even in the event that you cannot join me in person, i encourage you to help me bring the message of the energy union to your electorates. help me convey the urgency of the energy transition, and the opportunities it brings to our citizens. as i have mentioned earlier, we intend to make 2017 the energy union’s ‘year of implementation’. i will therefore use this tour to campaign and push for the swift implementation of the energy union not only at national level, but also at local level, which is becoming increasingly important. i will discuss, with government representatives, the importance of presenting their national energy and climate plans. we will together ensure that drafts will be presented by the end of 2017. i will also emphasise the need for a broad consultation of the plans not only within the member states with all relevant stakeholders, but also with the neighbouring member states on a regional level. at the local level, my tour will be a good opportunity to showcase some of the most promising and innovative projects of cities and regions. it is important that we provide such projects with a strong tail-wind and match them with financing. i am glad to share with you that we are actively working on that, in cooperation with the committee of the regions. showing concrete progress on the ground will help our citizens to visualise and grasp the multiple benefits of the clean energy transition. distinguished members, let me once again thank you for your support in realising our joint ambition. i will stop here, as i would like to listen to the comments and suggestions of the honourable members on today’s report.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would just like to remind you that clean energy is of course very important, one of the most important objectives of the energy union, but there is also the other objective that we should not lose sight of, namely energy security. this is a much more basic goal for some people, so often it's like, you know, you want to have energy first, and then you wonder if it's clean energy and if it's energy that you can afford. the basis of energy security (as my colleague has already said) is diversification of supply. however, if we look at the statistics, we see that the situation is not improving, because statistics show that the union's dependence on imported energy resources increased from 52% in 2010 to almost 56% in 2015 and it seems, as forecasts indicate, that it will increase to 60%, so with such a high dependence on external energy resources, diversification is of paramount importance for europe's energy security and should be the cornerstone of the energy union. and above all, there is the issue of new gas sources and independence from the dominant supplier in the east, but on this issue we receive both positive and very worrying signals from the commission. positive developments include a strategy to increase the use of liquefied natural gas and the prospect of support for the northern gateway, which will allow gas to be transported from norway via denmark to poland and other countries on the continent. on the other hand, the projects to bring capacity from the east, such as nordstream2 or the opal pipeline decision, are in clear contradiction with the principles of energy security and are completely incomprehensible to many europeans, and undermine confidence in the european commission. this also applies to the issue of capacity markets this proposal is also controversial, as it will in principle make the union dependent on gas imports. i would ask you to consider these two points, because they are extremely important for many countries and citizens of the european union.
they invented color tvs. the rich people had color tvs, the poor people didn't, but there was no tax to let the poor people buy those tvs. so, within a few years, even the poor had a color tv. if taxes were imposed to buy color tvs for everyone, they would have no color tvs at all or they would have them at the level of soviet products. it's the same with energy. rich countries can have their imaginations and fight for the environment, and poor countries have to be allowed to do as they please. when they get rich, they can fight for the environment. poland needs coal power: cheaper. i want to point out that at this point, europe is already a shell compared to china. in a moment, america will be shooting ahead, and we will also be a pariah compared to the united states, which is ending its fight against global warming. please consider it.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the european commission on having already provided almost all the legislative solutions to the european parliament we are working on them. the energy union is becoming a reality, although we still have to implement it, and above all we need to have constant contact with the citizens so that they feel how important it is to them, because not everyone gets it. this is really an energy union, a union of citizens who can feel safe and have cheaper energy at the same time. we know all this, but the citizens don't know it, and that's one of the factors of our integration. i would like to ask the commissioner what impact the recent statements by the president of the united states will have on our energy policy and on the energy union. they are important to us because, first of all, in my opinion, they threaten the implementation of the paris agreement and we agreed that all the major emitters (we are not as big as the united states) will apply these rules which leads to concrete conclusions and specific questions for us. for example, we agreed that member states would not have binding targets for energy savings or renewable energy sources is anything changing in this respect? we also have proposals from the energy union to reduce emissions from electricity production, and that's for fossil fuels. the united states is going in a very different direction, and these restrictions may eliminate some fuels and make energy more expensive. this directly reduces the competitiveness of our industry in many countries. and another thing, perhaps very specific, we asked the european commission a very important question: are there already known legal bases on which the legality of nordstream2 could be assessed? i'd like to have those questions answered.
mr president, solidarity, as provided for in the lisbon treaty, should be a founding principle of the energy union. the construction of nord stream 2 and decisions about the opal pipeline undermine this principle, making the countries of my region, in particular ukraine, less resilient to russian energy blackmail. both projects also increase the european union’s dependence on one source of energy supplies. this should be considered by the commission.
in writing. the energy union is about building a competitive single energy market and achieving europe's climate goal. energy efficiency is the key tool to achieve these objectives. i would like to return to the issue of doubling the capacity of the northern gas pipeline. nord stream 2 could have a significant impact on these objectives and on security of supply. looking rationally, ignoring the political disagreements, the long-standing disputes and the fears resulting from historical experience, it must be admitted that the construction of the second line of the northern gas pipeline is rational. converting energy from gas to electricity is at least 20% more efficient than coal, while co2 emissions are only 40% of those generated by burning it. an additional physicochemical aspect is the high flexibility of electricity generation, which is perfectly compatible with wind energy. gas turbines are the perfect way to be efficient during what's called peak demand. this will increase energy efficiency in the eu by 30% and more. the designers of nord stream-1 (i wish they had not built yamal-2) understood the geopolitical superiority of this project. a community method will be necessary for a new project. consideration should be given to investments with branches to eu countries in the baltic region, which will allow for community exploitation and pricing. i also think it is appropriate to consider an alternative to nord stream 2 a return to the idea of jamal-2. at the same time, natural gas supplies should be diversified by expanding lng terminals.
in writing. the implementation of the energy union, in particular the provision of energy security to member states, is one of the major challenges facing the ec. energy security should be the overriding principle guiding the commission when developing new legislation. however, the recently published 'clean energy for every european' shows that it is going in the opposite direction. the commission's draft concerns the criteria that member states will have to meet to launch so-called capacity markets. power mechanisms are crucial for the energy security of member states facing energy shortages. each country should therefore be able to shape this market in the way that is most advantageous to it. the commission proposes to introduce a very strict emission limit (550 g co2 per kilowatt hour) for technologies that can be used to build power markets. it's a discrimination against coal technology. this provision is potentially contrary to the eu treaties, which provide that a member state has the right to 'determine the conditions for the use of its energy resources, the choice between different energy sources and the general structure of its energy supply' (article 194 tfeu). the commission's proposal on emission is an attempt to circumvent this principle and put pressure on individual countries to choose energy sources. the commission's preference for environmental protection over member states' energy security is a further source of concern.
in writing. there is no doubt that the main priority of the energy union must be to strengthen the european union's energy security in a spirit of solidarity and trust. in order to make the community more resilient to external energy crises and to reduce its dependence on specific fuels, suppliers and supply routes, it is necessary to take a number of measures to diversify energy supplies by sources, suppliers and routes. the nord stream 2 project, on the other hand, not only hinders the realisation of the energy union, but also undermines the solidarity and mutual trust of the member states. the european commission's attitude is also incomprehensible, as it rightly stresses in all eu strategy papers the need to significantly diversify energy sources and supply routes, while at the same time accepting investment projects that make member states, especially in central and eastern europe, even more dependent on russian gas. the gas pipeline linking russia and germany under the baltic sea is an investment that is incompatible with the interests of the community, the foundations of the energy union and the provisions of the european energy security strategy. i hope that the european commission will finally take action to prevent this harmful project from being carried out.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, when south sudan became independent in 2011 there were high hopes for the future of the world’s newest state. six years later, those hopes lie in tatters. although 18 months of brutal civil war were formally brought to an end by a peace agreement in august 2015, fighting continues throughout much of the country. hundreds, perhaps thousands, continue to die each month. on 1 december last year, the united nations commission on human rights in south sudan noted that a steady process of ethnic cleansing was underway in the country, using starvation, gang rape and the burning of villages. the united nations secretary-general warned in november that south sudan stood on the edge of the abyss, with a catastrophe imminent. around one-and-a-half million refugees have fled to neighbouring countries, while almost two million persons are internally displaced. some four million persons are short of food, with more than one million children under the age of five acutely malnourished. there is a danger of widespread famine later this year. faced with this bleak situation, the european union is very much engaged in addressing these immense challenges. the european union, as a witness to the 2015 peace agreement, is working vigorously to support its implementation. the european union is an active member of the peace monitoring institutions established by the agreement and is providing financial assistance for implementation of parts of the agreement. the european union works as closely as possible with the countries of the region and with the intergovernmental authority on development and the african union collectively to encourage implementation of the peace agreement. although south sudan, much to our regret, has not yet acceded to the cotonou agreement and is therefore not eligible for the full range of development support, the european union remains committed to help. in 2016, the european union provided eur 143 million for humanitarian assistance to south sudan, as well as for supporting the provision of basic services. we fear that this year’s needs maybe even greater. the european union is also providing financial assistance to neighbouring countries to assist them to deal with the enormous influx of refugees. let me take this opportunity to commend uganda, in particular, for its compassion and efficiency in sheltering over 650 000 refugees. the european union has imposed an arms embargo against south sudan and is lobbying – so far without success – for the united nations security council to follow suit. the european union is particularly shocked at the gross violation of international human rights and international humanitarian law that have been perpetrated by all parties with complete impunity. an individual who orders or commits criminal acts of violence must be brought to justice. to this end, the european union stands ready to support the african union in establishing as rapidly as possible the hybrid court for south sudan envisaged in the peace agreement. let us seize the opportunity today to send a number of clear messages to all parties in south sudan. there can be no military solution to the divisions of south sudan. all parties must observe the ceasefire in full and repudiate any speech inciting ethnic hatred. the united nations mission in south sudan must be allowed to exercise its mandate in full, and without hindrance. the regional protection force that was mandated by the un security council last year to reinforce the united nations mission in south sudan must be deployed swiftly. the south sudanese authorities must allow unrestricted humanitarian access to those in need. all parties must be brought into an inclusive political process based on the 2015 peace agreement, which remains a blueprint, if properly implemented, for establishing a functional institutional framework for the state of south sudan. we welcome the national dialogue announced by president salva kiir in december last year. any step to foster dialogue and reconciliation between many groups in south sudan is welcome. a political dialogue and consultation should be representative of, and trusted by, the entire population of south sudan. such a process should be initiated without delay and without obstacles. there is no shortcut to full and fair representation. i urge president salva kiir and the transitional government to look again at the structure of the national dialogue, with a view to ensuring that it is a generally inclusive process. in particular, we hope that a way can be found, and should be found, to allow the south sudanese council of churches, which is widely seen as an impartial interlocutor, to play a central role in the national dialogue. let me also mention the cotonou agreement again. as mentioned, the development needs of south sudan are evidently vast, yet we cannot release all the funds potentially available as long as south sudan has not acceded to the agreement. we urge the transitional government to move forward rapidly with accession. south sudan is, sadly, a country which has known more war than peace. the european union will continue, in close coordination with the united nations, the african union, the united states and the countries of the region, to do everything it can to support the south sudanese leadership to take decisive steps to embrace peace and to build a state that serves the interests of its citizens. thank you very much for your attention. i look forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. despite its vast natural resources, south sudan - the world's youngest and one of the least developed countries - faces a growing humanitarian crisis and instability. the political dispute between the former and the current president has escalated into a violent conflict. there is a massive internal ethnic displacement, with over a million people seeking refuge in neighbouring countries. south sudan is at the top of the world map of humanitarian crisis. so it was very nice to hear from you about the actions that will be taken. i hope they will be implemented very soon, because otherwise we will be faced with the next humanitarian disaster on an international scale. steps must be taken to bring about an immediate cessation of hostilities, which must be accompanied by peaceful political consultations. in this context, the engagement of the african union is important, but the european union should also work to strengthen international cooperation in support of the peace process in south sudan in order to avoid a humanitarian crisis.
mr. chairman, please! the lack of respect for the rule of law, the constitution, the fundamental rights of citizens are actions that contribute to instability and conflict. president kabila's grip on power has led to the bloody suppression of peaceful demonstrations, the persecution of opposition and the curtailment of media freedom. although an agreement was negotiated between kabul and the opposition to hold credible elections in congo this year, the president has not yet signed it. in gabon, the presidential elections were conducted in a chaotic manner, with numerous irregularities reported by observation missions undermining the outcome. the effects of bongo's inauguration were tragic: the country is in crisis, with numerous outbreaks of violence, arrests and restrictions on freedom of speech. i would like to stress that the situation in gabon and the drc has serious repercussions for other countries in central africa and is a threat to the stability of the region, and that the authorities of both countries must therefore engage in an open dialogue with the opposition and conduct objective investigations into the violence and human rights violations related to the elections.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! over 140 million women worldwide - this is the official figure - have been subjected to genital mutilation, over half a million women in the european union. this is an incredible problem: in the 21st century, women are suffering like this! the european parliament has a committee on women's rights and gender equality. you want to know whether the opinion on respect for human rights, which this committee drew up last year, contained this problem? and you're probably thinking, "oh, yes, i'm sure a lot of this review was about this barbarity". well, i want to put you in the clear: not a word about female mutilation. let's deal with these real problems. these women, crippled, are screaming for help. let's not meet at seminars and debates beautiful ladies from rich countries sympathetic to these circumcised women. let's take some real action. let's talk about what's most important to these women. they are waiting for our help, they are crying out to the women and little girls who are also experiencing this suffering. let's not talk, let's do, let's help! let's be realistic about women's issues. i would like to appeal to my colleagues on the committee on women's rights and gender equality: you are aware of this opinion and you have not tabled amendments to it on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing a phenomenon which is clearly reprehensible, and not just because of the values we hold here in europe. we are talking about a phenomenon that is de facto also linked to the restriction of women's sexual freedom and this restriction is justified most often by tradition and religion, but in principle, in my opinion, this justification is most often false. it's really about this barbaric domination of men over women. these are men who want this area of female sexuality for themselves and only for themselves, and in the name of religion or tradition, they cultivate this barbarism that we're talking about. but it's even harder to fight it, because something that's done under the banner of religion, and tradition, is very hard to win. so we need action on many levels, on many planes, not just legal, because de facto, i regret to say, the law always loses to tradition and religion. social education is needed, civil society and ngos must be involved, but also the countries where the practice is practised must be involved in the joint action of the european union and the member states. that is what i would expect from the european commission.
member of the commission. – mr president, just like the last time when we had a heated discussion, today i feel very strong support from parliament for all the strong and efficient measures we have taken against this barbarian habit – or to call it by its proper name, crime and torture. thank you for this, because it is very encouraging. i would like to comment on some of your proposals or comments. i spoke to many professionals, including the people working in the fgm network, which was mentioned here by ms ward, and they always speak about very complex phenomena. of course, i always say that we should do more law enforcement, and fight against this crime by means of criminal justice. but i always hear horrible stories about the custom of taking a girl to africa for a summer holiday and then doing it to her there in africa. when she comes back and the parents or the granny are on european soil could and should be prosecuted, the professionals tell me it would be further trauma for the girl. there are many stories of this kind, so we need to understand very well the complexity of this phenomenon and to use really efficient measures which will bring about a difference. we speak about ‘zero tolerance’: there are several factors which are necessary. the first thing is political will. we must be absolutely clear that there is no excuse for it, based on some something like tradition or culture. this must be absolutely clear to everyone – all politicians, all influential people must know that this is a crime which must be punished. to my taste, we suffer from too much relativism in many other important things. here, we should not do this. the second thing – and i spoke about it before – is that professionals, from teachers to nurses, doctors, police and prosecutors, must understand what this is about and how to fight against it and engage with it. thirdly, the law enforcement side, which i have also mentioned: there must be no excuse, but there must also be proper provision of care to the victims, because this must be balanced. and the fourth thing, which i find the most difficult but also the most important factor, is that we here with a kind of taboo. in violence against women, we fight against the fact that quite a large part of our societies think that it is normal. with fgm, we see that we have to fight against a taboo. i myself go to many conferences, i speak to many people, and i always mention fgm because it must be heard by hundreds of thousands of people in europe, and i always receive the same reaction: ‘what? fgm in europe in the 21st century?’ there is such a low awareness about this phenomenon that we have to do more, and i agree with some of the comments i heard here that it must not be at our seminars and conferences where the people who know about it are participating. we must not invade the open door – we have to address the communities where this barbaric habit is being carried out. as you know we are now running a campaign against violence against women. to my disappointment, the member states where we have identified high numbers – france, portugal, uk, sweden, belgium, cyprus, ireland, italy, the netherlands and spain, and i am naming without shaming but we must be aware of where this happening – have not asked for money to fight against this. but i don’t want to say that they are not doing anything, because they have their own policy, and it was said here clearly that first of all it is the task of the member states to take the necessary action against this. but, coming back to the need to address the communities, we have opened the call for proposals for the ngos, and i will encourage the ngos from these countries which i mentioned to ask for the funding and to go more closely into the communities and to work on the ground. this is to be closed on 8 march. there is eur 6 million. if you know about those ngos who could help, please let them know. this is now a practical thing. i know i have been speaking for too long, but i will finalise quickly. i have mentioned the member states where we see high figures, but the statistics are still very inaccurate. we still do not have proper data collection, and this is also connected with the taboo factor. we have to be much better, and as i said we are working with the agency on gender equality. we are also pushing for the adoption of the istanbul convention. i will talk about it tomorrow with maltese minister ms helena dalli, who is very much engaged with it. i hope we can achieve it at the march council or in june. we have the signatures of 28 member states, but the ratification of only 14, unfortunately. ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your support. fgm is one of those matters where i will always feel we do not do enough, that we need to do more, and that if we do it together it will be more successful. thank you very much for your future cooperation.
commissioner jourová, thank you very much, especially for your last speech. every minute we listened to you was a minute we gained. you have received in this room not only the support you asked for, but also the encouragement, even the appeal, and that over and above the divisions. please be efficient. thank you very much, sir. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by ms marielle de sarnez on behalf of the committee on international trade on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 19/2013 on the implementation of the bilateral safeguard clause and stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, and amending regulation (eu) no 20/2013 on the implementation of the bilateral safeguard clause and stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and central america, of the other part (com (2015) 0208 - c8-0131/2015 - 2015/0121 (cod)) (com (2016) 0278 (cod))
mr president, by joining the eu-columbia and peru trade agreement, ecuador will enjoy improved access for the main exports to the eu, such as fisheries, cut flowers, coffee, cocoa, fruits and nuts. although banana imports will also benefit from our preferential rate, an additional stabilisation mechanism will protect european producers from potential import surges. a better and more stringent system of information, based on reliable statistics on the trends in imports of bananas from three countries to the eu, will be in place. in particular, when volumes of these imports reach 80% of the threshold the commission must inform the european parliament and the council, giving them an analysis of the impact of these imports. however, preferences can be suspended if the annual threshold has been reached. with all this in place, i can fully support this proposal.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 2 february 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by ms linnea engström on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1006/2008 (com (2015) 0636 - c8-0393/2015 - 2015/0289 (cod)) (a8-0377/2016).
the new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets provided an excellent opportunity to introduce clear, equal and fair rules for the functioning of the union's fishing fleet and that of third countries. however, instead of simplifying rules and procedures, it is introducing a greater bureaucratic burden for both shipowners and member states' administrations. moreover, the union fleet will be able to be discriminated against against by third countries' fleets, as third country vessels will not have to meet all administrative requirements. the union fleet may therefore be crowded out of the market by the fleet of third countries. moreover, by imposing onerous requirements on shipowners, this regulation may prevent direct authorisations from being issued. and on the 30th amendment, you really have to be very careful, because i'm personally against double jeopardy.
mr president, while seeking the sustainable exploitation of the seas, we should not forget about increasing the effectiveness of the current system. we also need to remember to promote a level playing field for union operators, contrary to the third country operators. most importantly, we have to create this level playing field. i am talking about the effective closure of the eu market for products coming from third country vessels that do not meet the requirements of this legislation. the eu should create a level playing field so that eu fishing vessels can compete with vessels from third countries. finally, i would like to mention the important article 5.1(d). i fully agree with the fact that this point implies a double sanction for this sector and could seriously hurt the fishing activities of the long—distance fleet. we should not forget that the eu external fishing fleet is already subject to sanctions for serious infringements by the control and iuu regulations. we have to remember this because it puts additional and unnecessary strain on our operators. in doing so, we will only hurt the sector and will also hurt the environment because we are the most important and most responsible operators on the seas all over the world.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone once again for this fruitful discussion. this week, i had the pleasure of discussing with many of you the importance of ocean governance at the seas, rivers, islands and coastal areas intergroup. your vote on this proposal will be a very important step towards improving ocean governance overall. it will contribute to the sustainable exploitation of global fisheries resources. the european union must be seen to act responsibly outside its own waters if we expect others also to fish sustainably. we are accountable for the actions of our own fleets. we need to provide these vessels with clear, simple and coherent rules in order to ensure that fishing authorisations are granted on objective and proportionate eligibility criteria, and that vessel activities are constantly monitored and transparent. the commission proposal, which you will soon discuss in trialogues, presents an approach that will achieve these objectives. i welcome ms engström’s report, which reinforces our policy objectives and brings in some constructive suggestions as well. turning to some of the specific points raised by members this evening, some of you do not agree that past serious infringements should be taken into account in granting authorisations – i am referring to amendment 30. i think that this measure is proportionate and justified. we should ensure that only good conduct vessels are allowed to fish outside eu waters, and the absence of serious – let stress and underline the word ‘serious’ – infringements in the last 12 months is a good indication of good conduct. it is also a cost—effective way to control who can fish outside our waters and who cannot. there were also some comments on the clawback clause. the european union is responsible before third countries and international organisations for the activities of its vessels operating outside eu waters. not having a legal basis to stop fishing vessels from causing harm without the impunity of the flagged member state would put the european union in a situation of not being able to comply with its international obligation of due diligence, as pointed out by the international tribunal for the law of the sea (itlos). the clawback clause allows the commission to withdraw a fishing authorisation in cases where member states do not stop fishing vessels flying their flag in the cases provided by the law and where those vessels continue fishing, causing harm. there was also some mention of the dormant agreements and, although we sympathise, we cannot accept them for legal reasons. we understand that this is an important issue for a number of members, and our proposal addresses direct authorisations with the objective of ensuring sustainability. this may eventually lead to our reviewing dormant agreements in the context of the negotiation of sustainable fishing partnership agreements. some comments were also made about the minimum length of vessel fleets. i have to say that it is very difficult to quantify the effect of the amendment, because we do not have information on high seas fisheries conducted by the eu vessels. however, to give you an idea, in 2015 there were around 70 000 eu vessels licensed to fish in our fmos, with the bulk coming from the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) and the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). in the mediterranean, most of the vessels are small—scale and normally fish on the high seas, although not adding a minimum length may bring problems of monitoring and control as well, because not all vessels are obliged to carry vms, ais and imo numbers. some of you also expressed concern about data protection. as i have already said, we believe that the balance between information requirements and privacy in the proposal is the right one, but i am happy to look at proposals that would improve transparency within the limit of our data protection rules. i am sure that this will be an issue for intense discussion in the trialogues. i look forward to further working with parliament in a good spirit of cooperation as we take this file forward.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 2 february 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
member of the commission. – mr president, this year we are celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of erasmus, one of the eu’s biggest success stories. this is the perfect opportunity for us to take stock of how we have moved from erasmus to erasmus+ and to celebrate what we have achieved so far. it is also a greater opportunity to debate where we want to take the programme in the future. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament has appointed a standing rapporteur for the erasmus+ programme who keeps a critical eye on its implementation. i want to thank mr sver and his shadow rapporteurs for their positive and constructive report, and their suggestions, especially with a view to the upcoming mid-term evaluation of erasmus+. i welcome this report, and i am very happy to comment on some of the points it raises. i am fully aware that erasmus+ had some teething problems in its first year. merging various former programmes into one and trying to apply uniform rules to the whole programme was not an easy task, but we have overcome these initial difficulties i am therefore pleased that your report recognises the efforts the commission has put and continues to put into improving the implementation of the programme. this would not have been possible without your regular feedback and without us closely cooperating with our stakeholders and national agencies who implement the programme at national level. your report rightly identifies the cross-sectorial approach as a main feature of erasmus+. as you point out, we have seen many positive developments over the course of only a couple of years. what we do in education, training, youth and sport is much more visible. we have built bridges between these fears which has led to an exchange of ideas, and has also translated into a significant increase in the funding available to the benefit of all beneficiaries. moreover, funding rules have been streamlined and simplified funding mechanisms such as lump sums have been widely introduced. communication to beneficiaries has been streamlined and, finally, this leaner management has made the programme more flexible, so that it can respond to changing political priorities. i am very proud that erasmus+ is a much more open and inclusive programme than its predecessors. first of all, erasmus+ is much more than student mobility. it is about learners in vocational education and training, and youth workers. it is about providing practical support to teachers and helping organisations and educational institutions to forge international partnerships. it is about kick—starting innovation across the fields of education, training and youth. it is about supporting our sports organisations, and much more. erasmus+ also covers important horizontal dimensions. to name just one: language learning. language learning is definitely a must in today’s world. this is why erasmus+ provides flexible online linguistic support in many languages. the programme also offers additional funding to disadvantaged learners, including people who come from difficult socio-economic backgrounds, or who have special needs, because these people are the ones who need the extra boost to participate in the programme. i am happy to see that as a result of our efforts, one out of ten mobility participants come from disadvantaged backgrounds or have fewer opportunities. i believe that inclusion and accessibility go hand in hand. i am therefore glad to read in your report that you appreciate our attempts to simplify the application procedures through a range of digital solutions. we have established a strong relationship with our national agencies and beneficiaries. my services have put in place a long-term it action plan to adapt our it tools to the needs of participants and to make the tools as user—friendly as possible. we have already achieved high satisfaction rates here, but we will keep up the work. thanks to the use of online application forms and the online programme guide, we are now moving to the next level of digitalisation. this is in line with the call included in your report. let me stress one more thing: if we are to ensure the future success of the programme and the positive impact it has on the lives of so many young people across europe, we need adequate funding. already now, the programme is heavily over-subscribed, and as you rightly say in your report, it creates frustration when high—quality projects have to be turned down for the simple reason of lack of funds. given the back—loading of the programme, which means that most of the funds earmarked for erasmus+ will be spent between now and 2020 when the current programme ends, we need an increase of funds for the next programming period, just to maintain current funding levels. the thirtieth anniversary of erasmus+ this year provides us with an excellent opportunity to make the case for such an increase. as you know, just last week we organised a launch event at the parliamentarium for a year full of anniversary events all across europe. i would like to invite you all to get involved in these events, as we have so much to learn from listening to the erasmus generation and their ideas. we need to involve them in building a stronger, better europe. honourable members, your report is a manifestation of our shared dedication to the programme and of our constructive relationship. i want to thank you for the time and effort you have devoted to drafting it. let me assure you that your conclusions and recommendations will be carefully taken into account in the ongoing mid-term evaluation of the programme. together we can make sure that erasmus+ will continue to be one of europe’s greatest success stories.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. erasmus is one of the most important programmes that is helping to create a new generation of europeans. a generation that sees international mobility and multiculturalism as an opportunity, not a threat. the quality of the programme, its efficiency and its transparency must therefore be a concern for all of us. the report by mr zvera that we are discussing actually identifies the problems. i would like to draw attention to three aspects of this programme. firstly, there is the availability. despite some improvement, the socially selective nature of participation in mobility still persists. many low-income people cannot afford to participate in the programme without the help of third parties. in order to increase the participation opportunities for these people, it is necessary, commissioner, to adjust the level of the grant to the cost of living in the host country. the second issue is the budget. that's what the commissioner said. it is true that the funds are insufficient because of the enormous popularity of the programme, but it is therefore unacceptable to create new, even good, programmes which are funded by erasmus, such as the european solidarity corps. i also propose that for those good projects that are rejected for lack of funds, a patent should be introduced to distinguish them so that they have priority in reaching for funds from other sources. third, there are student loans. a critical assessment of the student loan guarantee facility is necessary. only 130 people have ever used this instrument. i call on the commission to present, in consultation with parliament, a strategy for the reallocation of the part of the budget that is unlikely to be used until 2020. the last question i ask is what does this successful programme mean for the education systems of the member states? the most important educational mobility should be a permanent part of the curriculum foundation, both in academic education and in professional development. it is my sincere hope that this is how the member states will honour the 30th anniversary of erasmus.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. as we heard today, all the speeches by my colleagues show that this is a very good programme, especially if we look at it from the perspective of 30 years of successful european integration. but as with any instrument that works well, many of the statements and comments today also concern the way erasmus+ is, was and will be. it's a problem with success, but success is always about working and supporting it. i will not repeat all the arguments that many colleagues have used, but the fact that the programme will offer further opportunities for 4 million europeans to study, train or volunteer between 2014 and 2020 is an interesting element. this would not have been possible without an increase in the budget the 40% increase in funding and the integration of all youth education and training programmes is having an effect in the form of the erasmus+ programme. and also - and this is very important from my personal perspective - it finally includes sports. but for the long-term success of the programme, it is essential that the commission works towards further increasing the budget of the programme, also in the subsequent period of its implementation, and continues its efforts to simplify the procedures related to the programme. first of all, i would like to call for a clear message to be sent to the beneficiaries of the programme and for the tools available to the national agencies to be improved.
in writing. as a polish mep, i wanted to refer to the report on the implementation of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing erasmus+, the eu programme for education, training, youth and sport. the erasmus+ programme, launched in 2014, combined several smaller programmes in the fields of education, training and youth, and also included the sport sector as a new area of support for the first time. it is currently the main instrument for supporting activities in the fields of education, training, youth and sport and as such should be positively assessed and further implemented. unfortunately, the shape of the erasmus+ implementation report, which contained recommendations for its further development, forced me to refrain from voting. the rapporteur omits the problematic aspects of the programme, as well as proposals for their correction, even though these are constantly pointed out by the stakeholders themselves, i.e. the academic community. moreover, the report's presentation of mobility as the main objective of the programme, while forgetting its real objective of improving the quality of education, gives the erasmus+ programme a consumer character. the rapporteur also suggests a return to so-called soft skills rather than promoting the acquisition of real knowledge. in conclusion, i personally find the erasmus+ framework programme extremely valuable and will support its implementation, but i was concerned about the shape of the report, its premise and the attempt to smuggle many of its polemical phrases into its content.
in writing. erasmus is one of the most recognised and positively evaluated eu programmes. the 30th anniversary is a good occasion not only to celebrate but also to reflect more broadly on how to improve it further and how other policies and initiatives can build on this success story. increasing the budget for this year by over 12% is a good decision. i believe that only adequate funding will ensure the inclusive approach that is so essential to the success of this programme. it is also important to fully exploit the potential of not only student exchanges but also all other elements of the programme, as erasmus+ is also staff exchanges or university cooperation, which is not always as visible. new elements have also been introduced into the programme with the new financial perspective, but their visibility needs to be further strengthened. the erasmus programme has produced clear, tangible results, and this has been a major factor in its success. i agree with the rapporteur that to maintain this trend, the programme must be kept transparent, changing only what needs to be simplified and what will make it easier for beneficiaries to use the programme. the specific objectives should, however, retain their separate budget, which will facilitate their achievement and increase their effectiveness. i believe that many of these principles can also be applied to other eu programmes.
in writing. i consider the erasmus+ implementation report to be crucial both for reviewing the programme's performance over the last two and a half years since its establishment and for formulating recommendations for its further implementation. i would also point out that the conclusions drawn by the rapporteur and the other members of the committee on culture and education should provide valuable guidance for the european commission when preparing the mid-term evaluation report of the programme, which is expected at the end of 2017. as rapporteur for the 2016 and 2017 budgets of the ep's committee on culture and education, i would like to pay particular attention to the aspects related to the funding of erasmus+. the budget of the programme has been considerably increased compared to the previous edition. this year's increase of 40% is a sign that the political and economic value of the programme has been recognised. while acknowledging and appreciating the work done so far to improve the implementation arrangements for the implementation of the programme, i would like to stress that continuous monitoring of the effectiveness of its financial management is necessary to maintain the high level of effectiveness of the programme and its undeniable reputation as one of the flagship successes of european integration.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate mr takkuli on this important report at a time when the reputation of sport, the image of sports federations, is under severe strain. the european parliament must send a strong political signal to federations, unions, athletes and fans that fair play applies not only on the pitch but also in the management of sport. the key issue is good governance in sports federations, which are at the top of the european sports model. recent scandals have shown that profound changes and reforms are needed. efforts should also be made to prevent criminal activities that threaten sport: doping, trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of minors. i would also like to call on the maltese presidency to take action to enable the council of europe convention on match-fixing to be signed and ratified. as a former athlete, i particularly appreciate the support in the report for effective dual career systems and access to further education and mobility for athletes.
in writing. sport is not just about competition and excitement for the fans. sport also has great educational potential. that is why we must eliminate from sport all manifestations of corruption, doping and dishonest practices, so as not to lose this essential educational role of sport. sport can also help to shape pro-social attitudes and to combat contemporary challenges such as radicalisation and xenophobia. sport is also a major factor in the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups and people with disabilities. educational projects are therefore needed to promote equal opportunities, fair competition and practice in sport, drawing on ancient patterns of harmonious development of mind and body. the erasmus+ programme, which we have just discussed, is an important tool of the union's sport policy, which allows us to support anti-doping projects and good governance in sport. the improvement of the dual career system to provide for the future of athletes after their sporting career should also be an important element of this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, french socialist authorities have taken action to impose drastic censorship on speech in defense of the life of the unborn. the european union authorities so eager to pursue real or imagined threats to human rights have accepted this with tacit approval. as a result, the first and already extreme bill prepared in the national assembly was further radicalized in the senate. these repressive measures against the french people who defend the first of human rights - the right to life of the weakest - are a grim testimony to the totalitarian drift of modern europe, and the tacit approval, which i called on president timmermans to stop, compromises the current authorities of the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it was a long way for georgians, regardless of their political option. it was a long way for many of us participating in the first congress of polish solidarność, extending a friendly message to all nations suffering under communist rule. i welcome this report, and i await quick decisions concerning ukraine.
mr president, i would like to give special thanks to mariya gabriel, the rapporteur. i would like to take this one minute and turn to georgia’s citizens. dear georgians, today’s decision of the european parliament is one of the last miles in your visa liberalisation marathon. you deserve it, and i am proud to be part of the decision by voting in favour. liberalisation of the visa regime provides you with a lot of opportunities and advantages. use it to the benefit of the development of your country. to meet the visa liberalisation benchmarks was a challenge to which you have risen. there will be more reform challenges from the association agenda to meet. i am convinced that the decision on visa liberalisation will yield even more energy and enthusiasm to deliver on those new challenges. dear georgians, your country is not suspicious. you are a very proud, brave european nation. i am keeping my fingers crossed.
i feel like i've been part of a historical debate. i'm glad i was driving it. i greet our georgian friends in the public galleries. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 2 february 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i support the joint proposal of the european parliament and the council on the exemption of georgian citizens from the visa requirement within the european union if they hold biometric passports. recall that georgia took the first step by lifting the visa requirement for citizens of all eu countries if their stay in georgia does not exceed 90 days. adopting similar measures in relation to georgian citizens will be an important instrument for strengthening cultural and economic ties with that country. georgia is a key partner of the eu within the framework of the common neighbourhood policy. we should be interested in a gradual rapprochement between the eu and georgia. this solution will be particularly relevant for students, researchers, teachers and entrepreneurs. at the same time, however, the eu should monitor the situation in georgia, stressing the importance of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary in that country.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr tadeusz zwiefka on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on the cross-border aspects of adoption (2015/2086 ((inl)) (a8-0370/2016).
the rapporteur. - i'm not going to tell you. fellow workers! when we started working on this report in the legal affairs committee, we asked ourselves one fundamental question: what is the real purpose of the adoption procedure? the answer was simple and clear to all: the goal is to create a good, friendly, loving environment for the proper development of the child. the best interests of the child are the primary objective for which adoption proceedings are conducted. the agreement on this statement was a very good starting point for the discussion of the content of the report, which i finally divided into two parts. in part 1, we discuss various aspects of adoption procedures. it seems that even though they're improving every year, there are still serious gaps, there are still question marks that need to be answered. i therefore call for the creation of minimum standards, which would allow all the member states of the european union to follow the same rules. what are these minimum standards? first of all, respect for the child's individuality. a child is an individual human being, not someone's property. so in adoption proceedings, where possible, the child should be heard before a decision is made. it is also difficult to imagine adoption decisions being made without consulting the biological parents, if they are alive, without their consent or before the procedural line is exhausted in terms of depriving the biological parents of parental authority. there are still a lot of issues like this. we also talked about how the 1993 hague convention on intercountry adoption works. it is an important instrument, a very important document, but it only regulates those adoptions which are carried out in a cross-border aspect. it doesn't say how we should help each other with domestic adoption. i also raise in my report the issue of training judges and staff of adoption centres who deal with this subject, so that procedures are similar, so that we approach the issue of the best interests of the child in a similar way. i want to make it very clear that there is not a single word in the report about changing the family law. we know very well that this is the exclusive competence of the member states and that is how it should remain. where possible, we should work together to develop procedures that will ensure the best interests of the child in an even more appropriate way. this is why i am putting forward a legislative proposal in the second part of my report: i am asking the european commission to prepare a proposal for a council regulation on the recognition of national adoptions. national adoptions, carried out under national law, take place in situations where both the adoptive parents and the adopted child are present, reside in the same country, are nationals of the same country. when they move to another country, these procedures must be repeated. this is obviously a financial and time-consuming problem and creates legal uncertainty. the introduction of automatic mutual recognition of national adoption decisions would therefore change and improve this situation. i'm also petitioning for a multilingual adoption certificate, similar to the probate certificate we adopted two years ago, which is working very well.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to let you go. i would just like to ask how it is possible that on the one hand you accept the 1993 hague convention, which regulates only cross-border, international adoptions (against which you later speak somewhat illogically), and on the other hand you do not want to accept the respect of an adoption decision made in your country. after all, governments always try to respect national legal systems. and that's what this report is about, to respect the national legal system.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in short, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken in today's debate, showing their unambiguous support for this approach to adoption. it's a very important procedure, because we're talking about our children, our future. ensuring the well-being of the child, his proper development is our absolute duty and priority. with full respect for the provisions of the 1993 hague convention on intercountry adoption, it refers only to intercountry adoptions. the report we are voting on in this house today is about the recognition of national adoption decisions, and that is the fundamental difference. we have no regulations in this area. hence my proposal, which has been very widely supported in today's debate and which meets the expectations of parents that moving to another member state should not complicate their lives if they are accompanied by adopted children. i would like to thank all those who have worked with me on this report. it is not difficult to imagine how many different issues could be raised in such a report, but i thank my colleagues for being willing to focus on the work in the field that i made clear at the beginning, that we did not include in this report issues that cannot be included in it. i thank you very much again for the debate and for the commission's promise that we will be preparing further regulations to make life easier for our families.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 2 february 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. compliance with article 21 of the un convention on the rights of the child should form the basis for all procedures, actions and strategies concerning cross-border adoptions. in this context, it is necessary to improve citizens' access to full information on the legal and procedural aspects of national adoption in the member states, which would facilitate intercountry adoption and thus increase the number of children adopted. i agree that e-justice could be a good place to look for such information. i believe that the european commission should investigate complaints about cross-border adoptions without parental consent. these things shouldn't happen. where the child to be adopted is a national of another member state, any decision should be preceded by consultation with the consular authorities of that country and with the child's family residing there. the european ombudsman for children should be encouraged to cooperate and coordinate more closely within the framework of the european network of ombudsmen for children. such actions could include participation in eu-funded projects in the field of judicial training.
in writing. there is currently no mechanism in the european union for the automatic recognition of national adoption decisions issued in the member states. complications can therefore arise where a child has been adopted under a national system and the parents then decide to move to another member state. in such cases, such families may be required to undergo additional, special procedures for the recognition of adoptions in another member state or even for the re-adoption of the child. and if the adoption is not recognized, it means that the parents will face obstacles in exercising parental authority. for example, they will not be able to register their children for school or give their consent for surgery if their child becomes ill. legal uncertainty in this area can therefore constitute a significant obstacle to the free movement of families. i therefore consider that the recognition of national adoptions should be automatic, unless such recognition would be contrary to the public policy of the member state concerned or the member state in which the adoption took place would not have jurisdiction. these two exceptions should be retained. they are also included in the legislative proposal. i would therefore like to express my full support for the text proposed by mr zwiefka.
madam president! i would like to point out that this report is in fact a call for action: a call for action against doping, a call for clean sport, but also a call for various tax cuts. and i want to make it very clear that this is the key thing, it's aimed primarily at children and those who are involved in mass sports. that is why i supported the report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. i would like to point out that we started working on the erasmus+ report from emerging opinions that questioned the programme as such. there are a lot of young people in this room today, and i want to make it very clear that we are ending this report with a 40 percent increase in scholarship funding. this is a very important success. at the same time, i would add that we have reduced the so-called commitments required, which has improved the implementation of the programme and has a positive impact on the opinions that are being expressed about it at the moment. i would like to thank everyone very much for working on this report, which was quite long and accompanied the 2014 and then the 2015 budget implementation report.
madam president! any action to promote the use of low-risk biological pesticides is very much needed, if not necessary, to reduce the risks posed by commonly used chemical pesticides and other ubiquitous xenoestrogens, which are responsible for epidemics of cancer, fertility problems and even gender identity disorders. only a reduction in chemicals in agriculture, coupled with a return to biological agents with a precautionary approach and a shorter implementation is likely to improve food quality and consumer health, especially since two thirds of the world's antibiotic production is fed to animals, leading to antibiotic resistance. any fears that farmers have about rising costs or declining yields are unfounded, as the experience of countries that have significantly reduced their use of pesticides shows. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. there are currently six measures in the union that are accepted and i think that these should be explored and introduced. i can't answer you right now. i just know that it's a necessity, especially with chemicals that are very toxic and -- as i said, and i'm a doctor -- are responsible for a lot of diseases.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. this is a very important conversation about biological pesticides with very low risk. i think that these measures are a very good alternative to organic farming - which is particularly emphasized - but also to traditional farming. it is also emphasised here that the range of traditional chemicals used as pesticides is indeed also decreasing. for the various reasons that have been mentioned here. the problem is the registration process for active substances of organic and inorganic origin, which is multiannual, costly and also not feasible for companies outside the traditional pesticide chemistry sector. the availability of biological and other low-risk substances for pesticide production requires support from both the european commission and the member states. and i think that citizens who are increasingly looking for food that is not protected by pesticides, by active substances derived from chemical synthesis (due to antibiotic resistance, civilization diseases, for example allergies), will also greatly support this direction of our actions and thinking.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened closely to this very interesting debate and i am grateful to this house for taking such an active interest in this important issue. i have taken careful note of your views and opinions, which will of course be given due consideration by the commission. some of you asked why so few low—risk active substances have been approved up to now, but may i mention once again that this is because of the very strict regulatory framework. regulation 1107/2009 allows the identification of a low—risk active substance only when the substance is going to be approved or its old approval under directive 91/414 is renewed. this is the reason why only seven – of course, six of them are biological – low—risk substances have been identified and have been in force from january 2016. however, the majority of potential low—risk substances approved under directive 91/414 have been prioritised for a renewal assessment, which will be carried out in the next three years. we will, of course, see how we can intensify such a process. let me repeat that the parliament and the commission are united in supporting the broad aim of facilitating the wider use of biological low—risk, plant protection products, whilst ensuring that we maintain our high level of safety, because the european union is very proud of the very strict regulatory environment and the very high food safety standards. thank you once again for your valuable considerations and contributions.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to start by thanking mr norbert very much for his excellent cooperation in this report. i would also like to thank all the counter-rapporteurs for their constructive comments and cooperation. at the heart of our report was a reference to the united nations sustainable development goals and a renewed commitment to eradicating poverty and combating discrimination and inequality through the development policies of the union and its member states. the report focuses on the coherence of internal and external development policies. it should be the main element of the union's strategy to achieve the sustainable development goals. action by member states and at union level must complement and reinforce each other and take into account the potential impact on developing countries. in this respect, an effective mechanism for monitoring and evaluating this impact should be put in place. official development assistance should remain the cornerstone of the union's development policy. for this reason, the new consensus should also include a commitment for member states to achieve a target of 0,7% of gross national income by 2030. good governance has a special role to play in sustainable development and the economic, social and environmental balance should be strengthened by supporting national sustainable development strategies and good governance mechanisms and processes, including the involvement of civil society. development aid must be effective, and therefore a sense of ownership, transparency and democratic involvement of all stakeholders are crucial. in the light of the migration and refugee crisis, the essential role of development cooperation in addressing the causes of forced migration and displacement should be underlined. politically stable countries are less vulnerable and less susceptible to situations that can lead to mass and forced migration. migration-related development assistance is important for stabilising situations, maintaining the functioning of states and ensuring dignified conditions for displaced persons. as regards the link between development and security, it should be stressed that development assistance instruments may be used for security policy purposes, but only in relation to the objective of poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development. the union must promote the equitable sharing of wealth by developing countries through national budgets, that is, both within and between countries. european development aid should distinguish between the situations of individual countries and their development needs. microeconomic indicators or political considerations should not serve as the sole basis for such differentiation.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union was instrumental in shaping the global 2030 agenda, which is fully consistent with europe’s vision and has now become the world’s blueprint for global sustainable development. it is important that we fully take account of the sustainable development goals in the european internal and external policy framework and current commission priorities. development policy in the form of a new european consensus on development can make a central contribution in this direction. therefore, the consensus is to be taken and defined together with our internal actions on a sustainable european future and our internal policies implementation, aimed at reaching sustainable development goals at home. this includes taxation policy where our actions against tax evasion, tax base erosion and illicit financial flows in the eu should guide and inspire our external actions on the collect-more-spend-better initiative within our partner countries. the commission proposal provides the basis for the discussions ahead. at the same time, this resolution sends an important political message – that the european parliament is actively engaged in shaping the future of the european union’s development policy and is committed to eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable development by 2030 worldwide, ensuring that no one is left behind. the commission is committed to working closely together with parliament and with the member states to ensure that the final consensus is exactly that – a true consensus owned by all eu institutions and all our member states, able to spur action that can change lives across the world for the better.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank all my colleagues for their comments and comments during this debate. i would add that the international situation has changed considerably since the previous consensus was adopted. we have new challenges, of course, but also new opportunities and instruments. the revised framework for the union's external cooperation in the form of the global agenda 2030 strategy and other agreements such as the paris agreement on climate change, the addis ababa plan on financing for development and the busan agreement on the effectiveness of development aid are important drivers of this change. i am convinced that the adoption of the resolution will be a clear statement by parliament on the new development consensus which is to set the objectives and policy directions of the european union and the member states for 2030. parliament's resolution on consensus will serve as our mandate in the negotiations and dialogue with the maltese presidency representing the council, the european commission and the external action service, which will lead to the final text. as the priority of the maltese presidency is to conclude the negotiations before the european development days, i hope that an agreement will be reached covering all the key elements of development policy and also indicating a concrete strategy for its implementation by the european union and the member states. as mr norbert has said, there is not much time left before the european development days in june, but i do not think that time will be an important element in these negotiations, but they must be effective because it is the most important element, because the text being prepared is precisely the strategy for the long years ahead in development policy.
madam president! the eu ets is important for the future. unfortunately, it creates a negative investment climate in europe, because operators do not know what the price of the allowances will be and how they will be protected against competition from third countries. moreover, the proposed eu ets will increase emissions leakage and thus job losses in the union, as well as worsening the living conditions of people in poorer countries. however, there are also positive elements in this report. thank you for appreciating the importance of the district heating i've been pursuing. unfortunately, there are far more elements in the report with which i cannot agree. first of all, by the restrictive increase in emission reduction rates, the artificial raising of the price of allowances, the manipulation of the market stability reserve and the incomprehensible attack on the cement sector, or the attempt to limit the compensatory mechanisms that the council has provided for the energy sector in the poorer member states.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs for their hard work. this is a very important report indeed. it will not only determine whether we meet our climate targets, but also whether the european economy can defend itself, especially now that some of the world's biggest emitters are pulling out of the paris commitments. it is worth going back to the solutions proposed by the industry committee. i must emphasize very strongly some of these solutions, such as not increasing the linear reduction coefficient or the need for free allowances for cement producers. it is very important that we leave this modernisation fund, which is important for many countries, in the hands of the beneficiary countries with the advice of the european investment bank. i repeat, if we really want to win the fight against climate change, we need the economic strength of europe to protect the climate, so let's take care of the economic strength of europe.
in writing. before we start talking about any reform of the eu's pseudo-market ets, we should have a detailed analysis of what the current system has done. that's not the analysis. this much-criticised system is unfair to countries that are 'less economically advanced'. it is an unequal burden for the citizens of the member states. the following questions arise: 1. why is the ets not internally consistent? why is it not about energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy? 2. why is this system so one-sidedly restrictive and does not take into account the possibility of making money by capturing and absorbing co2? why does it not consider heating and cooling as the most effective way to reduce co2? 4. should we not set emission benchmarks at the national level? we need to have a fundamental discussion. this is a problem for industry in many member states, for whom the commission's current proposals may be a hamlet of 'to be or not to be'. let's not rush into a system that hasn't worked yet.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign trade. madam president! we talk about the past, but we have to refer to the future. and here we have to remember that there is no free market, there is no good development without fair competition. however, this is disturbed by a number of adverse factors. there are local, regional and national particularities which also affect our common single market. another issue is public assistance. the unequal treatment of private companies and state-owned or state-funded companies, the existence of natural monopolies, for example in the utilities sector, sensitive sectors - particularly energy, transport, telecommunications, public procurement, financial services - and international trade. this is a separate issue, but it is very important because our principles of fair competition should and must also apply to our trading and investment partners around the world.
in writing. strengthening the protection of the european union's financial interests and combating fraud, which are among the most important elements of the eu's political agenda, play a huge role in increasing citizens' trust in the eu institutions. both the commission and the member states should give the fight against fraud and the protection of those who contribute to the effective fight against irregularities the highest priority. in many member states, there is only partial protection for whistleblowers through provisions in different laws, which means that there is no separate law and therefore no practice for whistleblower protection. this has the effect of significantly limiting the ability to effectively combat abuse and corruption. it is therefore important to establish mechanisms to protect whistleblowers in the european union, including through the establishment of an independent body to advise, inform and assist whistleblowers. in order to be fully effective, the whistleblower protection mechanism should also cover undertakings, public authorities and non-profit organisations. it should also protect whistleblowers who are at risk of retaliation by the institution where the irregularity occurs. each member state should ensure that union and international standards and guidelines on the protection of whistleblowers are correctly implemented in its national legislation. only this form of action will allow for the full protection of whistleblowers, who are increasingly influencing the fight against irregularities.
madam president! the recent death of a young woman from thrombocytopenia following the use of third generation hormonal contraceptives in the british press should also be a warning here as well as the thousands of complications following the use of contraceptive pills not only for women who use them, but for all those who defend the right to an abortion. women are now addicted to hormones from an early age, from acne treatment, followed by hormonal contraception, which results in severe menstrual disorders, subsequent miscarriages, various cancers, also at an early age, cardiovascular diseases, and ovarian failure after the age of 35, which requires the use of equally dangerous hormone replacement therapy. the only tangible benefits from such hormone therapies are being made by the wealthy pharmaceutical companies and, of course, the in vitro propagandists.
madam president! the european commissioner for justice, vera jourová, has said that budgetary sanctions will be imposed on poland if it does not accept the european public prosecutor's office. i call on the president of the european commission to clearly distance himself from these words and to ask ms very jourová to resign from her seat in the european commission on the basis of article 17 of the treaty on european union. the commissioner's declaration is a very manifest manifestation of the tendency to impose the imperial power of the institutions of the european union on the countries of europe, contrary to their law, contrary to our common law of treaties and contrary to the will of the peoples. high isbo! this trend is not only detrimental to my country and to the individual countries of the european union, but it is also detrimental to european cooperation and the union itself, because such actions only deepen the chaos and crisis on our continent.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. five also on the institutional reform of the european union. firstly, there is no need or necessity to change the treaties. such a need would exist if there were a general belief that the repair of institutions is a condition for good policy. the lisbon treaty is a relatively new treaty, with a degree of flexibility and a wide range of options, and it is worth taking advantage of this. secondly, the crisis in the european union is not institutional, it is an elite crisis. this is a multiple-choice crisis. much has been said about the growing euroscepticism that is trying to disintegrate the union. but there is another side to the coin: centralism and protectionism, which are bad for europe. and in fact, protectionism also comes from moderate governments that close markets at the expense of competitiveness. what does the union need? the union needs the mutual trust of the european institutions and the member states. on the one hand, the european institutions should respect the competences of the member states, on the other, the states should have a greater capacity to share responsibility for europe. we need synergy between the countries and the european institutions. and from this point of view both reports, mr verhofstadt's report and mr brok's and mrs bresso's reports, do not respond to the european challenges. in particular, the verhofstadt report calls for closer integration around the euro area, distrust of the member states, and the introduction of majority voting. it does not hide the fact that those countries which do not accept closer integration will find themselves outside europe. it is a pity that the opportunity for a pragmatic approach, for a real reform of the european union within the framework of the treaties, was not taken.
mr president, as chair of the committee on constitutional affairs, i must say that i feel really proud that, after two years of work, we have reached this day when a very clear message on the future of the european union will come out from this house. when we look at the history of the european union, we can clearly see that it has always grown through reforming itself but today reforms must signify urgency, pragmatism, but also vision and ambition. it is true that a lot can, and must, be done at the national level, but it is essential to understand that we are strong because we have agreed upon, and jointly created, a system of european institutions: institutions which protect us against the risk of abandoning the core shared values that hold us together, institutions which are guardians of the interdependence created over decades of integration, and also institutions which have to progress and deliver efficiently. the convergence machinery must certainly gather pace. country-specific situations must be taken care of, but not at the expense of undermining the european capacity to act, of fragmentation, of discarding the community method of integration. a new approach to the working method of the union should respond to the growing demand for a more accountable, transparent and participatory decision-making system. we should continuously seek improvements to the way the european institutions work, generously exploiting the potential offered by new technologies. most of us agree that many badly-needed reforms can be introduced within the existing treaty framework and we should use this potential fully, but it is our duty to look seriously into those areas where, without treaty change, europe’s capacity to respond to people’s legitimate fears, needs and ambitions will remain limited. we cannot afford this.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. my dear colleagues! we've heard a lot of criticism about the european union. we have heard, especially from the representatives of the eurosceptic parties, that many of the crises in the european union are the responsibility of the european union itself. but what is the truth? and if you look at these crises, it turns out that most of them are caused by the wrong policies of the member states. take the migration crisis or the refugee crisis. it was precisely the failure of the member states to comply with the dublin agreements, to comply with the obligations that they had, that led to the mass of refugees pouring out unchecked across europe. take the crisis of the terrorist attacks. they also arise from the fact that member states do not want to cooperate with each other in the exchange of information between services. and the economic crisis -- same story -- is the result of mistakes and wrong policies by individual countries. i too have bad news for mr fox and mr farage: unfortunately, we need more europe in these areas, not less europe. (the speaker declined to answer the question posed by takis hadjigeorgiou's raising of the blue card)
in writing. the union that can win more voters is a union that is more social, safer and better able to improve the living conditions of its citizens. a more social union is a union with high and modernised social standards, promoting equal access to the labour market, social inclusion and workers' rights. to meet these challenges, we need a new social pact focused on supporting a social market economy, tackling social inequalities and respecting fundamental rights, including the right to freedom of movement. we need to support social reforms more with structural and investment funds. labour law regulations and social security systems should be adapted to modern realities in order to ensure adequate working conditions and social protection for workers at all levels. a safe union is a union united in the fight against terrorism and radicalism. systematic and comprehensive information exchange between counter-terrorism services and intelligence agencies in individual countries is necessary. we also need more effective asylum and migration policies to ensure greater control and to limit the flow of migrants into the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the report because i believe that competition policy is one of the pillars of the single market. effectively managed, it promotes economic efficiency, innovation, technological progress and price reduction. it contributes to the creation and maintenance of quality jobs. any illegal tax or other state aid, as well as any protectionist decision by a government of one of the countries, has a serious impact on the lives of citizens of the european union. the commission should therefore do everything possible to ensure that competition policy is effective, especially today, when we are witnessing growing support within the european union for eurosceptic and populist views. in the coming years, there will certainly be a growing tendency in some member states to pursue protectionist policies at the expense of european countries. the european commission must therefore defend the fundamentals of the single market, including the effectiveness of competition policy, vigorously. failure to do so will cause enormous damage to the european economy, but will also affect the standard of living of ordinary europeans. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is worth considering whether or not to give the commission the right to consider all non-transparent interpretations of tax law issued by member states as illegal aid.
i voted against the document, even though promoting gender equality in mental health and clinical research is interesting. however, the report goes beyond the competence of the european union. and yet, while the document emphasizes a holistic view of mental health, i am missing the fundamental reference to health in general, which is the observance of ethical principles, which is the basis of values that shape human spirituality. neglecting the spiritual aspect of life degrades the human being, leading to loss of identity, epidemic of depression, addiction, suicide. but what's most alarming in this document is the rates of mental health disorders in children who are left alone with a lack of parental love because their parents are busy making a career. it is worth recalling, especially in europe, which avoids reference to christian values, that christianity displayed the highest level of human personal development.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the draft recommendation from parliament to the council on the priorities of the union for the 61st session of the un commission on the status of women because, apart from very valuable recommendations such as legal protection for pregnant women, after the birth of a child, the prevention of violence, the support of the disabled or the protection of migrants, the improvement of development and the reduction of poverty, we have a number of recommendations that are morally unacceptable. equating women with men despite their gender predisposition is reminiscent of the scene in poland during the socialist era, when women were urged to get on tractors. the recommendations should take into account the personal choices of women for whom motherhood is a personal right and their appreciation of the value of the family as a priority for the development of the state as well. it is unacceptable to deprive parents of control over education, including gender issues, and a fund that does not serve human development.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the priorities for the 61st session of the un commission on the status of women. i agree, of course, that many of these priorities are very important and valuable, such as the legal protection of pregnant women, the support of women with disabilities, better health protection for women, but i note with concern that among these amendments there are provisions which strongly condemn the sovereign decision of the united states to withdraw support for international pro-abortion organisations. i am also concerned to note that the european parliament has supported the creation of a fund to finance access to legal abortion, as this is one of the priorities. i would like to remind you that the european union was founded on christian values and its founding fathers are now candidates on the altar. it is high time that the european parliament spoke out in favour of the civilization of life.
mr. chairman, please! the new american government has made it clear that states can and should take action against the counterculture of death. unfortunately, today's attack on president trump's decision to stop funding abortion practices worldwide, and worse, the announcement of the creation of a european fund for the promotion of abortion, undermines this parliament and, moreover, is an act of contempt for the millions of europeans who stand up for the right to life. unfortunately, you are not only dividing europe, you are destroying it.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, you have added the item ‘state of play of the second review of the economic adjustment programme for greece’ to the agenda of this sitting. let me start by saying a few words on the process. basically, in line with the eu provisions on adjustment programmes, the institutions – that is the commission, in liaison with the ecb, esm and imf – are entrusted with the negotiation of a programme and the policy conditionality with the authorities. they are also responsible for the monitoring of programme implementation. the eurogroup is regularly informed of the state of play of the adjustment programme by the institutions and the authorities. on occasion, the eurogroup provides political guidance on open issues, and the state of play of the greek programme is on the agenda of the next eurogroup meeting on 20 february. the council, however, does not intervene in adjustment programmes. i can hence confirm that it has not discussed the issue at hand, neither in january nor at earlier meetings, and therefore i guess that vice-president dombrovskis is much better placed to provide you with information on the subject than i am. therefore i thank you very much for giving me the floor in order to intervene at the beginning of this item on your agenda.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, around halfway through its esm stability support programme, greece is at an important juncture. significant structural changes are being made across all areas of the economy. major fiscal efforts have been made since the programme’s inception, worth 4.5% of gdp. importantly too, implementation is taking place with the establishment of the independent revenue agency and the operationalisation of the new privatisation and investment fund, to name just two examples of big undertakings. economic data now point to several positive points. growth returned in the second half of the past year and is gathering pace. indeed greece has outperformed expectations in terms of gdp growth for 2016 and is expected to grow strongly this year by 2.7%, assuming of course that the programme remains on track. you have no doubt seen the commission’s winter forecast, published yesterday, reflecting this strong economic performance. unemployment also continues to decrease, though absolute levels remain unacceptably high, so this is one challenge that must be closely monitored and addressed. as regards fiscal developments, in 2016 greece is estimated to substantially surpass its primary surplus target of 0.5% of gdp under the esm programme. consequently, greece is also on track to meet its 2017 fiscal target primary surplus of 1.75% of gdp. this represents strong progress and shows that greece has come a long way. the completion of the second programme review is at a critical stage and must proceed without undue delay in order to underpin the progress we have seen in the last 18 months. a staff level agreement should be within reach provided that all partners work actively towards bridging the remaining gaps. implementation of the structural reforms has also progressed well over the past months and many actions required for the completion of the second review are close to adoption. in november and december the greek authorities passed several important pieces of legislation through parliament and the technical work necessary for the finalisation of the remaining elements has continued. at the same time, there is no room for complacency. as we all know, implementation has been the achilles heel of the greek programmes. the authorities have to work hard on the measures to be implemented by the second review and avoid backtracking on politically difficult issues. ownership is a mainstay of the programme’s success and should therefore be strengthened, especially in the fields of privatisation and energy. ensuring good governance is also key, especially to ensure the efficient functioning of the greek state, but i have to note that we have seen consistency from the authorities under the esm programme and a lot of progress has been made since the august 2015 agreement. i would highlight that, since its inception, the greek authorities have made nearly 200 measures and sub-measures to comply with the reform commitments. this effort needs to be recognised. our structural reform support service has furthermore provided technical support in the design and implementation of many of these reforms, for example, in the areas of public administration, renewable energy, privatisation, revenue administration, bank governance and others. in general, cooperation with the greek authorities has been constructive. with this in mind, it is crucial that all partners now live up to that commitments so that an overall policy package can be reached as soon as possible. this is not the time to call our resolve into question or jeopardise the positive economic signals but to underpin confidence and help jobs, growth and investment to return to greece. the overall package should encompass programme conditionality, including with a view to the imf coming on board with an arrangement, but also reflections on the post—programme fiscal path. we will continue to work constructively and urge our partners to do the same. finally, i would note that on 23 january the esm adopted the short—term debt measures that had been endorsed by december 2016 a year ago. these measures are essential and contribute significantly to contain growth financing needs and smooth the greek debt obligation over the maturity horizon, but they are part of the broader package agreed in may 2016 whose further elaboration we will continue to support in line with the agreement reached. to conclude, the commission will continue to work actively and constructively to ensure that the second review is concluded as soon as possible and that a balanced agreement is reached. it is important that all parties involved show political will. by keeping the programme on track, we will help to build on the current economic recovery in greece, allowing it to return to sustainable growth and job creation. thank you for your attention. i look forward to today’s debate.
i now open the debate on behalf of the political groups. i wanted to suggest to you that we don't use the blue card procedure on this part. the blue card will be used for individual appearances. i also wanted to stress that we are very much in the time frame for this debate.
application for a green card. we agreed to use the blue card after the group's performance.
now we're going to go to the individual appearances and we're also going to start the blue card process.
thank you very much, but for the future, mr. chountis, please don't talk about mr. schäuble, just answer the question in 30 seconds.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, for almost three years since the illegal annexation of crimea we have been engaged in constant initiatives aiming at the restoration of peace and the territorial integrity of ukraine. despite our efforts, the putin regime tends to continue its vicious game. the situation both in crimea and the eastern part tends to deteriorate. we have not only to stand by ukraine, calibrate the attitude vis-à-vis russia and reassess the effectiveness of the so-called selective engagement policy vis-à-vis this country.
madam president, my colleague van baalen asks what is new. the more we hesitate the further russia goes; that is new. the russian war in east ukraine and against ukraine is a fact because we, the eu and us, are hesitating. i want to congratulate the european external action service, our diplomacy, who said, by the mouth of our ambassador mr mingarelli in kiev today, that it is not a civil war; it is external aggression. there are 36 000 russian troops, some regular mercenaries and others in disguise. it is necessary to leave the harmful fiction of separatists and civil war. conclusions should be drawn. first on russia’s policy to the eu, which should continue and increase proportionally sanctions, according to the principle ‘more for more’. second, there is a false perception of minsk, where russia is not party to the peace process but an aggressor. and ukraine is a victim, that should be made clear. we need a revision of the minsk paradigm that should lead to the following actions in seven points. stop futile appeals to russia to influence their militants under their command. demand russia to stop the invasion and occupation and withdraw from ukraine. russia should abstain from participating and voting in the un security council, where it is party to aggression. we should review the approach so far by the normandy format. five, we should return to the geneva format with the eu as such and america. we should revive the spirit, if not the letter, of the budapest memorandum on security guarantees. if we, the west, the eu and the us, cannot or do not want to defend ukraine as ukraine defends us, let us at least give them arms.
madam president, the situation in eastern ukraine continues to be a source of grievous concern. renewed attacks by russian regular and proxy troops against the ukrainian military and civilians in the avdiivka region have cost many human lives, caused significant material damage and represent yet another blatant violation of the minsk agreements. this renewed surge of violence provoked by russia in a conflict that has killed already about 10 000 people since 2014, and which further continues to destabilise ukraine, must be decisively addressed by the eu and its leaders. firstly, parliament should strongly condemn russia’s military aggression against ukraine and call on the russian leaders to immediately stop the attacks. secondly, we should call on the european council to prolong the existing sanctions on russia and to consider their further extension and widening in order to show that there can be no tolerance for aggression for war in europe.
madam president! if we want putin to really feel the determination of the european states, to gain the conviction that any aggressive step on his part will cause adverse consequences for russia, let's immediately stop the construction of nord stream 2! after all, no one hides the purpose of this project: the idea is that within two years ukraine will cease to be a transit country. the aim is to weaken the security of ukraine, and our inaction in continuing this initiative will weaken the security of central europe. i repeat: if we want to be credible to those we defend, let us apply this most tangible and lasting sanction. nord stream 2 is also a test of the intentions of the eu authorities towards the countries that make it up. is it really just about slowly removing them from power, or is it about standing together, standing together in solidarity?
madam president! i have a feeling my realism will be more pessimistic after this debate. there was supposed to be a report, but there is no report. i have a feeling that a bad report written on the knee is not worth much, but we don't have any serious document that anticipates the situation in ukraine, gives good prescriptions and is comprehensive. the second very important point: i want to emphasise that the instability in ukraine is already becoming stable and is generating situations of great importance for the neighbouring countries - for moldova, for armenia, for belarus. because you have to remember that the result of the maidan was the annexation of crimea and what is happening in donetsk. i think we have to realize that solving the problem in ukraine is solving the problem in the whole of eastern europe. if we want to build hope there, we have to be effective, we have to be consistent, we have to be responsible, and in humanitarian aid, we have to not let down those who are most important there: the children of women, especially the vulnerable. i am drawing attention to this because the european union must be much more decisive in this matter.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i do not know if you are aware that a delegation from the foreign affairs committee of our parliament was in jerusalem a month ago and a few days after we left, very close to where we were staying, there was an attack in which a large number of young people were killed in the street by a terrorist who invoked the palestinian cause. do you really not think that if we talk about peace and security, we should not talk about building, because the palestinian authority itself is also building jerusalem illegally, but we should talk about people's lives and safety?
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i call on the palestinian authority to stop spreading hatred and inciting violence in both schools and public spaces. the incitement of unrest does not lead to conflict resolution and dialogue. that is why i appeal to the palestinians in the west bank who will go to the polls this year to vote sensibly in support of a policy of non-violence. in this context, i would also like to call on the palestinian authorities to do everything possible to protect the christians of the west bank, whose numbers have been steadily declining in recent decades. this is due to intimidation, land theft, and social marginalization. direct bilateral talks without preconditions are the only viable way to ensure the existence of two states for two peoples and a peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. in order to ensure the union's credibility, i call on the high representative to take account of israel's position and security in all activities related to the peace process.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, mr vice-president dombrovskis, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european the council attaches great importance to the semester process as a framework for economic policy coordination. coordination is of particular importance during times of uncertainty when the union is presented with considerable challenges. to start on a positive note, the evidence suggests that economic conditions in the european union are steadily improving. recovery is spreading across sectors and across countries. employment levels are rising and we have made significant progress in terms of deficit reduction. however, it is clear that many challenges remain, growth in the european union is still modest and investment activity has not yet reached the levels we are aiming for. moreover, recovery was not evenly distributed between member states and citizens. high levels of debt and unemployment rates remain a source of concern. while we have seen much progress in some member states, others are still facing major structural challenges. finally, recent international developments are generating uncertainty both internally and externally for our european union. in these uncertain and challenging times we need to coordinate our policies and come together to promote sustainable and inclusive growth in europe. let us join together to boost investment, to promote a more robust recovery and to ensure good long-term growth rates. the extension of the european fund for strategic investments, both in terms of time and financial capacity, is an important step towards achieving this objective. the council looks forward to our next negotiations and hopes to reach a good agreement on this dossier as soon as possible. in addition to the european fund for strategic investments, we also need to work together to create a favourable investment environment by also addressing investment barriers and helping small and medium-sized enterprises to access the funds they need. to this end, the presidency will continue to push forward the action plan on the capital markets union. in addition, we need to come together to support growth in smart fiscal policies, while paying close attention to the long-term sustainability of our budgets and debts. the stability and growth pact and the flexibility it provides should be our guide in these efforts. we also need to implement the necessary structural reforms in our product and labour markets to prepare our economies for the challenges ahead. we must provide high quality education to our young citizens and invest in their skills today. investing in the skills of our young people today means investing in a europe that is more prosperous and productive tomorrow. in times of increased protectionism, we must remember that the single market is the european union's greatest asset and that we must unite in its further development, its continuation. during the presidency we plan to make progress on the digital single market and the internal energy market, both of which will bring tangible benefits to our economies, our businesses and, above all, our citizens. in implementing all this policy, it is crucial to pay special attention to social inclusion, which is a matter of particular importance for the maltese presidency. when we design the reform packages, we need to keep in mind all our citizens, and to ensure that the economic growth we are striving to achieve benefits everyone. in this context, work on the european pillar of social rights will be of particular importance to us. after carefully reading your three reports on the european semester, i welcome the fact that we have many common priorities. and it is now important to focus on the full implementation of the reforms suggested in the country-specific recommendations and to closely monitor the progress being made in each member state. member states should also share their experiences and use examples of best practice to learn to support each other in implementing these reforms. and in this context we are proud that together, last week, we reached agreement on the programme of support for structural reforms. the programme will improve the administrative and institutional capacity of the member states in order to facilitate better implementation of the recommendations and to ensure a more efficient use of european union funds. in short, and to conclude my speech here, we will not succeed in strengthening the socioeconomic climate for a better europe if we do not work together and this is the guiding principle chosen by the maltese presidency for the next ministerial debates on the european semester. thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable maltese presidency, honourable members, i am pleased to have this opportunity to discuss the european semester with you. already, earlier this month, the european parliamentary week provided valuable exchanges. events like this are important to enrich our dialogue and further improve the ownership and efficiency of the european semester. since its inception the european semester has proven instrumental in fostering, guiding and supporting the reform process in the member states and in improving their economic and social performance. this was true both during the crisis and in a more recent context of a moderate recovery. yesterday the commission released the winter economic forecast. it shows the resilience of the european economy despite increased uncertainty. growth at the end of the last year was better than expected and is expected to continue at a moderate but firm pace. for the euro area we see gdp growth of 1.6% in 2017 and 1.8% next year. the eu as a whole should follow a similar pattern, and is forecast to expand by 1.8% this year and the next. the eu’s gdp is now higher than before the crisis and all member states are set to grow for the next two years. the situation in public finances is also improving. the average budget deficit in the euro area is expected to go down from 1.7% of gdp in 2016 to 1.4% of gdp this year. the average public debt is also going down while remaining at still high levels: around 90% of gdp in the euro area and 85% of gdp in the eu as a whole. recently there have been some labour market gains that have supported the expansion of private consumption. investment still remains relatively weak. private consumption will remain the main driver of growth, supported by sustained improvements in employment and a nominal wage growth. the global economic context is also improving with global growth reaching 3.4% this year compared with 3% last year. however, these positive trends go together with a number of challenges and uncertainties, both internal and external, that we need to tackle. internally there are clear economic and social challenges such as continuously high unemployment and poverty levels, income disparities across and within countries, low productivity growth, and increasing divergence in productivity performance across firms and sectors. public and private debt levels remain high. there are also persistent pockets of weakness in the banking sector, including high non-performing loans in several member states. the upcoming country reports will zoom in on where problems occur and where more determined strategies to deal with this issue are needed. the ongoing work to build a true capital markets union is also important in this respect as it aims at widening and diversifying companies’ financing sources. and more integrated capital markets would also contribute to the development of a secondary market for non-performing loans. these challenges remain a drag on our immediate growth prospects, and long-term growth might also be affected as unused labour force and a relatively low level of productive investment can permanently impact our economic growth potential. the over-arching message from the commission’s 2017 annual growth survey of last november is that we have to redouble efforts amongst a virtuous triangle of investment, structural reforms and responsible fiscal policies. in doing so we have to keep focus on social fairness and delivering an economic recovery that benefits all, notably the weaker parts of our societies. to strengthen the potential inherent in our economies, we need to continue in particular to strengthen investment in education, training and skills as well as in research and development and infrastructure. more efficient public procurement and full absorption of available eu funds can contribute to these objectives. guaranteeing well-functioning product services and labour markets and promoting an effective uptake and integration of new business models should also remain priority areas for policy makers. national reforms and making the most of the single market in all sectors are essential. sustainable public finances and remaining alert to the emergence of imbalances in the private sector are the foundation on which to build a sustainable growth. all this is a sizeable agenda and the work on it continues. next week the commission will present its country-specific analysis in the country reports prepared by the commission services. we will then have a sharper image of the challenges and progress made in each member state. during the period of publication of the country reports, we will strive to make the most of our strengthened dialogue with member states at all levels, notably through high-level visits to member states. we have taken particular care to better include them in the writing phase of the country reports as well, and this continued dialogue is of utmost importance in order to come to a common understanding of the most pertinent policy issues. for the 13 countries identified in the 2017 alert mechanism report the country reports will include an in-depth review, analysing the presence and nature of macroeconomic imbalances. on the whole we can expect continued progress with imbalances gradually being worked out. also next week we will issue an article 126(3) report for italy. as you know there is a need for additional structural adjustment of at least 0.2% of gdp in order to achieve broad compliance with the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact this year. the italian government has since made a clear and public commitment to adopt the additional measures by the end of april. the commission is expecting the national reform programmes and the stability and convergence programmes by mid-april. this year again the commission encourages the close involvement of national parliaments, social partners, local authorities and all stakeholders in the preparation of national programmes. we will present as usual in may the 2017 set of the country-specific recommendations. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s active involvement in the debate on the european semester; we pay close attention to your views. so i welcome the work done by the committees and members of the european parliament involved in the drafting the own-initiative reports and i look forward to a constructive debate on these reports today.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the 2017 annual growth survey shows positive signs of growth and employment in the european union, which is welcome. however, we must remember that growth is still volatile and we must do everything possible to increase it systematically and to combat the still high unemployment rate. in this context, i would like to highlight the enormous potential of cohesion policy, which is the main investment policy of the european union. however, in order to exploit this potential to the full, work to simplify and remove unnecessary barriers for beneficiaries needs to be continued and intensified. it is also necessary to increase flexibility in the implementation of the funds and to remove the burden of excessive and numerous audits.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. while recognising the great importance of the european semester as the union's calendar for coordinating the economic policies of the member states of the european union, it should be noted that the final report did raise some issues, in my view, that were problematic. these are provisions that infringe member states' competences, for example the inclusion of gender equality in national reform programmes, or the mandatory inclusion of gender equality in the report: gender in reform programmes, gender in convergence programmes, gender in stability programmes, etc. the provisions promoting refugees as a labour force and a factor in improving demographics in the eu countries are also problematic. in my view, it is necessary to create an obligation for each member state of the european union to pursue an active, concrete and comprehensive pro-family policy: the creation of new jobs and housing for young people, with the motto for each member state of the european union that children are not a cost, but a joyful investment.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in this debate, i would like to point out that the economic recovery in most of the countries of the european union, and in particular in many countries of the southern euro area, is weak and uneven, and is being stimulated mainly by the easing of the monetary and fiscal policies of the european central bank and by external factors of a transitional nature, such as low oil prices. against this background, my non-euro area country poland is showing stable and balanced economic growth, which amounted to 2,8% of gdp in 2016 and is planned to reach 3,6% of gdp in 2017, while maintaining a responsible fiscal policy, as evidenced by a public finance deficit clearly below 3% of gdp. the commission has also assessed the impact of the measures on the union industry, which is the main reason for the increase in imports from the prc. on this basis, i would say that the state of the economies and public finances of the countries of the union that use their own currencies is, however, clearly better than that of many countries in the euro area, in particular the countries of the south of the euro area.
mr president, i am very happy that we are discussing in a much more optimistic mood than two or three years ago. and indeed we have grounds for that because the euro area has been growing, at least. but let me tell you that there is no room for complacency because there are a number of trends that in the past supported the recovery but right now they are weakened or even disappearing. first, oil prices have started to rise again and will therefore act as an additional tax on output. the second thing is the euro which has strengthened against the other major currencies. and finally monetary policy has reached its limits and cannot provide any further stimulus to the european economy. so we have to rely on other measures and among them i think the most important are structural reforms and, of course, investment. the problem with investment is that not only is public investment lagging behind, a long-term trend, but also, what is most important, private investment is not picking up, at least not to the extent expected. this calls clearly for more structural reforms aimed at improving the business climate and increasing the confidence of investors and consumers, and these are mostly tasks for individual member states. there is not so much we can do at union level. more action is needed on the part of the member states.
mr. chairman, please! many of you have already stressed the central role of the further development of the single market in this process, but once again, as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to emphasise a few points: the need to develop a set of analytical tools, including social indicators, in order to be able to really assess progress in removing barriers in the common market on an ongoing basis. we need to strengthen the monitoring and assessment of the proper and effective implementation and application of the rules governing our single market. this is a very important role - i stress this again - for the member states and our committee reiterates its call for them to use the single market management tools more effectively. the member states need to modernise their public administrations. the introduction of digital services needs to be speeded up and improved. finally, i am very pleased that the committee is proposing a single digital portal to make information more accessible. but i wonder if it is necessary to create a new portal or if it would be better to do it within the existing portal 'your europe' or 'your europe'. you can expand it. it can be improved. and good and easily accessible information for all actors in the single market is a very important element to achieve success. these are just a few of the points i have mentioned, and they are necessary if the european union is to develop further without unnecessary barriers.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to the hospital. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how would you persuade countries that have not yet done so to introduce this system of education, which is both theoretical and practical? what is the most important part of this training, and what leads to its quick success?
in writing. in pursuing the objectives of the european semester in the field of employment and social aspects, i consider it essential to highlight three elements. first of all, i stress the need for reforms aimed at education and training projects that adapt the skills of young people to the current and future requirements of the labour market. i therefore call for the eu to remain committed to the 'erasmus+' programme and express my support for the youth employment initiative, which is a tool to help member states provide young people with support tailored to their needs. in this context, i would also like to point out that the cultural and creative sectors make a significant contribution to employment growth. more than 6 million people in the eu work in the cultural sector, which means that supporting it brings tangible benefits in terms of creating new jobs and fighting unemployment. i therefore call for more use of eu funding programmes, especially those such as horizon 2020 and the efsi, for this very purpose. finally, i would also like to recall the important role that our actions should play in promoting better information about all the european funds and programmes that can support entrepreneurship, investment and access to finance, such as erasmus for entrepreneurs, the european employment services, the cosme programme, the eu programme for employment and social innovation and the european fund for strategic investments.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to start by saying that the banking union has, in my view, been one of the most significant steps taken to respond to the financial crisis, and it is a precious achievement. since mid-2012 when it was initiated, we have come a long way towards addressing the negative feedback loop and other damaging procyclical ties between banks and sovereigns. however, like the economic governance which we have been intensely discussing during the session, also the banking union is halfway through. we have unfinished business with the european deposit insurance scheme (edis), with the fiscal backstop, with possible changes in the prudential treatment of sovereign debt to further dealing banks and sovereign, and with possible transfer of the full responsibility for emergency liquidity assistance to the central level. we also have legacy issues to deal with, such as non-performing loans. what i intended to do with this report was to give a critical overview of the challenges we are facing, while not pre-empting the outcome of the legislative discussions on edis, as well as on the new banking package that amends crr/crd, brrd and the single resolution mechanism regulation. the recommendations of the report concern all the pillars of the banking union, the supervision resolution and deposit insurance, and it looks into a variety of issues. through excellent cooperation with other colleagues, we have built broad consensus on this comprehensive report and we look with much detail into all areas where recommendations can be made. the report has become a helpful stock—taking exercise before handing over to the colleagues leading the legislative discussions. i hope the messages will be taken into account and will feed into legislative debates. however, there are also broader issues in this report which will not be dealt with in the current commission banking package. i am especially thinking of the fiscal backstop. it needs to be done, and actually there is agreement to establish it. the current solution, credit lines between national governments and the esm, is not sufficient to overcome the banks’ sovereign vicious circle and do away with the bailouts. ultimate liability for the financing of the backstop should rest with the banking sector, and not with taxpayers. the backstop should be fiscally neutral over the medium term. there is another set of issues which will not be part of the current negotiations on the banking package because global guidance is needed there. i am thinking here of internal models to calculate capital requirements and the prudential treatment of sovereign debt. in the case of internal models, work is being done at the level of the basel committee and also in the eu, at the level of the eba and of the ecb, as regards the harmonisation of the financial of testing of models. we need to balance the creation of a level playing field between small and large banks and the transparency and comparability of capital requirements, with the need for risk sensitivity and the possibility to use specific information from banks that can bring useful refinement to the model. in the case of the prudential treatment of sovereign debt, we would like to better reflect the risks involved, and we also hope, with the differentiated capital treatment, to incentivise diversification of exposures across sovereigns. this has to be balanced with the need to keep some kind of safe asset to retain a benchmark for price formation on our financial markets, and not to procyclically penalise financially fragile governments. to conclude, let us not forget that with the uk out of the union, all member states except denmark are committed to joining the euro in the future, so we should encourage those countries to see the benefits of joining the banking union and of benefiting through banking union membership from participation in the decision-sharing mechanism between home and host countries that we have established for the resolution of banks.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i would like to emphasise that on the controversial and difficult subject of the banking union, the rapporteur has managed to balance the amendments and reach compromises that bring together the views of almost all the political options. the report included many of my political group's amendments concerning, among others, non-performing loans for debt restructuring, commitments to public debt, the introduction of a leverage ratio. the report addressed the issue of compliance with the public policy rules for banks. improvements to the functioning of the banking union system have been proposed. poland, my delegation, is skeptical, however, about creating a continuation of the banking union. and although the report is very well written, it is very balanced, we cannot support it. we will abstain from voting.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like once again to use this opportunity to thank colleagues for being open to building a broad consensus around the report. as you are here with us, vice-president dombrovskis, i would also like to thank you for your positive reactions and i take them as a commitment on the commission’s part to take on board our recommendations as elements for your further work. we also hope that issues related to the completion of the banking union will find a place in your white paper. i would like to say that, of course, we all know that it is unfinished business, that it is a living project and there will be improvements and there will hopefully be completion of the banking union, but we believe that it is not only about legislation and the missing elements of the legislative framework. this is absolutely crucial, but we also believe that it is important to ensure that the existing institutions within the banking union develop the best possible practices in their current work.
the question asked by raising the blue card. ceta is good for small and medium-sized enterprises, ceta is good for european exporters. i don't know if you think ceta is bad for international corporations? or should we be frank and say that it is really their interests that are at stake, not the interests of european entrepreneurs, not our farmers, not the interests of europeans?
the question asked by raising the blue card. you spoke about the small and medium-sized enterprises that you believe will benefit from ceta, about the benefits for european exports. why didn't you mention the multinational corporations, the main beneficiaries of this arrangement? do you think the multinational corporations based in canada will lose out?
madam president! the arguments of the ceta supporters are demagogic, false and false. the arguments of the ceta opponents are demagogic, false and false. aristotle said that democracy is the rule of donkeys led by hyenas. the level of debate in this parliament shows that it is much worse. since the devil is in the details, i can only express my concern that this treaty is surrounded by a fog of ambiguity. this is particularly true of the most important aspect of the treaty, namely arbitration. i agree that private arbitration is better than state courts prone to corruption and political pressure i am especially surprised by the polish mps who do not leave a dry thread on polish courts however i would be more comfortable if the treaty stipulated that super arbitrators must come from switzerland, japan or other countries where honesty still prevails. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president, the world is watching. make no mistake: we are going to do a lot more today than just agree on ceta. for one thing, we are going to prove our credibility. with the conclusion of these negotiations we are going to prove that during difficult geopolitical times, when populism triumphs, we can set and support good international trade practices. with this agreement we show that we are going to set certain rules that can be established for future agreements on trade around the world. if we can agree with canada, if we can push forward to improve trade relations with canada, if we can show the positive impact on citizens, on industry and on employment, this agreement will show that this is the way to go. i believe that is why we should support it, because it is just one step towards reshaping the world in a positive manner.
madam president! polish-canadian relations are strategic, not cyclical, confirmed by the repeated struggle for our freedom. ceta is not a perfect agreement. there are no perfect contracts. although her chances were described very well by czech mp jan zahradil. but he saw the contract as an additional element of our security architecture. transatlantic relations are strengthening poland, also in the intra-european system.
madam president! some people here are cynically saying to us, the ceta supporters: 'you are showing how you defend the citizens of europe'. i will say to them: 'you are showing how cynically you lie to the citizens of europe, because you are presenting lies and telling nonsense.' to those who say: 'we are against ceta because people matter', i say: 'we are for ceta because people matter'. ceta is a bridge across the atlantic, connecting friends to work together for a better future. lower prices, higher quality, the safety of citizens, the protection of democracy, the protection of human and labour rights, and the protection of the environment and climate that is ceta. these are the values that you want to defend here, and yet you are against ceta. you have to make a decision.
in writing. the eu-canada economic and trade agreement (ceta) proposes the abolition of almost all customs duties and non-tariff barriers and the liberalisation of trade in services between its partners. it also aims to open up the canadian public procurement market to european companies. in 2015, the value of goods imported from canada was €28.3 billion and exported €35.2 billion. it is estimated that these amounts could increase by 20% following the implementation of the above agreement. on the most contentious issues, which have been the most controversial, the eu and canada have reaffirmed that countries have the right to apply their own rules. another such issue was the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism. the court of arbitration for sport (cas) was established in 2005 and is responsible for the arbitration of international football matches. today we are also voting on the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement, which complements ceta by strengthening bilateral cooperation in areas such as foreign and security policy, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime, sustainable development, research and culture. despite the many advantages of ceta, there are still many uncertainties, such as the question of its compatibility with the treaties, and i will not support it.
in writing. i voted against the controversial, new generation, globalising ceta agreement for many reasons. both because the document was drawn up in an opaque manner, with the possible influence of third parties on the negotiation process, and without the participation of the governments and parliaments of the individual member states of the union, as well as without the participation of the social partners, which constitutes a violation of the basic principles of democracy. it also risks losing the sovereignty of the member states in the area of law-making and the protection of the public interest. according to experts, between 200 and 600 000 jobs are at risk across the eu, and in poland, it is estimated that around 200 000 jobs will be lost. many experts believe that ceta, through the ics (international arbitration) mechanism, gives corporations the opportunity to challenge virtually any regulation, both domestic and intra-community. this could jeopardize the corporations' expected profits, putting corporations above state law and against the interests of societies with particularly low resources. ceta is a threat to small-scale family farming in poland, because the removal of all barriers threatens to break down polish agriculture. ceta will lower food standards, especially through the risk of importing genetically modified and industrially produced food, which is cheaper and of poor quality. ceta may limit the rights of states to renationalize or regulate public services and may endanger the environment by facilitating the import of fuels from canadian tar sands.
mr. chairman, please! ceta advocates say, as the rapporteur recommending the recommendation said, that canada is closer to us than some european countries. of course, i have great admiration for the people of canada and their participation in the two world wars on our side. this is a country that's allied with us. but when i listened to this colleague, i thought that the multinational companies located in canada are closer to him than the polish or greek farmers. in fact, this decision was made in violation of the principles we often invoke. we're talking about minorities, but has anyone thought about farmers? we talk about equality of the subjects, and who thought of favoring multinational corporations over our own entrepreneurs? we are talking about fighting populism, and this treaty is one of the great works of populist consumerism - that's why i voted against it.
a spoonful of tar, as the polish proverb says, spoils a barrel of honey. there are several spoonfuls of tar in this barrel of honey. i voted for, because i like honey, but with a heavy heart. in fact, i support the position of mr petr mach of the bohemian party of free citizens who proposes: dissolve the european union, dissolve the dominion of canada, and let the canadian provinces and european countries live happily under ceta .
mr. chairman, please! i will be honest, i had a few other things i wanted to say, but my predecessor provoked me to respond to what he said. that's a fantastic saying. that's great. you have listed as a huge threat to the european union and to the societies of our member states all the elements that are not in ceta and that are excluded. health care, public services, education, culture, etc. are all shut down. that is why i said in my previous speech that we are hearing lies and nonsense here, because issues are being discussed and citizens - the people of europe - are being frightened by matters that are not in ceta or that are, but have been limited, and there are guarantees and safeguards in relation to them. i am therefore very pleased that, apart from the matter we are discussing, the ceta agreement has also been settled in a positive way. one could argue that reason is not dead today, and that nationalism and stupidity have lost.
mr. chairman, please! we have had a spectacle of demagoguery and propaganda lies. it wasn't much of a political debate, and that's a shame. it's a pity that the mainstream political, parliamentary establishment believes in the lies of its own propaganda. they're great propagandists, but believing in their propaganda lies is bad for the political debate and its outcome. europe has a lot to lose. if it were a free trade agreement, it would have one sentence: "interference in economic contracts between citizens and companies is prohibited", end of story. and when you write several thousand pages of legislation, you are creating misfortune and europe will pay for it, and it will pay dearly. this is the sense of irresponsibility for the fate of european countries and peoples. the source of our misery is the irresponsibility of this house, emanating from this house. i hope that the national parliaments of the european countries will take heed and that such a disaster will not happen.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that the european union is at a turning point. the fact that the european union is not a single entity, but a single institution, is a very important factor in the development of the union. we're talking about the effects of the financial crisis of the past, the economic crisis of the countries in the eurozone, and above all, of course, the sudden and huge influx of migrants, refugees, into the european union. we're trying to answer the question of how to deal with all these threats. i think we're the least economically engaged. i think we spend the least time on entrepreneurs, when it is the economy that generates income for the member states and the european union itself. it's the entrepreneurs who create jobs that give people a living and a future. the debate on the ets confirms that we are not feeling the economy and are not doing everything we can to make the european economy strong and competitive in the world.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize clearly why i considered it appropriate to vote against amendments nos 12 and 84 in the report adopted by the committee on the environment on the reform of the ets. these amendments contained very dangerous provisions concerning the functioning of the cement and lime sectors. they contained an unacceptable proposal to exclude these sectors from the free allocation mechanism and to include both sectors in a vague border protection mechanism. i don't approve of such activities and experiments. the cement and lime sectors are an important source of economic income throughout the european union. in my country, poland, alone, the sector and the services it provides employ some 30 000 people. the environment committee's proposals would lead to a drastic increase in production costs, a decrease in investment, legal and operational irregularities, a reduction in the competitiveness of the sector and, consequently, a decrease in employment. that is why i voted against excluding the cement and lime sectors from the free allocation mechanism.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. i voted against the ets as proposed by you today. why would you do that? because it is incompatible with the treaty provisions which give member states the right to shape their energy basket. the state, by voting for a limit of 450 grams per kilowatt hour, wants to exclude the possibility of financing the modernisation of all coal-fired power stations, so that there is no need to amend the treaty to take something out of it. situations such as the present one can deprive a member state of what is guaranteed and guaranteed to it in the treaty. the state frequently invokes the paris agreement. so you've forgotten that the final agreement in paris was reached only because it did not include decarbonisation? today we are witnessing decarbonization. you have prevented any coal-fired plant from benefiting from the funds earmarked for modernisation, and even most gas-fired plants and, interestingly, only a few gas-fired plants produced in germany. that's how you lobby. is that what we want? do we want to push for some installations at the expense of others, depriving a member state of the opportunity to provide its citizens with decent living conditions? because through these regulations, you will lead to deepening energy poverty, to emissions leakage, and thus to an increase in unemployment in the european union, and especially in my country, in my homeland, in poland.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against because i consider these restrictions to be a scandal. the point is to produce energy as cheaply as possible, because that's what benefits the consumer, that's what creates jobs, because when people spend less on energy, they have more money to buy something else, and that creates jobs. this is also reflected in silesia, which i represent here, and in the ruhr area, which is badly represented by mrs merkel. ladies and gentlemen, i also want to make one more point. plants need emissions, they need carbon dioxide, they need heat. plants grow from carbon dioxide, they grow from heat. plants need heat and carbon dioxide. if you don't want carbon dioxide, you kill the plants. i want to remind you that right now, after donald trump's victory, there is an investigation underway and people from the u.s. air and ocean commission will soon go to jail for falsifying the research that caused the paris conference to make the decisions that it did. and all those in europe will go to prison too.
mr. chairman, please! although the past year has been relatively good for the european economy and the labour market, we should not forget the problems that remain. the main challenge in terms of long-term consequences seems to be the persistently high youth unemployment. across the european union, more than 4 million people aged 15-24 are unemployed, and those who are unemployed are often forced to work below their qualifications in part-time or flexible forms of employment. six and a half million of these people are neets, which means that it will not be easy to get them back into the labour market or to improve their skills. nearly 30% of young people have been out of work for more than a year and will need particularly intensive measures to activate them professionally. all these data show that there will be huge challenges for social security systems in the future, but the need for more action by public and private employment services is urgent. a whole generation is growing up in europe, a large part of which has never worked or will never have a stable job, and therefore appropriate action is needed at all levels, including the european union. moreover, we as the european parliament must ensure that, during the review of the multiannual financial framework, adequate and stable funding is guaranteed for all initiatives aimed at improving the situation of young people in the labour market. i therefore supported the report on social and employment aspects in the annual growth survey 2017.
mr. chairman, please! it is an extremely important document, but on one condition: that the conclusions drawn are then put into practice. but not always and not with everything. i shall concentrate on just one point because of the limited time i have. we are creating a single common market, but unfortunately we hear almost every day that there are different national, regional, sectoral and sectoral particularities in the european union. the worst part of all this is that it is accompanied by such dependence, one might say, on the authorities which should be responsible for fair competition in the common market, including, unfortunately, the european commission. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. these cases go on for years. how can entrepreneurs work steadily, hire their employees, provide them with what they deserve, if they don't know what they're going to encounter every day? we must put an end to this if we are to build the strength of the european economy.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the introduction of low-risk biopesticides, which means the restriction of chemical pesticides, which are part of the xenoestrogens, which are not only responsible for many diseases, especially cancer, but also cause serious pollution of the environment, air, water and soil. in addition to the arguments put forward in the debate, i would like to draw particular attention to the very interesting french-danish studies on the significant reduction in the population of soil-fertilising and oxidising earthworms, whose numbers and sizes are drastically reduced in soils treated with chemical pesticides, and particularly fungicides. although the worm population does reduce the toxicity of these chemical pesticides to some extent, worms are only one example of soil degradation by applied chemistry and it is therefore important to accelerate the procedures and research on natural pesticides.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
mr president, your methods of fighting terrorism are like putting oil on fire. listen: first, we must introduce the death penalty. we cannot win when they can kill us and we cannot kill them. some terrorists are not ready to die, for example those who killed at charlie hebdo. second, every man should have a gun. it will not help in most cases, but in some it will. three, no social benefits to immigrants. they must work, and work hard, like the american immigrants in the nineteenth century, for small money. they must not have strange thoughts in their minds: they must work and not think about something. four, no wall will stop terrorists: we must agree that there will be terrorism and live with it. far more people die in car accidents than through terrorism and we do not care, or we do not get hysterical about it. and the last thing: stop the journalists. what the terrorists want is to be famous and to spread hysteria in society. the journalists should cut off the terrorists: no photographs; no interviews with terrorists. the terrorists should be hanged the next day, there should be no names and they should be buried under the pigsty. this will minimise terrorism. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – one justice and one hangman is enough.
i have one right: to be protected by the state and not by the inefficient bureaucracy that cannot help.
mr. chairman, please! i propose a serious debate. the seriousness of the situation is really the important thing. our electorate expects us to have serious debates, serious solutions, not discussions, which i think are an affront to the dignity of this parliament. these proposed solutions are a step forward. but it's not like they're not open to criticism. i think that at this moment, from the point of view of the average pole, german, frenchman, briton, czech or danish, the issue of security in the context of terrorism is an absolutely fundamental issue and the voter i represent here is ready to increase the powers of the various institutions that deal with security at the expense of his own security. we have to remember that. let's try to live up to those expectations.
mr. chairman, please! the commission's proposed text on counter-terrorism states that the terrorist threat has been growing and changing rapidly in recent years, and one of the amendments adds that the fight against terrorism remains primarily the responsibility of the member states. it also proposes to coordinate counter-terrorism actions at eu level in the wake of the terrorist attacks that occurred in europe in 2015 and 2016. i would remind you that the european union has so far remained passive and has condemned the cooperation of its member states with the united states in the fight against terrorism. an example is the curious commission on cia prisons, which operated in the sixth term of the european parliament. as you can see, it's only the imminent threat to the lives of our citizens from terrorist attacks that makes us change. better late than never. i agree with the european union counter-terrorism coordinator that an effective response requires a holistic approach and long-term efforts.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate ms hohlmeier on this balanced report. terrorism is one of the most important threats to european unity, one of the arguments in the debate on the shape of europe, but in fact an argument against an open and common europe, and it is therefore very important that we fight it effectively. there is no doubt that security is our priority now, that we need to strengthen cooperation, exchange information and strengthen controls, especially at the external borders. we need more effective intelligence services and stronger action against individuals and groups that pose a threat, but we also need effective mechanisms for social and economic integration in europe, because social stratification, cultural isolation, social ghettos are hotbeds of radicalism. this is something we should avoid, and that is why i am very much in favour of solutions proposed which present a comprehensive and balanced proposal.
in writing. it is good that the european parliament is once again addressing progress in the fight against terrorism. unfortunately, in recent years, terrorist threats have increased in europe, as evidenced by the recent attacks in nice and berlin. terrorists operate without any scruples, and their goal is to spread fear and fight western civilization. the proposed directive rightly expands the definition of terrorist offences. under the new proposal, terrorist offences will include not only attacks on people and objects, but also attacks on information systems and databases, critical infrastructure such as power plants and banking systems. i think it is right that the eu countries should introduce penalties for publicly praising terrorism, participating in terrorist training and travelling for terrorist purposes. if we consistently introduce the proposed changes in european law, this will undoubtedly make it more difficult for terrorists to operate.
on behalf of the ppe group. how can we make europeans safer? among other things, by strengthening the protection of the external borders of the european union. it is therefore of the utmost importance that, after a year of difficult negotiations, we have reached an agreement with the council and the commission. we agreed together on how to improve our security. we thank mrs macovei, our rapporteur, and all our colleagues who have worked to achieve a common consensus. we agreed that the external borders of the union must be made more difficult to cross for those who want to enter illegally and with malicious intent. they need to be more impenetrable to terrorist networks and they need to be better managed. increased controls at external borders will allow the success of integration, the schengen area, to allow europeans to travel freely within the community. it's one of our important symbols of europe. let's not give her up. the new challenge is how to deal with terrorists who have european union citizenship and return to europe with the appropriate training. only increased controls at external borders, including airports, can help. and it will be up to the member states to organise themselves so as not to increase the queues for passport controls by using the grace period provided for in the regulation. the key now is for member states to share data in a consistent way, to update their databases regularly and to share best practices. if existing information systems are fully exploited, then their interoperability can be ensured. this will certainly facilitate quick and simultaneous searching and verification of databases and on a 'hit or no hit' basis and should not cause any particular difficulties. the union's right to free movement should not be exploited by criminals, in particular after returning from areas affected by armed conflict. effective and systematic controls at the union's external border can help to do this.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'm very surprised by your doubts, but i'd like to be precise. what fundamental right will be violated by objective and intensive border control? can you point to a fundamental right that would be violated?
madam president! i want to support this resolution with all my heart. this is what the european union should be doing, and it will strengthen and make controls at the external borders more effective, and it will also inspire states to do better controls. together with other instruments such as the passenger data protection directive and the anti-terrorism directive, it makes for an effective security policy and, to be honest, i don't understand these voices, i don't understand why some on the left say that this is an anti-democratic solution. alde is indifferent. someone said we only did this because there were attacks in paris, but you blocked the pnr directive before the attacks in paris. you cannot, in essence, interpret freedom in terms that are completely unlimited, against security. order is the foundation of freedom. if europe is not secure, it will be difficult to promote freedom, which is why this regulation is worth supporting.
member of the commission. – mr president, i shall follow the discipline of previous speakers. we are all agreed that it is absolutely crucial that we fully exploit the potential of existing information systems at eu level, and that means making sure that all member states implement what they have agreed to do and that we also find ways of encouraging the effective use of these tools by frontline practitioners on the ground, with effective cooperation between police, border guards and immigration officers. for me, implementation is absolutely the priority, and that applies whether the instrument in question is a pre-lisbon instrument or one that has been adopted since by parliament and the council. to support that implementation, we have funding: we have the internal security fund (isf), which continues to fund national programmes in this area, and we have extra funding that has been dedicated to supporting the agencies, notably europol to reinforce staffing for the new european counter terrorism centre (ectc). we have expertise and we have the sharing of best practice. we will continue to support all of those means. we will also continue to look at what we need to do to plan for the future and to adapt the information tools we have to make them as effective as possible, and that applies to the prüm convention as well, although i have to say, in direct response to a direct question, that right now, as of today, we do not have a proposal on lisbonisation. that question remains open, and if that can help effective implementation we will certainly examine it. you, the european parliament, continue to play an absolutely key role because, as today’s debate has shown, you rightly point the finger at areas where further improvement is needed, and that helps maintain pressure. it maintains pressure on the member states, as we have been discussing, but, frankly, it also maintains pressure on the commission to continue the important work on implementation that we have all agreed is at the heart of making progress.
thank you very much, commissioner, for the way you have spoken, the disciplined way, but these requirements of discipline do not apply to you. thank you, though, that was very kind of you. mr. minister, your time restrictions are not applicable.
you are free to take as much time as you wish. however, we would be grateful for a comprehensive summary.
president-in-office of the council. i also follow your instruction. i was pleased to hear, first of all, the commissioner give a detailed explanation of the work being done, also from the point of view of the european commission and in particular to you, the members, all of whom, of course, also understand the sentiment and appreciate the sentiment of your arguments. they were all interesting interventions. i have followed closely both mr hohlmeier and mr moraes and all the members, but those in particular. first of all, let me reassure this house that the council is committed not only to continuing to see the implementation of the roadmap, but also to working together to improve even further the sharing of information between member states. however, you will of course understand that, as council, we are not in a position to provide specific information on the compliance or non-compliance of member states with specific instruments within the parameters of institutional prerogatives and i think that, of course, we all know this. however, we will of course continue to commit ourselves, as i was saying, to working together and to more information sharing, not only between member states but also with the agencies, as well as improving interoperability which has also been mentioned in several of your interventions; not only on the systems we have today, but also on the systems we may have in the future. and so, as i said in the introduction, we look forward with interest and expectation to the 'outcome' that we will have from the group of senior experts in this regard. we thank you and look forward to working together in the future.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. continued attention should be paid to the quality of dialogue between eu member states and the exchange of information through appropriate instruments to ensure an adequate level of internal security in the eu. it is necessary to increase the efficiency of the information exchange instruments and to address any existing gaps. the definition of terrorism is not closed and should be expanded now. the european parliament should also be clear about the need to make its activities more effective and to seek to strengthen the confidence of its citizens. the community decision-making method should aim to exploit in this context the possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon. however, information exchange alone is not enough, effective response and coordination are needed, otherwise it will be difficult to build an efficient network of actors from different eu countries with access to clear and unambiguous data generated for use by different security actors. it also requires intensive work by representatives in international organisations, further strengthening of the common foreign and security policy, concern for peace and development in the eu's neighbourhood and the dissemination of the best democratic principles and values.
the next item is the report drawn up by mady delvaux on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on civil law provisions on robotics (2015/2103 ((inl)) (a8-0005/2017).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, (inaudible) opportunities of robotics. let us take the most recent ones. firstly, the fast development of learning machines requires rules, european harmonised standards and the possibility to register all artificial intelligence and have it monitored. secondly, ethical principles and respect for fundamental rights are crucial. this should begin from the moment constructors start the work with algorithms on privacy and security, to make those by default. thirdly, it is crucial to raise awareness and avoid, through ethical guidance, the emotional dependency of humans cooperating with robots. fourthly, this is not the time for strong regulation. it is better to use the soft-law principles approved by all stakeholders in the code of conduct, using existing laws and adjusting them to the new challenges. fifthly, this is not the time for new taxes, but we have to continue work on the liability problem. sixthly, we need transition-period programmes for workers so that people can adjust to the new challenges both mentally and professionally. this is better than a general basic income. now it is time to hear from the commission.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of my colleague věra jourová let me start by thanking the rapporteur, ms delvaux, and all the meps involved. this is a crucial report on all the legal questions related to development of robotics and artificial intelligence. this house, to my knowledge, will be one of the first to have a clear and comprehensive position on robotics and artificial intelligence, a topic that is getting great public attention, and rightly so. your text highlights the challenges and opportunities of this sector, and points towards a clear need for a coherent european approach. you are also calling for europe to have a strong presence and investment in its technology in order to maintain leadership. in the european commission, we have long recognised the importance and the potential of robotics and artificial intelligence, and the need for significant investment in these areas. we have set an ambitious public and private partnership for robotics in europe: sparc. this partnership not only brings the academic and research institutions, industry and business together, but also looks into questions related to ethics and law. sparc is by far the biggest civilian research programme in this area in the world, with eur 700 million from eu funding from horizon 2020 to be leveraged up to eur 2.8 billion by private investment. ladies and gentlemen, for a very long time, robots were a kind of a futuristic idea. today, they are a fact of life. they are operational in our industry and used in many sectors of the economy and life. robots in the internet of things are going to be the internet of the intelligent things, and they will move beyond manufacturing and industry into areas such as transportation, medicine, care for the elderly, and financial services. as mr mayer said, they will complement human skills. and let me tell you that this is only the beginning. without doubt, we need to frame and facilitate the technical revolution brought by autonomous systems, because we all want europe to remain the leader in this field and make sure robotics and artificial intelligence continue to bring benefits to european citizens, industry and especially smes and start-ups that are active in this sector. as commissioner for research, science and innovation, i recognise that we have to further invest in scientific understanding of the technical aspects of artificial intelligence and of its socio-economic impacts, as well as of its consequences for the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy. but let me stress that moving forward in this area needs to be guided by an ethical approach based on principles and values enshrined in the treaty on the european union and in the charter of fundamental rights. let me now comment in particular on your request for the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal on civil liability for damage caused by robots. first, as you know, we already have eu legislation applying to robots. the machinery directive, the general product safety directive, the proposed legislation on medical devices, and the regulation on common rules in the field of civil aviation currently under revision also includes concrete measures to ensure the safe operation of civil drones. and the new general data protection regulation that will also be fully applicable to any kind of processing of personal data, which includes artificial intelligence and robots. second, we are obviously looking at any need for adjustment of the current legislation. and third we are well aware that legal certainty on liability is of paramount importance for innovators, investors and consumers, providing them with the legal certainty they need. but the complexity of digital technologies makes it particularly difficult to determine who is liable and to what extent in case of failure. that is why the commission has put in its communication and presented a communication last month on building up a european data economy. we are consulting with a wide range of stakeholders on the new challenges in this field, covering the liability questions relating to autonomous systems. simultaneously, we are evaluating the product liabilities directive with regard to emerging technologies. fourth, testing and experimenting will be important as will gathering data and gaining experience. this in turn will then help us with designing a suitable legal framework. on the communication on building a new european data economy, we included plans for cross-border corridors to test connected automated driving. my fifth and final point on the question of legislation is to underline the importance of smart legislation, technologically neutral and future proof when dealing with technologies and jobs. as ms delvaux said, we cannot even imagine what they will be in the future. honourable members, i agree with you that the impact of digitalisation on our societies and our labour market needs to be closely monitored and anticipated, and we have to improve our understanding of this phenomenon. the different studies that have assessed that evolution reached diverging conclusions from catastrophic predictions on the labour market to a positive impact on job creation. in 2015, the fraunhofer institute indicated that eu companies which are intensive users of robotics are less likely to offshore production to low-cost regions because robots improve their cost production so much that they can stay in high-wage regions and create other jobs. we all know that technological change will not only replace or change existing tasks, but it will, as mr mayer said, create new jobs in services, it will complement human skills. robots are also used in many areas with labour shortages such as healthcare, farming and even manufacturing. many robots do tasks that are repetitive and dangerous for humans, such as inspecting oil tanks or welding metal parts. far from replacing humans, robots allow the workforce to focus on other more economically useful, creative or social activities where robots cannot and will never replace us. the commission is fully aware of the challenges ahead and has already launched concrete measures to address them. we adopted a new skills agenda for europe, the digitising european industry blueprint and, last december, we launched a digital skills and jobs coalition, which aims at equipping the workforce at large with the necessary digital skills to thrive in a digital workplace. ladies and gentlemen once again, i would like to thank the european parliament for this timely and comprehensive report and for the support for our activities. the issues raised and the measures proposed will need broader consultation and an in-depth analysis of their impact and consequences before we can draw conclusions, including on the possible legislative needs. thank you for attention and i’m looking forward to our discussion.
thank you very much, commissioner! it is with great satisfaction that i take note of your appearance in response to mrs delvaux's appeal or to quote mr mayer. it means we're having a debate here. thank you very much for that, commissioner.
madam president! the pace of robotics is accelerating and unstoppable. i think that's good news. it's a growing market for products and services in almost every field. innovative robotics solutions are changing the reality we live in very dynamically, and while this opens up the potential for new opportunities for our citizens, it also poses a huge challenge. the labour market is about to change. to be able to adapt well to them, we need first of all to have reliable analyses and data on the impact of robotics on demand, on specific jobs and on competences in the labour market. it is also important that our employment and social policies are flexible and able to respond to these changes in a way that ensures a good quality of work for workers while maintaining an adequate level of social protection.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. of course, there is no doubt that the cost of upgrading and building infrastructure is enormous. each member state bears the burden, and it is understandable that the responsibility for the good condition of roads and the resulting safety is borne in part by their users. it is therefore worth pointing out that the introduction of tolls is not the subject of this debate. the problem we are discussing here is discrimination and a system which clearly favours only nationals of one member state. we may be faced with a situation where the drivers who use these roads most frequently in germany are exempted from paying these charges and the costs are borne by foreign drivers, including to a large extent polish drivers. it is difficult to understand the commission's behaviour, which, despite the first correct reaction, has suspended the procedure for clarifying the objections to the compatibility of the idea with european law, even though the main complaint is still valid. we expect clear answers on the conditions under which the commission has suspended the infringement procedure and how it intends to protect drivers travelling through germany against discrimination on grounds of nationality.
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam member, i think you know that discrimination even if it is dressed in a seemingly non-discriminatory way if it is intended to offend some users, it remains discrimination. the state is basically appealing to a national logic which would be completely justified if it were not for the fact that we agreed not to apply it. you ask others to abandon it, and then suddenly you say: for germany to defend its own interests is something completely natural and we will apply it. either we think in european terms or we don't!
in writing. there is no doubt that the charging of motorway tolls is the exclusive competence of the member states. however, it is also clear that those charges should be imposed in a non-discriminatory manner, charging all road users equitably. the original german proposal to charge motorway tolls only to foreigners was clearly incompatible with eu law and was rightly referred to the court of justice. the new proposal, which is the result of a compromise between the german government and the european commission, is better than the original proposal, but in my view it does not remove the basic complaint of discrimination against foreign motorway users. german drivers will receive a reduction in road tax, which will de facto compensate for the need to buy a vignette. i believe that the compromise is an attempt to cover up the problem, not to solve it.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the road toll system proposed by germany infringes the principle of equal treatment of european union citizens. it cannot be agreed that drivers from other countries should pay certain amounts for the journey while german drivers should have a tax credit. as a result, only foreigners will pay the toll for the crossing of germany. at the same time, the commission's attitude, which seems to allow for such a solution, is disappointing. i would like to stress that each country has the right to introduce tolls, but wherever they are in place, they cover the same level of residents of the country as foreigners. finally, a sad reflection: the actions and attitudes we are talking about today discourage and disappoint eu citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues, shadow rapporteurs from the committee on industry, research and energy, because i was a shadow there and rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, for the great cooperation which has resulted in us getting this report into a positive shape. we need open science followed by open innovation in europe. we have to overcome all institutional and mental barriers to create a good background for the european open science cloud initiative. it is key to use the horizon 2020 sources more strongly and faster, to speed up modern science developments, especially to start with the european supercomputer, to attract scientists to be more open, to ensure interoperability and technological support for the secure cloud, to involve all partners in the data computing processes. we need to share data and the results of research under conditions of security, privacy protection and modernised intellectual property. open access to data, based on clear rules, better usage of text and data mining possibilities are the new drivers. open data-driven science and the big data-driven economy are two sides of the same coin. opening the data is the future. locking up is the past.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the cor fully supports the idea of sharing all scientific data developed under horizon 2020 through the european open science cloud. but we have doubts about the role and value of the european commission in shaping the future of this sector in terms of infrastructure development and resource use. we believe it is essential that such work is carried out by the industry and takes account of market realities. the european commission should not interfere too much in the functioning of the market in this area. the centralised 'one size fits all' approach presented by the commission is not the right solution. in addition, the communication states that the european cloud initiative should be supported by funding under horizon 2020, but also states that additional public-private investment of eur 4.7 billion will be needed over five years. the commission does not indicate on what basis it has determined that investments of this size will be necessary.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his explanation and his determination to establish a european open science cloud because this really is our future. i would also like to thank all my colleagues, who have mentioned many issues here. i think that we can conclude by talking about five conditions for open science data, for the development of the open science cloud initiative. firstly, infrastructure – how to make the infrastructure much more adjusted. we need to develop 5g, we need to have this european supercomputer, and we need to develop and have a network of european high performance computing centres. secondly, principles: we need a much more secure cloud and we need to implement the general data protection regulation (gdpr) and privacy protection. we also need, i think, to discuss how to use anonymisation in processing the data. thirdly, cooperation of all partners, because i think it is very important to involve scientists, to involve universities, to involve business and to involve citizens. fourthly, we need to promote this solution because there are many mental barriers, including in our universities among our scientists. and last, but not least, we need to discuss financial resources for the development of those issues because this is very crucial, so we need to discuss how to use money from horizon 2020, but we also need to discuss now what will happen after 2020.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the european structural and investment funds are a very necessary and important instrument. the positive effects of these measures are evident at every step, especially in new member states such as poland, where they have been an impetus to accelerate the development of my country in many areas. is the efsi working perfectly? of course you didn't. we need to improve synergies between the different funds, better identify the objectives of these funds and remove further administrative barriers to access to these funds for local governments and smes. as the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport, i would like to emphasise in particular the role of the efsi in the infrastructure construction process. it is clear that without these measures, the completion of the ten-t network in its final form would not have been possible. a change in the functioning model of the structural funds is needed because development challenges are constantly changing, but too much reliance on different types of financial instruments can be detrimental to their main objective of bridging the gap between the countries and regions of the union.
in writing. the european structural and investment funds have become one of the main sources of public investment in recent years. in some member states, more than 60% of investments were financed from this source. they seem to have served their purpose, especially during the budget crisis. today we should be thinking about how to make them more efficient and add value. high unemployment, especially among young people with skills that are not suited to the needs of employers, is a fundamental problem in many member states. however, today, infrastructure problems are often a barrier to finding employment. it would therefore be good to consider how to effectively reconcile the needs of developing the infrastructure necessary for a modern economy, such as increasing broadband internet access in rural areas, with the need to adapt education and training systems to the requirements of a modern economy. the situation on the labour market is changing very rapidly and we need to find the right response mechanisms also at eu level. access to the funds needs to be simplified and made more flexible. the changes introduced in recent years have had the opposite effect, e.g. delays in the actual implementation of cohesion policy. it is good that the commission, the council and governments learn from the current programming period and do not make similar mistakes again. we cannot afford to undermine the effectiveness of one of the few instruments available to stimulate growth and create jobs.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the aviation industry plays a very important role in generating economic growth, jobs and innovation. the concern about this sector is therefore fully justified. european airlines, including polish airlines, are profitable and doing very well on the world market. they should be assisted in their development in every possible way, including by negotiating favourable bilateral agreements. i am glad that mr telička has given due attention in this report to the issue of air transport accessibility, which varies greatly from one region to another and from one member state to another. with the current level of mobility, the availability of affordable connections and airports relatively close to home is of paramount importance. this accessibility can be ensured by free competition in the aviation market, including with non-eu operators and low-cost airlines, and by an appropriate level of investment in infrastructure. of course, all initiatives for the future of air transport must give priority to passenger safety. however, the frivolous use of this argument in all disputes, including disputes between employers and employees, cannot be accepted.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! we were just talking about aviation in europe. it's important to the citizens of our countries. now we have started a topic that is important for the image of the european union, because it is important that we show, even in times of great institutional and economic crisis in europe, that there are certain values that are not for sale. if the values that are not for sale in the european union are the protection of human rights where they are violated, i think we have had problems with nicaragua for many, many years. it is good that our parliament, above all political divisions, is dealing with this humble woman francesca ramirez who is defending the rights of the indigenous population, because these indigenous people are being taken away for priceless plots for the construction of the power plant. and it's good that we're taking a stand on this. we're actually doing this for ourselves in a way so that we can tell ourselves in the future that we were trying to defend human rights. perhaps in years to come we will see that this was one of the most important activities in this parliament.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 135 of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2016.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on guatemala, in particular the situation of human rights defenders (2017/2565 ((rsp)).
madam commissioner, thank you for your important speech.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 135 of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2016. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr president, i did not support mr verhofstadt's report, and i personally think that we need to talk about how to solve europe's problems, but i do not think that the answer to the present problems is more rapid integration. i believe that if we follow the path proposed in mr verhofstadt's report, the steps contained in it will lead to an increase in anti-european integration sentiment in some member states and that other countries may follow the example of brexit. that is why i voted against the report, precisely because i would not like to see the european union disintegrate again. i am in favour of european integration, but the proposal which has been adopted today is, in my view, utterly utopian, a dead end and far removed from the real mood of the citizens of the european union in the individual member states. so i hope that it ends up being just this theoretical report.
mr. chairman, please! the verhofstadt report is a negation of europe as it is. in this sense, it is the negation of the european unity to which it refers. if we really want a europe of solidarity, we should follow a short, simple principle: as many common competences, institutions and interests as there are common values. today, unfortunately, europe is in a deep moral crisis and is not a community of values, but fortunately, europe is a community of destiny. we have a common history, we have common institutions and we have a sense of the need for a common interest. but if we are to build on this basis a genuine european solidarity, then those who speak about it, if they really want it, must first of all gain mutual respect and abandon their arrogance and federalist fanaticism.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against it on the merits. we're doing a project that's against the assumptions, and the assumptions were right. the european union was to be a forum for the agreement of independent and sovereign states to ensure the peaceful development of europe. meanwhile, we're working on a completely different project. we are implementing a project that deprives states of their independence and sovereignty, that violates this sovereignty and independence by imposing some universal laws and principles for all. if such laws and principles were applicable in every country, they would have been in place long ago. if there are different legal solutions, because the problems of individual countries are different, then this must be respected, so the intentions of this union must be respected and the peaceful development of independent and sovereign states in europe must be achieved. i am in favour of this project, which is why i voted against it.
mr. chairman, please! the near future, 2017, will decide the fate of the european union, that is, it will answer the question 'quo vadis, europa?' it's going to be a domestic event with europe in the background, because in addition to the brexit process being launched, there's the dutch elections in two weeks, then the french presidential elections, and then the german elections. these national choices and decisions will have a greater impact on the future of europe than even the best-designed white paper and the best-organised celebration of the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome - i wish it were as well organised as it is, but the 50th anniversary was already a celebration of the elite rather than of europeans themselves. while these decisions will be national, the agenda for these elections will be fully european. migration, refugees, terrorism, the future of the euro area, common defence - these are risks and these are opportunities. the risk is that there are populist and xenophobic forces on the ground, but there is also an opportunity because they live in real and genuine fears, but they don't give any real answers. we are waiting for the commission to respond. we have scenarios, not a plan. but next week, without having that plan yet, we can make the desired continuity act amidst the many uncertainties, which is to extend donald tusk's mandate as head of the european council. let it be.
i would ask you to keep the time limit, otherwise i will have to take the floor. following the example of my predecessors, i will not be voting on the blue card, as we are very late.
mr president, on energy union and nord stream ii, i expect that, instead of meeting gazprom envoys, the commission will ensure eu jurisdiction over the project, publish analyses requested by the council, including from dg energy, and supports ukraine and other cee countries politically. by doing this, the commission will bring credibility and solidarity back to the concept of energy union.
mr szanyi, the second part of your speech was not a point of order.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the last days before the next european council are an important time for reflection and thinking about what issues should be prioritised and what should be discussed most. at a time when europe is facing numerous challenges and problems requiring rapid and decisive action, we must also not forget to analyse carefully the sources and causes of the current situation. lessons must be drawn from good decisions, and perhaps even more from less effective ones, and new sources of risks and new opportunities must be identified. the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome will be a good opportunity to do so. the european council in march will of course focus on the economy, particularly its further digitisation to improve production processes and trade. the development and maintenance of the eu's single market remains a key issue. particular attention must be paid to ensuring that there is free movement of goods, capital, people and services, free from unfair trading practices or non-tariff barriers. attention must also be paid to the next steps to mitigate the consequences of the migration crisis and to work on improving the functioning of the eu's external borders, which is the natural consequence of the abolition of borders between member states the eu's external border becomes its only border.
in writing. security and defence issues have been permanently placed on the agenda of european council summits. given the current international situation, that's good. it is now crucial that the decisions taken at the previous summit, in particular those on the implementation of the global strategy and the european defence action plan, are implemented with the full involvement of the member states. it is also important that the eu and its member states work more efficiently internally, but also in cooperation with nato. at the last munich security conference, federica mogherini said that 42 joint projects between nato and the eu have been undertaken in the last seven months. it's a step in the right direction. the new us administration also requires europe to become more involved in the north atlantic alliance, which must be accepted with understanding and awareness of the challenges. so you have to roll up your sleeves. i also hope that donald tusk will be re-elected president of the european council. any change in this position will not serve to stabilize the situation in europe. moreover, during his two and a half years in office, donald tusk has shown the kind of leadership that the eu needs in these difficult times.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on tackling the problem of missing migrant children in europe (2017/2566 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i'm glad to be speaking. my last appearance was unfortunately cancelled because i was sitting in your seat. we talk about dramas, human dramas, because the disappearance of a child is a tragedy for any parent. i have three children myself, and i think most of us are well aware of this drama and the scale of this drama. i think we should all the more try to invest the funds of the individual member states, and also of the european union, in the countries from which these people are leaving, fleeing. i think the more investment and improvement in the living standards of people outside europe, the less of this kind of tragedy on the old continent, our continent. i think it's worth mentioning in this discussion.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by expressing my thanks for your contribution to this debate and for your interventions that call for actions to protect children. a few of you, i believe, did not hear my introductory remarks, but most of you were here, and i believe that the common conclusion is that we share the same concerns and objectives. i can assure you that the commission is working on concrete and comprehensive actions to protect children in migration and offer them a future. tomorrow the commission will adopt a package of reports that show that all actions are interlinked. relocation – and this was underlined by some of you earlier – is the key solidarity measures also for migrant children, and i agree with you that that this situation is unsatisfactory. all migrants eligible in greece and in italy should be relocated before september. it is a deadline for all member states, and i believe that all of them will take up their responsibilities and will move swiftly to the implementation of this relocation scheme. relocation of unaccompanied minors should increase as a matter of absolute priority for us and for all of us. i said at the beginning that detention is a tool of last resort that should not be excluded per se, but only used in cases where it is in the best interest of the child. let me stress that the european legislation requires member states to place minor migrants only in specialised detention centres that are adapted for migrants so that they have access to leisure activities. sometimes, as i said before, this is for their own protection because let us be clear: the reality out there on the ground is not ideal. we have to prevent minors falling into the hands of unscrupulous smugglers and traffickers that wait outside open detention centres, so closed centres can be appropriate in some cases. some of you, like me, have been visiting these places. children are the easiest victims of smugglers and traffickers. colleagues, our primary, common goal is to protect children and i would like also to call on ngos with expertise to support the authorities of member states under pressure even more. the protection of children of course needs to be regulated, but it is the responsibility of our societies, of all of us as a whole, and the commission has taken the lead on that but, as was said very correctly before, member states should take their share and i fully agree with the proposal to sensitise and mobilise your colleagues in the national parliaments. we have to address this issue together, united, and i do not think there is one person among you, or among the members of the commission or among your colleagues in the national parliaments, that does not share our determination, our commitment, to safeguard and support this vulnerable group of the migrants that have decided to cross rough seas, fire, dictatorships, difficulties and dangers in order to come to europe. it is our duty and it remains, as i said before, our top priority to address this very, very sensitive issue.
thank you for that final statement you made. you'll notice we were talking about children. we never talked about the smile of a child, the joy of a child, but something else entirely. we therefore expect concrete action. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the gender pay gap (2017/2567 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner jourová, first of all let me thank you for the opportunity to intervene here today on the topic of the gender pay gap. equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the european union. it is enshrined both in our treaties and in article 23 of the european union charter of fundamental rights. in 1975, the treaty of rome was successfully invoked to defend the rights of an air hostess who worked for the belgian national airline, sabena. she felt it was unfair that she was paid less just because she was a woman. she demanded equal treatment and won her case in the european court of justice. that groundbreaking european court ruling more than 40 years ago opened the way for the first european directives on gender equality. mainstreaming this principle in all our activities represents an important mission for the union. promoting equal economic independence for women and men, including by closing the income gap, is a crucial element necessary to ensure de facto gender equality. however, as we all know, equality on paper does not always translate into factual equality. the principle of equal pay for work of equal value has long been enshrined in european law. nonetheless, women in europe continue to earn, on average, around 16% less than men. in some member states, the gender pay gap is over 20% and when it comes to pensions the situation is even bleaker, with a gap of 38.5% on average across the european union. the causes of the gender pay gap are many. however, an important underlying problem is that society seems to value women’s work, paid or unpaid, less than the work of men. firstly, the sectors employing a majority of women are also those sectors where pay tends to be the lowest. these include care work, cleaning services, casual work and so on. secondly, women tend to be employed in more junior positions compared to men, a phenomenon we call the glass ceiling. thirdly, women often have less continuity in their careers, as compared to men. this is because they so often give up their jobs or reduce their working hours in order to work at home. finally, there is the crucial issue of lack of transparency in pay. it is hard to fight unfairness when unfairness is hidden. these challenges are common in all member states, however their extent, dimension and context all differ from one member state to another. this is why the actions that need to be taken in order to address this complex issue of the gender pay gap vary accordingly. gender equality policies are essential instruments in economic terms. they also lead to greater prosperity, competitiveness and employment. they increase inclusiveness and social cohesion. honourable members, what measures should be taken to close the gender pay gap? greater pay transparency can help the underpaid fight for their rights. jobs should be classified mutually and fairly. also, we must focus on the quality of jobs: while flexibility is important, it should not be forcibly imposed on workers, for example, in the form of precariousness or involve involuntary part-time work. moreover, more women are needed in company boardrooms and in other decision-making groups. finally, we must ensure that both sexes can benefit from the opportunities offered by the digital economy, the green revolution, robotics and by the many other transformative developments in the labour market. to achieve this, we should start with education, as gender stereotyping starts very early in our lives. we should encourage more girls to study science, engineering, technology and maths. the it sector, of course, is another area where women are under-represented and where their talents are needed. we also need to take a closer look at the concept of a correct work-life balance. this can be addressed through a variety of measures, which include better access to childcare and child services for dependents, as well as flexible work arrangements or leave provisions. this is true also for men. in this context, the council looks forward to the forthcoming initiative from the commission on improving the work-life balance. i would like to thank the european parliament for its continuous commitment to maintaining the issue of the gender pay gap on the european agenda. i believe this is an issue on which our two institutions have much common ground. the council has, in particular in the last two years, worked on the gender pay and pensions and on women in poverty. on friday, the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council will discuss measures to enhance the skills of women and men in the labour market. in this context, ministers will also consider further measures aimed at addressing the gender pay gap. moreover, in the context of the european semester, the council will adapt recommendations to improve women’s labour market outcomes and to reduce the gender pay gap. to summarise, we must continue to work together. only by turning words into actions will we succeed. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, equality between women and men is a fundamental value of the european union, enshrined in the treaty from the very beginning. the treaty of rome, whose 60th anniversary we will remember in a few days, already included a provision on equal pay, opening the way for a broader gender equality policy in europe later on. over the last 60 years, women have reaped the benefits of education and massively entered into the labour market. sixty per cent of new graduates today are women. yet, after undeniable encouraging developments, the gender pay gap seems to have stabilised at 17% in the eu. compared to men, women are also less likely to be in paid employment, to sign permanent and stable work contracts, and they tend to work fewer hours. the glass ceiling still exists: although women have made inroads into economic decision-making positions, less than 5% of company leaders in the eu are women. so it is clear that to finally erase the gender pay gap, we have to do much more. we know the gender pay gap has various root causes and my aim is to have a set of different measures to effectively tackle these roots. in other words, each of those sources of pay gap requires different solutions. in 2014 we adopted a recommendation on strengthening the principle of equal pay between men and women through transparency. we proposed a package of measures which could be adopted by member states to effectively fight the direct discrimination in pay for work of equal value, and we work with the member states to assess how these measures were implemented and how it works in practice. ladies and gentlemen, i can only share with you that our assessment is that transparency is very important but it does not do magic. discrimination, which means different pay for the same work, is already prohibited by eu law, so we are pushing for better enforcement of the legislation in force. but discrimination is unfortunately not the only cause of the gender pay gap. we witness the horizontal segregation of the labour market. women tend to be grouped in sectoral jobs which are under-paid and valued less, such as the social care sector, for instance. it is our intention to support both women and men to go for the less and non-traditional jobs. a good example is the digital sector, already mentioned here by the presidency, where there are only 30% of women, and we know it is the sector of the future. we pay for projects to get more girls and women into this sector. and, yes, education is the way to solve this problem as well. there is also an issue of part-time jobs. it is clear that during some period of time people might need to use the working arrangement to better reconcile work and private duties. however, it should not be a rule that only women are going for part-time jobs, and there needs to be a guarantee for employees who choose the temporary arrangement to resume full-time work. it is one of the provisions we intend to promote in the package of measures to improve conditions for working parents and carers, the so called ‘work-life balance package’, which is a joint initiative with commissioner thyssen. the commission should adopt this package of legislative and non-legislative measures on 21 april. one of the big challenges is the unequal sharing of care responsibilities between women and men. among the working population, women spend on average 21 hours a week on caring and household activities compared to nine hours spent by men. it has a lifelong effect on women’s careers, earnings and unfortunately also pensions, where we now have a harmful 40% gap as a reward to women for their lifelong care for their families. all this shrinks their economic independence. this is not acceptable: all talents must be properly valued and recognised; and a better work-life balance should be sought for both men and women. when providing parents with choice and opportunities, we also aim to eradicate the negative lifelong effect of ‘no-choice available’ on women’s careers, earnings and pensions. i already said in one of the plenary sessions when we discussed the pay gap and work-life balance initiative that it is our duty to remove the barriers for working parents to combine better work and family duties and it will be the free choice of people to use these opportunities. this is the philosophy which you will see in the package on work-life balance which we are preparing. this is, as you know, one of our initiatives for 2017, and this is also an initiative related directly to the european pillar of social rights. the commission is also undertaking a number of policy and awareness-raising actions to address the gender pay gap. as you know, we initiated the european equal pay day; we encourage the exchange of best practices among member states and we co-finance member state initiatives through the structural funds and actions by civil society. talking of structural funds, there will be a very rich chapter in the new package on work-life balance to encourage the member states to use better and more intensively the eu structural funds for creating more and better and affordable social care facilities, whether it be crèches, kindergartens or facilities for caring for seniors, because this money should serve people. i cannot imagine many more and better opportunities to use this money for a really good purpose. ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to the debate with you now.
thank you very much, commissioner. we've heard two statements, the picture seems pretty clear. the two statements are similar in spirit, there are no significant differences, and the statements that have fallen seem to indicate that both the council and the commission intend to fulfil their functions. before i say goodbye to you and thank you for the 60 minutes we spent together, i would like to announce that we are not going to use the blue card procedure in this debate.
blue-card question. – do you know which was the place in the polish theoretical physics olympiad, the first place of women, of girls? i can tell you: 800th. do you know how many women are in the first 100 chess players? i can tell you: not one. of course women must earn less than men because they are weaker, they are smaller, they are less intelligent, and they must earn less. that is all.
madam president! in the context of today's situation, i would like to draw your attention to my homeland. for many months now, the eu institutions have been pursuing poland. its basic element is the repetition of lies about the situation of women in poland, as well as about the allegedly broken democracy. these are obvious insinuations, as evidenced by the recently published pwc report women in work index 2017, which shows that poland is among the countries with the lowest pay gap at only 7%. the pricewaterhousecoopers report also indicates that if the current trend continues, the wage gap in poland will be eliminated by 2021, the fastest among all oecd countries surveyed. ladies and gentlemen, this is how equality is measured, not by lies, but by facts. poland has been very successful in this field. you can learn from us.
ladies and gentlemen! today we're talking about the pay gap. this is the indicator that we use to monitor and evaluate both the european commission and the member states when it comes to the situation of women. i would like to point out that the pay gap illustrates and diagnoses only a fraction of the wage and economic differences between women and men. the gap that we use in our statistics, the wage gap, only reflects the differences in hourly rates of base pay in a given sector of the economy. this means that this indicator does not take into account allowances for seniority, for functions, for positions held, for overtime, for additional projects. it doesn't take into account things like awards, it doesn't take into account non-salary perks like company cars, cell phones, laptops, etc., that are usually associated with high-level positions that very rarely go to women. so if we really wanted to compare the earnings of women and men within the industry, we should actually compile their annual pits filed with the tax office. such a comprehensive pay gap would be a better measure of the gender gap in the labour market. we know that this overall gap, because it's measured, is about 38% in the european union, and so is the pension gap, which also kind of covers more elements of pay than the wage gap. i'm not going to let you down. i am calling for a change in the methodology for calculating the pay gap and for the use of the overall gap or the pension gap as a measure of the gender gap.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. this is not the first time we've talked about gender equality in different areas of life. today we are talking about this very specific area of justice, and this is the european edition of the european court of justice. indeed, in december 2015, we concluded such a gentleman's agreement with the council representatives in order to complete the legislative basis for the next reform of the european court of justice - a reform that we considered necessary. we are fully aware that this is not a document that obliges anyone to do anything, but it is a gentleman's agreement, an agreement that we will insist on being respected. and here i want to thank very much to madame delvaux for preparing this question. my conclusion is this: if we look at the employment of judges in the member states, we can see that the majority of judges are women. it is difficult for me to imagine today that among this large number of female judges, we will not find women who meet the highest standards required for the function of judge of the european court of justice. we therefore call on the member states to consider our agreement, and i say this with a clear conscience, because my country has appointed two women to the european court of justice.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, as i stated initially, the promotion of gender equality in high—level positions in the eu institutions, including in the union courts, is an important political objective shared by our institutions. while in the most recent appointments at the general court we have seen a slightly higher percentage of women than before, there is clearly still scope for improvement. we could ask what else could be done to promote gender equality in the composition of the general court. it is difficult to understand that, while in many member states women are well represented in national judicial functions, this is still not the case in the european union’s court. perhaps it is due to the fact that, for judges at the general court, relevant experience of at least 12 to 15 years is requested, and that women are less represented in this category of experienced lawyers and judges. some paths towards improving the situation have been outlined, as i have already mentioned, in the council conclusions of 7 december 2015 on equality between women and men in the field of decision—making, in which the council called on governments and the social partners to establish far—reaching equal opportunities policies and to set targets and timelines to further develop and implement effective measures aimed at ensuring the balanced representation of women and men in decision-making and leadership, including training, mentoring and sponsoring schemes. this could be food for thought, inter alia, as regards the preparation of suitable female candidates for judges’ posts at the general court, and might contribute, over time, to improving the overall gender balance among judges. finally, i think that we could again take stock of the situation once the last stage of the reform has been completed, which should be sometime in 2020. in the meantime, i am confident that discussions like this one contribute to the public debate on the issue and to awareness raising in the capitals. thank you very much for this debate and for your attention.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! the overarching objective of the energy union is to ensure energy security for its members, which depends to a large extent on diversification of supply. the compatibility of intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy with union law is one of the conditions for the proper functioning of the internal energy market, the enhancement of security of supply and diversification. however, as we all know, the commission has not yet had an effective tool to prevent contracts being concluded which are not in line with eu law and the objectives of the energy union. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the implementation of the union's energy policy, in particular by examining the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the implementation of the union's energy policy. in february last year, the commission presented a draft modification of the decision in this case. since then, we have been working intensively within the committee on industry, energy and research to establish verification mechanisms for these agreements. i must stress that without very good cooperation with the counter-rapporteurs of the various political groups and their advisers, such a rapid legislative path would not have been possible. i just wanted to say thank you so much. this period of very intense negotiations fell within the final period of the slovak presidency. we have also worked very well with the slovak presidency on this document. i would also like to thank the chairman of itre, professor buzkow, for the commitment, the cooperation, which is not always obvious among politicians of different political orientations, but i think it was indeed a very good cooperation. i am convinced that the draft decision we are about to adopt tomorrow can provide citizens and countries with greater energy security. it will also be the first legislative act to implement the 28 member states' common energy strategy. of course, this project is the result of a compromise reached in the negotiations between the political groups in the commission and in the negotiations with the council, and as with any compromise, it requires some concessions. the most important provisions of this document are that draft contracts for the supply or transmission of natural gas and oil will be verified by the european commission before they are ratified, i.e. ex ante. until now, we have only had to deal with ex ante verification and only in the light of existing eu rules; now energy security, broadly defined, is also becoming an additional verification criterion. however, the present form of the decision did not allow for ex ante verification of the electricity contracts. however, it is worth noting that according to the wording of the review clause, they could be included in the scope of the verification at the next update of the rules. the ex ante verification clause also does not cover so-called non-binding instruments and hybrid contracts. as regards non-binding instruments, the notification criteria are much less restrictive in this case, but it is important that they are defined in this decision, which opens up the possibility of introducing a more detailed review of these instruments in the future. the draft also omits hybrid contracts, but in the tripartite negotiations the commission undertook to issue a statement that the review clause in article 10 of the decision enables the commission to request in the future that such contracts be included in the scope of the review. these are agreements which are concluded between states, governments and formally non-governmental entities, but in which third states play a dominant role. thank you very much, i will of course speak at the end of our debate.
mr. chairman, please! i do not agree with my predecessor on the assessment of this agreement, but i will start with what most of the speakers in this chamber have started with, namely, congratulations to the rapporteur. this was professor krasnodębski's first report to the european parliament and if you hear such praise, it must have been good. i say this knowing, of course, the warm words he has addressed to me. i'm sure we're being very sincere. this shows that the european parliament can work effectively across political divides on the issues that matter most to the european union and to our citizens. so once again, i congratulate the european commission, which is very important, and the two presidencies last year. we're really pleased with this result. this is the beginning of the energy union legislation, the first legislation, but remember: the biggest difficulties are usually with implementing what we have already passed. and all of that is still ahead of us. it is not just the further energy union solutions that are already on the table and that we are working on and will be working hard on in the itre committee that matter, but perhaps even more importantly, it is that we are talking today about how we are going to implement and how we are going to enforce them. recent experience with the tensions surrounding the nord stream 2 investment shows that implementation and enforcement in the european union and within the energy union will be paramount.
member of the commission. – mr president, members, thank you for your contributions to this debate. the energy union is one of the ten priorities of the juncker commission. let me stress in this respect that reaching an agreement on one of the proposals of the security of gas supply package adopted in february last year is an important step towards the realisation of the energy union. it is also important to show that we can do this in just 12 months. many of you have stressed this issue, too. it shows that when there is the political commitment and we share the same clear objectives, we are able to offer concrete responses to the needs of business and of european citizens. let us keep this positive spirit for the forthcoming negotiations on the clean energy for all europeans package that is now on the table of the european parliament and the council.
the rapporteur. thank you for your positive assessment of my work. this is indeed my first legislative report in the itre committee; before that i was the author of two own-initiative reports, which obviously do not have the same legal weight as this report, which is indeed an important step towards the realisation of the energy union. i agree with prime minister buzek that the most important thing is implementation, what we do with this legislation. i would also call on the commission to be courageous and consistent, because certain decisions that are being taken, such as the opal decision or the lack of a decision on nord stream 2, are actually causing a growing scepticism in many countries whose citizens were very convinced of the european union and its merits. courage and consistency are highly desirable. and i appeal to you to do so. i would also like to refer to the criticism that has come up, not by chance, from the left and the right. it's a common occurrence in this room that colleagues on the left side of the room agree with colleagues on the right side of the room, the right side with the left. so both sides have expressed concern that we are encroaching too much on the powers of the member states, on their sovereignty, with this legislation. i have to say that i come from a political group and i personally hold the view that the sovereignty of the member states within the union, the powers of the member states, is extremely important to us here. but this sovereignty of the member states, the nation states in the union, we should build together. it should not be this way, professor marias, and a colleague in my group has also made critical remarks, it cannot be that the sovereignty of one country is at the expense of the security of the countries that are members of the same union in which we all live and whose sovereignty we are building together. that's a value we should preserve.
in writing. the establishment of an information exchange mechanism for intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments in the field of energy is a very important step forward towards a stronger and more united european energy union. i am glad that intergovernmental agreements will be subject to review by the european commission before they are signed, because this will not only ensure that they are in line with european law, but also help to ensure that they are not the result of third countries using their power over a member state. however, i believe that ex ante analysis should cover not only intergovernmental agreements but also non-binding instruments which, despite their non-binding nature, are also used for such important purposes as establishing a framework for energy infrastructure or energy supply, thus affecting the energy market in a way similar to intergovernmental agreements.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the house, and in particular the rapporteur, ms cabezón ruiz, and the shadow rapporteurs, for your enormous efforts in preparing the report on access to medicines in europe. i fully share your concern about the need to improve patients’ access to medicines and to help ensure that all patients have timely access to innovative and affordable medicines everywhere in the eu. there should be affordable and innovative medicines for each and every european citizen. the key question here is, of course, how do we balance the objectives of innovation, quality and affordability? on the one hand, we need to ensure that the industry develops truly innovative products that respect the strict rules of safety, quality and efficacy while, on the other hand, we need to make sure that this innovation remains affordable, and thus accessible, to patients throughout europe. i support member states’ initiatives to help reduce the price of medicines and increase transparency, and the commission has published a study on enhanced coordination across countries in this area. together we can all do more for european patients. your report addresses the entire life cycle of an innovative pharmaceutical’s initial research, regulatory approvals, market launch and, ultimately, entry into the market of generic competitors. let me concentrate on two aspects which figure prominently in the report: first, health technology assessment and, second, the incentive schemes aimed at encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop innovative products for unmet medical needs. i would like to start with health technology assessments. as you rightly state, health technology assessments help member states to ensure the sustainability of their health care systems, encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop products with clear therapeutic value-added benefits for patients. in 2016 the commission announced its intention to propose an initiative on strengthening european union cooperation for health technology assessment in 2017. we are working intensively on this initiative, analysing the results of the public consultation and preparing the impact assessment. in that context, i welcome the input provided by parliament on health technology assessment. concretely, your report recommends the harmonisation of health technology assessment tools and methodologies and that consideration be given to compulsory relative-effectiveness assessments at eu level, with a focus on medical and therapeutic aspects. i cannot, of course, yet indicate what the commission will propose, as we need to finalise our analysis first. your input will contribute to shaping the initiative. my aim is to come up with a proposal that has clear benefits for all – for patients firstly, for all european citizens and for member states. secondly, let me turn to the incentive system for pharmaceutical companies. a key component of this system is patents. the aim of patents is to allow companies to recover long—term investment in the research and development of new products through exclusive rights. in the pharmaceutical sector these patent rights can be extended by so—called supplementary protection certificates. this extension can be used when research and development has taken a very long time. in addition to patent rights and the supplementary protection certificates, companies can also benefit from regulatory data protection and sometimes market exclusivity periods, for example to develop orphan drugs. you will also remember that we announced our intention to improve the patent system in europe in the single market strategy. let me reassure you that this work includes a reference to supplementary patent certificates for pharmaceuticals. it is currently ongoing. let me add that we will soon launch a comprehensive study to look into the complex incentive system for pharmaceuticals, in line with the recent council conclusions. this study will investigate the impact of the current regime on innovation, availability and accessibility. we expect to have the final results of the study at the end of this year. in the meantime we published, earlier this month, an inception impact assessment announcing an evolution of the supplementary protection certificates legislation. this assessment also identifies legislative and non—legislative options for the way forward, and we intend to launch a public consultation before the summer. let me stress that your own-initiative report will provide a very important contribution to this work. i would like to emphasise that, when it comes to incentive schemes, we already have, as you know, dedicated european rules which apply for specific types of products such as advanced therapies, paediatric medicines and orphan medicines. first, in the field of paediatric medicines, as i explained last december in strasbourg, we are currently preparing a second implementation report showing how the sector functions. we are currently analysing the results from the consultation so i am not yet in a position to draw conclusions at this stage. second, in the area of advanced therapies and orphan medicines, our current focus is on the effective implementation of the legislation. in particular, for orphan medicines, let me recall that the legal framework has, for the past 17 years, enabled a strong increase in research and development activities for rare disorders. investment in this field was previously too scarce due to the very small numbers of patients concerned. i recognise that, besides health technology assessments and the incentive schemes, there are many other very important aspects covered by your report. for example, you touch upon research pricing competition and international matters. you also comment on the new forms of regional cooperation between smaller groups of member states, such as the one involving belgium, the netherlands, luxembourg and austria. your report additionally calls on the commission to submit a number of reports and to organise follow—up actions such as the creation of a new pharmaceutical forum. be assured that we will carefully analyse these suggestions. i believe we need to capitalise on the work already carried out in other forums. this is the case, for example, on the collection of pharmaceutical prices in the european database or on the guidance documents produced by international organisations. very often this work is conducted in close cooperation with the commission and member states. let me conclude by expressing once again my sincere appreciation and gratitude for the strenuous efforts put into this important report. let me remind you that the commission is also working with member states, in the expert group on safe and timely access to medicines for patients, to optimise the use of the existing regulatory tools. i am encouraged by the fact that we all share a common vision, namely maintaining a favourable environment for real innovation in the eu, while ensuring that all european patients have timely access to truly innovative and affordable medicines of good quality and safety. in the light of that, i look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you for that report. ensuring the stability of healthcare systems in an era of increased expenditure and ageing of the population requires a range of actions, including those related to access to medicines, their price and availability. this is mainly a question of using hta. this use should mainly concern generic and biosimilar medicines, as these prices are often inadequate for the cost of production nowadays. the main area to be exploited is competition in the off-patent sector, which generates the real savings. in the field of drug technology, i support the need to improve the exchange of information. there are national hta reports and the exchange of information should be very specific, especially with regard to clinical trial principles, standards, processes. i would be very careful about the economic assessment, because national systems differ, and i would leave that part of the assessment to the member states. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question: do you not think that the best way to increase the availability of medicines would be for the union to abolish all legislation on this subject and also to prohibit states from interfering in the production of medicines?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i don't agree with that kind of problem-solving. a medicine is not a substance, it's not a piece of clothing, a jacket, pants or a crumb of bread. here, very detailed studies are required, mainly safety, efficacy and therefore mainly efficacy. we can't go back to the days a hundred years ago when every traveling salesman could advertise something that was supposed to be a cure and it wasn't. this is too much money, too much progress in the financial systems of the member states to be left to free competition, to free markets.
mr. chairman, please! although the draft report on the eu's options for increasing access to medicines appears to be favourable, it is nevertheless ambiguous and may lead to companies overstating the cost of research and the price of medicines placed on the market, similar to the principle of a fair price for a medicine, which may be manipulated to maximise profits. the new commission directive is intended to regulate the pricing procedures for medicines and reimbursement schemes, and the only criterion that has been considered relevant is the criterion of market challenges. price-fixing and reimbursement systems are a matter for the member states, while the european institutions are competent to protect competition and to promote scientific research, which means that through this document the union institutions are trying to influence the member states to introduce regulations that are in line with their expectations, although the union institutions themselves are not empowered by the treaty to deal with such issues.
in writing. access to medicines is one of the most important issues for the government of each eu member state. on the one hand, with the rise of antibiotic resistance, we need to encourage innovation, which obviously comes at a cost. it costs both pharmaceutical companies and citizens. on the other hand, we must bear in mind that health budgets are generally very tight and that the wealth gap between european societies is huge. they therefore welcome the report's attention to these problems, calling for, among other things, the price of medicines to be adjusted to the level of wealth of the population, the promotion of generic medicines and the problem of so-called parallel trade, whereby richer member states buy medicines from their poorer neighbours. at the same time, i would point out that the provisions on the evaluation of the quality of medicinal products and the proposed common criteria may weaken the autonomy of the member states in deciding on the prices and reimbursement levels of medicinal products. i hope that the commission will not interpret these vague provisions in this way and decide to go into an area where it has no treaty powers to act.
in writing. in view of the dynamic development of the pharmaceutical industry, the world trade organisation (wto) has suggested that medicines should be included in the patent system and that intellectual property rights should be protected for companies involved in the development of new medicines. the right to protection of intellectual property rights is a fundamental right enshrined in article 17 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it aims to provide investors/researchers with a return on their investment, thereby guaranteeing, promoting and stimulating innovation and research for the benefit of society. this could bring many benefits and could make the pharmaceutical market one of the most attractive and profitable markets. another important aspect of the report is the harmonisation of the availability and prices of medicines for the citizens of the member states. it is important to ensure that every eu citizen has full access to innovative medicines that are safe in terms of quality and sold on the market at affordable prices. i therefore believe that we should support proposals to protect the rights of our citizens both in terms of equal access to medicines and the intellectual property rights of researchers.
mr. chairman, please! while the world was celebrating the end of world war ii, poland was in the midst of an anti-soviet armed uprising that involved over 200,000 citizens, resulting in thousands of victims being murdered by a katyn bullet to the back of the head. to honor their memory, we have been celebrating national soldier's day for the past seven years. on this day, my heart and my thoughts are in poland and with the poles. hail and glory to the heroes!
ladies and gentlemen! comrades and companions! today in poland we celebrated the day of remembrance of the cursed soldiers, soldiers who after world war ii fought underground against the communist occupier of poland; they fought after the amnesty, they fought until the death of stalin, and the last of them died only in 1963. today, the younger generation of poles remembers the heroes who fought against communism. these young men have asked me to tell you about the soldiers who fought so hard and to honor their memory with this speech. we say to them, "honour and glory". we say, "honour and glory to the heroes", but every time i walk into this building through the gates that altiero spinelli wrote on, i repeat to myself their cry, "down with communism. thank you for your attention.
mr. chairman, please! in one of the dutch so-called levenseindeklinieken, or end-of-life clinics, a woman who was depressed but aware of what was happening to her and who was defending herself was killed against her will. her fate was decided by euthanasia procedures. this macabre act will not be justified by any law, any social support, any political party, any government. i call on the vice-president of the european commission, mr frans timmermans, whose country is the victim of this tragedy, to take a position on this matter immediately. we all need to be aware that allowing the silence of official human rights advocates will be an invitation to escalate similar inhumane practices. i'm waiting for the european union authorities to respond.
member of the commission. – mr president, next year we will be celebrating, as you know, the european year of cultural heritage. this is a perfect opportunity to bring europe’s cultural richness into the spotlight and to recall the shared values that connect us and make us stronger. so let me thank this house for its strong commitment to the year of cultural heritage. the european year will also be an opportunity to take stock of what the creative europe programme is doing for the heritage sector in terms of cross-border cooperation, capacity building and awareness—raising, and more generally the european year can showcase the positive impact of the programme on europe’s cultural and creative operators. your report comes at a very good moment, at a crucial moment – halfway through the programme’s lifespan when we need to reflect on what we have achieved so far and start work to prepare the future. it is in our common interest to keep a critical eye on how the programme is implemented. i would like to thank ms sylvia costa, as rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs for their positive and constructive recommendations. they will all be carefully taken into account in the ongoing mid-term evaluation of the programme. let me just make a couple of comments. first, the policy objectives of creative europe are to safeguard diversity – and here, as commissioner for research, i feel that this is the biggest asset we have in terms of innovation and science and technology, this diversity that your programme safeguards – and make the european cultural and creative sectors more competitive. while these aims remain valid, we are faced with new political and societal challenges such as migration and the rising of populism. promoting cultural diversity goes hand in hand with opening up cultural participation to more citizens and showcasing our common values with and beyond europe’s societies. i am very happy that creative europe has proven to be flexible enough to respond to these new challenges. to give you an example, in 2016, following the refugee crisis, we issued a specific call to support cultural projects working to help integrate refugees. at the same time, the number of countries in the eu neighbourhood participating in a programme is growing; negotiations with israel and tunisia are underway. this shows the potential of cultural cooperation as a public diplomacy tool in line with the recently adopted strategy of international cultural relations. your report calls for strengthening the cross-cultural and the cross-sectoral strength. i could not agree more. key challenges such as globalisation, the digital transformation, skills development and access to financing are common to all cultural and creative players without undermining the specificities of each sector. we need to find ways to address these challenges in the framework of an integrated programme and reinforce the cross-sectional dimension further. why? because today, most innovations are at these cross-sections. we have discovered everything we could at the core of the disciplines. the new things are really at this border and that is one of the fantastic things about your programme. we are already working on these and let me give you some examples. first, through dialogue with the stakeholders involved. we have been trying to keep abreast of the changing needs of the audiovisual and cultural sectors. second, our cross-sectoral projects, such as creative hubs, are testing how best to promote innovation and ensure a structuring effect to support industry adaptations to an evolving ecosystem. finally, the guarantee facility – and you talk about it in your report – that guarantee facility is now in operation. it has been very well received with three agreements already signed with financial institutions in france, spain and romania, and there are more coming up. let me now come to the question of funding. i am fully aware that many high-quality projects cannot be funded due to the programme’s small budget and ms costa just mentioned to me before we came in how small the budget is. i am equally aware of the frustration that this creates amongst applicants and potential applicants. as you rightly point out, this is especially relevant for cooperation projects under the cultural sub-programme. we are trying to address this issue within our room for manoeuver. first, the annual budgets are scheduled to increase until 2020. secondly, we are thinking about creating a dedicated envelope for smaller cooperation projects – and you talked about it – that would allow us to reach out to new cultural organisations with little experience of working at european level and to involve more grass-roots organisations. finally, we will continue to make the programme more easily accessible to smaller cultural operators and we are doing so by simplifying our application procedures. simplifying is essential and is speeding up selection of the decisions by cutting the red tape where possible. there is only so much we can do, as ms costa told me before we came in, with 0.15%, 0.14% of the multiannual financial framework (mff) currently dedicated to creative europe. i am convinced that we can and should do better than that. let us be more ambitious for the future. i know i can count on your continued support in this respect, so let us make sure that creative europe can truly support and reinforce one of europe’s greatest assets: its culture.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to start by thanking ms costa for her very good report on the implementation of the creative europe programme and for her exemplary cooperation in the negotiations. we are very positive about the first phase of the programme. 'creative europe' is a relatively small programme with a broad scope and high ambitions. it has proved to be a remarkable success, with as many as 15 000 projects from across the union applying for funding from the european funds. it is therefore very important to increase the budget for this programme, as has already been said here, and we are calling on the commission and the member states to do so. i also believe that the media sub-programme must focus more on the digitisation of film heritage, partnerships between film schools and support for professional networks, taking into account all players in the sector, including authors and writers. the rules for participation in the programme should be more transparent and more transparent in order to increase the participation of projects in the creative europe programme. i think it is also important to open a dialogue with the music sector and to give this sector a specific importance in the 'creative europe' programme. i also welcome the launch of the creative sector finance facility and bank guarantees in the second half of 2016. it's important that this instrument works as quickly and efficiently as possible. this will enable small enterprises in the cultural and creative sectors to obtain bank loans of up to eur 750 million.
mr. chairman, please! as mr hans-olaf henkel rightly said, there was no european culture. there was catalan, castilian, swabian, bavarian, saxon, czech, english, scottish culture, and that was diversity. you all talk about diversity and i think you would like to have diversity, but you leave it to the officials and the bureaucracy has to necessarily standardize everything. we used to have maria kallas, edith piaf, anna german. mr henkel is wrong. we also have european culture. it's a shame to say that conchita wurst represents european culture, because she is understandable to all europeans.
mr. chairman, please! culture is not a community policy and i want to emphasize that this is a good thing. i am not in favour of extending the powers of the european institutions to include culture. and with respect to the creative europe programme, i want to say three things that are key. first, this program should be as unbureaucratic as possible, and i'm very pleased with the declarations that have been made today. secondly, decisions should be made much faster, because this slow decision-making, in short, is detrimental to the programme. and thirdly, and this is key, the 'creative europe' programme has the potential to make use of existing digital technologies to make it highly effective, for example by linking it to scholarship programmes such as erasmus+. i want to thank mrs. silvia costa, who ended her term as chair of the culture committee, because a few things worked out. first of all, we do have a slightly unbureaucratic program. second, the arrears were finally settled. and thirdly, the declarations made today are the result of the work of the whole committee to make this programme, together with the pilot programmes, complement the various other instruments we use.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! the committee on constitutional affairs highly appreciates the shape and implementation of this programme. in our opinion we make a number of comments, which i will summarise in three main points. first, to give value to those projects which concern european memory and civil society. secondly, the programme itself should be open to citizens, i.e. more involvement of the states and local authorities in setting priorities, bringing the national contact points closer together so that the programme is better known, and removing language barriers in the project submission process. the third issue is the opening of the programme to non-eu countries, efta countries, eea countries and eu candidate countries. we believe that the programme should be open and build real links with neighbouring countries. we also support this proposal, which provides for a stronger role for the european parliament, a clear legal basis and the involvement of the european parliament in the definition of the priorities of the programme. these are the key recommendations of the constitutional affairs committee.
mr. chairman, please! yesterday, president juncker presented a 'white paper on the future of the eu', but there will be no new start for the 27 without the involvement of europeans. the european union will not be strong without the citizens' faith in the effectiveness of this project. we should therefore aim for an active union, a union that promotes citizens' inclusion, a union that brings citizens closer to the eu institutions, but also a union that can counter the rising tide of populism and euroscepticism. this is the opportunity offered by the europe for citizens programme. it is this programme that promotes european citizenship, it is this programme that promotes civic activity and it is this programme that allows us to build a european identity, but in order to meet the challenges facing us and the union, it must be much more effective and equipped with more innovative methods. among the recommendations made by the author of this excellent report, i will highlight three that are important. first, a much more visible and enhanced communication strategy and promotion of this programme. this means activity of the national contact points. it's not for the clerks, it's for the creators, the animators. this program cannot be passed on to the convinced. it must also reach those who doubt it, so that they can join us, those who believe in the european project. secondly, the 'europe for citizens' programme, in its subject matter, in its priorities, must take account of the needs of citizens, must take account of the present and the challenges of the present. and finally, thirdly, and this is something that many of my previous speakers have raised, the funding is ...
mr. chairman, please! the objective of this programme is to contribute to the understanding of the union's history and diversity by its citizens, as well as to the building of civil society and the improvement of conditions for civic and democratic activism. this is particularly relevant in times of european euroscepticism. the simplification of the structure of the programme and its accessibility to applicants and the improvement of the submission of applications through the digital e-form are to be welcomed. the downside is that the budget for the program has been reduced compared to the previous edition. the programme allows for a creative exchange of experiences, for building links between union citizens and for promoting european values and, perhaps most importantly, for preserving the memory of our history. we note that each year there is an increasing number of valuable proposals with a high level of content and a wide range of impact at the level of many countries of the european union, but unfortunately too small a percentage of these projects has a chance of being implemented due to the low budget of this programme.
in writing. – i highly welcome any initiative that aims at bringing the european union closer to its citizens, therefore i strongly support the europe for citizens programme. the results of this have shown that there is a need for such initiatives during the time of crisis. however, the insufficient budget caused relatively a low level of success of individual projects. moreover, quite often, the lack of qualifications of applicants resulted in a lower approval rate for accepted projects. therefore, i would suggest further development of a system of training courses and workshops on drafting projects among potential applicants. furthermore, the list of possible partners in all member states would facilitate the formation of certain collaborations among units willing to enter the europe for citizens programme. i do not agree, however, with the selection of article 352 tfeu as the sole legal base for the proposal, limiting the role of parliament in the legislation process. i call for reconsidering the base for the next period of the programme. the involvement of parliament on an equal level with the council shall be re-established.
in writing. the last decade has seen a leap forward in the development of information technology and online communication tools in europe and worldwide. i believe that the use of these modern tools in public administration is therefore inevitable, and we should strive to make the political decision-making process transparent and as close as possible to the eu citizens. the potential of modern information and communication technologies would be particularly useful in building e-government, so that citizens could receive official information firsthand and, moreover, be able to handle many of their daily affairs from the comfort of their homes. equally important from the point of view of public administration would be a function that would allow citizens to be consulted on strategies on important public issues and increase their active participation in the electoral process. the potential of modern technologies and communication methods should undoubtedly be used in public life as widely as possible. however, it is also important to bear in mind the risks arising from, inter alia, the continuing restrictions on access to new technologies in many parts of europe and the relatively high incidence of lack of internet skills, which is most common among citizens aged 50+.
mr president, i move to postpone the waiver of immunity of ms marine le pen until after the presidential elections. unfortunately, if we vote for this she will get an additional 100 000 votes. she will post herself as persecuted by bureaucracy and she will win the election because of this. if she is in prison she will win the election for sure! i move to postpone. we are interfering in the electoral process in france.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend the mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy. i believe that this proposal can improve the functioning of the european union market and increase its influence on the shape of agreements concluded by member states with third countries. the previous regulations were not practical because they were based on an ex post evaluation mechanism, whereby countries were obliged to submit agreements to the commission only after they had been signed. consequently, in the event of a negative assessment, it was difficult or even impossible to revoke or amend them, as such actions could potentially cause political and economic crises between a member state of the union and a third country. the ex ante evaluation system will not only avoid these problems but also give the commission real influence over the shape of the contracts concluded. the change in the mechanism will help to increase legal certainty, as contracts will be signed earlier ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! for 60 years we have been building the european union. in this process, we have reached a point where freedom of movement for persons between member states is one of our fundamental achievements, but the union's objective is also to maintain visa reciprocity with third countries. this should be a very important principle, because on the one hand it refers to the internal principle of solidarity of the member states towards third countries, but also, in my view, it has and should have an integrationist significance internally. i regret that we are not pursuing the agreement with the united states, i am referring to ttip, because this process could also be used to ensure that the united states respects our position on visa reciprocity.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to draw attention to one thing in this vote. i am of course in favour of reciprocity, but i would point out the continuing inconsistency in this matter. we are dealing with a situation where, on both sides of the ocean, the possible consequences of not implementing the principle of reciprocity in this matter for citizens are being ignored. i think we need to be more consistent here. on the one hand, successive us presidents have promised visa-free travel, and on the other hand, the european union institutions are still fighting, inconsistently, for citizens of these five countries. i would point out the need for greater consistency, greater determination and i share those comments which concern caution in responding to the present situation.
mr. chairman, please! i have refrained from supporting the draft report on the eu's access to medicines, which, while appearing to be favourable, contains ambiguities and calls for consideration of new price control measures, such as horizontal monitoring and coordination of joint procurement, which may be subject to the new control regime, but without specifying them. the adoption of eu-wide pharmaceutical market measures to strengthen member states' negotiating positions on the introduction of fair drug prices will benefit the countries where they are concerned, and the proposed directive on drug authorisation procedures and reimbursement schemes could benefit manufacturers at the expense of patients' health, particularly in countries such as poland where around 30% of patients do not buy medicines because of excessive prices. it was noted that intellectual property laws hinder the introduction of generic medicines, which have both in the past and now represent an alternative for less well-off patients.
mr. chairman, please! i supported this report for two reasons. firstly, because the bureaucracy that limited the programme's possibilities was reduced, but also because the payment arrears that were a major shortcoming in the implementation of the creative europe programme were eliminated. but i want to make one point here. new initiatives appear from time to time - i am not talking about pilot programmes, but rather ones such as the european year of heritage 2018 - and i want to emphasise that it is a serious mistake to look to the creative europe programme for funding for such dedicated one-year projects. i would like the creative europe programme, if it exists, to be well-dedicated and not be such a repository for various new initiatives, because that simply weakens it, weakens the prestige of the european commission and also weakens all those elements that make up such dedicated programmes.
mr president, a europe for citizens is not just the name of a programme, it is a goal, it is a great and wonderful idea that we have been pursuing for decades and i am convinced that this programme has never been more important and should not be taken more seriously than it is now. now that europe, the european union is at the crossroads, at the peak, now that we are discussing among ourselves, politicians, but we should also discuss among ourselves, politicians and citizens of europe, what the future should be for our continent, but above all for our community, this programme should help us to do that. but of course, when we implement this programme, including its finances, we should take into account that the world is changing and that today we are dealing not only with this real world but also with the virtual world and in this other world we should also have a very responsible discussion with the citizens.
mr. chairman, please! i support the europe for citizens programme with one serious reservation. it should be recalled that in 2015 only 33 applications out of more than half a thousand were considered positively. that means over half a thousand different types of potential beneficiaries, associations, foundations, have been dismissed. i remember a debate on that very programme where a voice was raised to justify the refusal to fund a particular project. i imagine what that justification would look like: simply lack of resources. but i support this program for one more reason. it also contains the european parliament's information policy, which is far from perfect. i think we should support all those projects which, especially for the younger generation, make people aware of all the issues that are being discussed in the european parliament, by the european institution, and serve europe as such.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the report on the common commercial policy of the union in the context of wildlife requirements. the world is facing an unprecedented increase in the illegal trade in wild animals and plants and wildlife products. this threatens to undo decades of hard-won environmental achievements. in fact, the illegal trade in wildlife and wildlife products has become one of the most lucrative criminal activities in the world. the total value of this trade is estimated at eur 820 billion per year. illicit trade not only harms biodiversity but also has a negative impact on development and the rule of law due to its close links to corruption, which contributes to destabilising security in some of the countries at risk.
mr. chairman, please! it is indisputable that mercury poses a threat to human life and health and to the environment. i therefore fully support the updating of eu legislation, which is in line with the work of the international community and aims to limit the use and release of mercury into the environment, as emphasised by the un programme and the minamata convention. i also support the position on the phasing out of mercury-containing dental amalgam. however, it should be borne in mind that the measures taken to limit the use of mercury and mercury products must be based on common sense. these have to be decisions that are thoughtful, not just emotional. a total immediate ban on the use of dental amalgam would not be an excellent solution, either from an economic or a technical point of view. so i think our approach is balanced and probably will be consistent with the general medical principle of primum non nocere first of all, do no harm. the ecr supports this project.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. whenever we debate the functioning of businesses and firms on the european market, we must keep in mind the essential elements from which we cannot depart, namely the need to ensure that our european firms are able to operate in a stable way, so that they can develop and create more jobs, and, secondly, to ensure that our firms are competitive with firms from other markets. that's the way it is in a globalized world, there's no exception. any action of this kind must therefore be directed primarily at adopting instruments which strengthen rather than weaken it. the work on the long-term shareholder engagement directive was initially going in the wrong direction. the main obstacle was the attempt to incorporate country-by-country reporting into the directive. it was only when we succeeded in isolating this problem to a completely different legislative solution that we were able to move forward with this work and focus on the most important issues, namely the proper functioning of the capital markets and the transparency of remuneration policy. this transparency is of course of enormous importance from one point of view: a company that is in a bad financial condition cannot give its directors an unreasonably high salary because it is socially unacceptable. but only those decisions that strengthen the companies can be accepted. it was achieved in lengthy negotiations, and we will therefore vote tomorrow to accept the result. i want to thank everyone who's worked on this for a long, long time.
in writing. – the proposal of the european commission aspires to enhance the influential role of minority shareholders in listed companies. their higher engagement and stronger influence on decision-making processes would secure the long-run orientation of those shareholders. as a result, the companies would prioritise the long-term concerns over accelerating the profits and returns in the short term in order to please the demand of shareholders. i welcome the initiative and i believe it shall be considered as a substantial part of the legislation dealing with the involvement of stakeholders in corporate governance. nevertheless, i hope that addressing involvement of stakeholders other than shareholders in corporate governance, such as employees, consumers or local communities, will be high on the agenda of the european commission in the near future. the well-being of any company requires respect and engagement of all stakeholders involved. in reaction to article 3f of the proposal, addressing the engagement policy, i am convinced the basic transparency shall not be voluntary. the institutional investors and asset managers ought to be transparent about the application of their engagement policies. furthermore, regarding article 9a, i would suggest an obligation for companies to declare and disclose the ratio between the remuneration of directors and employees.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i too would like to begin by thanking both the co-rapporteurs and all the authors of the amendments for their very fruitful cooperation in the preparation of my report. i am delighted that we can discuss this report and the other two in march. this is a special month: it has become one of those months where we have a deep debate about women's rights. it is also a month when women around the world demonstrate, and despite a century of emancipation, they still have to fight for their rights. and today, as we celebrate these three reports, we are looking back at an old list of unfinished business. in both reports and probably in today's debate, we will be addressing all these issues: economic issues, the right to motherhood, the right to equal pay, freedom from violence, funding for equality and many others. ladies and gentlemen! as regards the report i have written on the implementation of the directive on access to goods and services for women and men, i would like to point out that this directive is a key point on the map of equal opportunities legislation in the european union, because it is the first to legislate on the principle of equal treatment for women and men outside the labour market and to extend it to the area of everyday life, which is access to goods and services. the most important achievement of this directive is the introduction of the same rules for women and men in the calculation of insurance contributions and consequently pension contributions in private funds. the directive eliminates the need for women and men to pay lower or higher contributions simply because of their gender. insurance companies must focus on substantive criteria, such as accident history or medical condition. this approach is a good illustration of the principle of equal treatment between women and men in general, because the fight for equal rights is nothing more than an appeal to be guided by substantive criteria, competences, achievements, rather than by gender stereotypes. the directive also contains provisions and our report refers to them which concern the protection of pregnant women and women during pregnancy and maternity. there are laws against harassment, sexual harassment. there is much talk about the need for equality bodies in the member states, such as ombudsmen, equality commissioners, who implement and monitor equality law in a wide range of legal acts. this directive has been successfully transposed into national law in all member states, but its practical functioning needs to be strengthened. that is why in this report - and this is the key message of the report - we emphasise the application of the law in practice, because as we know, paper is patient, everything can be written on it, and there are many laws in various places on the issue of equal treatment between women and men, but without political will, without social awareness, without the existence of appropriate institutions, and above all without adequate funding, the law remains dead. this is what we are calling attention to in this report: to put these provisions into practice and to strengthen the equality institutions that are responsible for enforcing this right. the report also stresses the importance of gender equality awareness among both service providers and consumers. another important element is to pay attention to new market phenomena such as the sharing economy, which is exemplified by uber and airbnb. these are new phenomena, unregulated. we must consider how and to what extent they are covered by the directive. we also discuss the istanbul convention as a tool for protection against violence and the importance of legislation to protect women during pregnancy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! women's rights, equality, these are the issues that should unite us here in parliament. i also regret, of course, the words of one of the members of parliament who has made a pejorative assessment of women, and i absolutely disagree with such terms. but i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee on women's affairs is increasingly dealing with ideological issues, and i think that this is to the detriment of women. we should be working together in this committee on the basis of good practice, because in many member states there are really very good practices in terms of women's rights, for example in terms of closing the pay gap. and my home country, poland, is such a good example of a country where the wage gap is one of the smallest in the european union. if we can keep up with the current trends, we'll have gender pay equality by 2021. let's not ideologise the work of this committee. let us fight to reduce these pay gaps in all member states as much as possible, to reduce the disparities in pensions between men and women as much as possible. let us resolutely oppose violence against women in all its dimensions: material, physical, psychological. i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we are not antagonistic. and i'm addressing this specifically to the left of the room: don't dismiss the voice of conservatives who believe that the roles of worker, mother and wife can be beautifully combined. help the women who want to connect these roles, and don't throw leftist ideology into these solutions. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. first of all, i thank you for asking. i always take questions, unlike these guys who think our questions aren't worth taking. i think that cooperation at ministerial level could be the right platform for sharing good practice. i understand that minister rafalska is very open and will be happy to meet with the relevant ministers, not only from the czech republic but also from other countries, to show how poland has managed to reduce this pay gap after many years. we support equal opportunity for all, regardless of gender.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, mr ambassador, i have to ask you to stop this. in that interesting voice you pointed out different kinds of discrimination, but don't you think that perhaps the worst kind of discrimination is the one we don't talk about, because silence about discrimination is the worst kind of structural violence. i'm talking about complete silence about women who voluntarily choose to work at home in order to take care of children, for example. we know that right now, child-rearing families are often the most economically vulnerable in society. why don't we talk about these women who are willing to give up their jobs and deserve our respect?
mr. chairman, please! it is precisely because the european union aspires to be a world leader in women's rights that we should, in exercising this power, draw attention to the psychophysical differences between men and women and legally help women to reconcile their vocation as wives and mothers with professional work or academic ambitions by including maternity and parental leave in working time and by paying parental benefits, which would guarantee a similar pension for women and men, instead of sending women to work for paternity leave, even when the most committed father is well or ill, or child support replaces the mother who loves the child. a swedish study conducted a few years ago showed that fathers preferred hunting deer or watching television and reading newspapers to caring for their children during parental leave. the equal right to power, against the natural rights of women, leads to a pathology of the family, a violence that we strongly oppose.
mr. chairman, please! it's depressing that in the debate about equality, in the debate about women's rights, a few people, especially on the left side of the room, have talked about so-called abortion as a woman's right. of course abortion is an act of violence, primarily against the unborn child, but we don't realize to what extent abortion legislation itself is a source of coercion against women. if so-called abortion becomes law, the mother may be persuaded by a wild partner, she may be persuaded by the family, she may also be - and this is particularly dramatic - persuaded by the doctor, and she often falls victim to structural pressure. the whole abortion mentality that is built on this legislation is that the woman is trapped. it's also depressing that - and this is the height of it all - that doctors who want to respect and protect life have been attacked here on many occasions. the repeated demands that doctors be forced to perform abortions are a very serious symptom of the totalitarian tendencies of the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. first of all, i would like to thank once again all those who contributed to the final version of the report on the equal right of women and men to access goods and services. not just the mps, but the advisers, the administration, who have also worked very hard. since our discussion today is so ritualistic, i would like to draw attention to two general issues in this summary. first, the absolutely crucial issue - and this is also clear from today's discussion - is to deal with the issue of work-life balance, this conflict between home and work that has been going on since the dawn of time. the first emancipated women fought for the right to education and to work, and we here in parliament today, having largely settled this matter, are fighting for the right to motherhood and to have a family on some rational terms. so that it's not a double job, so that it's not a double burden on women, but that it's just more fair and rational. this whole role-matching thing is absolutely critical. i very much appreciate and look forward to the european commission's further action on the roadmap in this area. maternity leave, parental leave, flexible working hours, the domestic worker market, day-care centres, pre-schools and care homes are also on the agenda. the second thing that is absolutely crucial is respect for the law. we have a right to equal treatment and equal rights in many places, and yet this right is still not being implemented. i'm not going to let you down. he's calling for hard laws, very specific rules, not recommendations. because every time, every time, wherever we have recommendations, we're met with disregard, disrespect, bypass or misinterpretation. if we have a recommendation, not a hard recipe, there's always some korwin-mikke who was determined to be the misogynist king of the house last week. he's not with us today. he's probably on tv or the radio. i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the media not to invite people who are sexist, who do not represent the position of parliament, and not to promote such an attitude.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! equality between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of the european union enshrined in the treaties. it should be understood primarily as non-discrimination (i.e. equal opportunities) and equal pay for equal work. this also applies to access to goods and services, where women should not be discriminated against in any way, as is often the case, particularly in relation to pregnancy and motherhood. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that women's pensions are not lower than men's pensions. unfortunately, at present, on a european scale, women's pensions are 39% lower than men's. it's unfair and it discriminates against women. member states and eu institutions should take effective action to change this situation.
mr. chairman, please! we are all watching with concern the political developments in turkey: the violation of human rights, the curtailment of political rights. turkey is reportedly turning from a liberal democracy into an outright dictatorship. in the netherlands, we have what we call liberal democracy. but can a liberal democracy violate international law by not allowing a minister to enter a consulate of his own country? does liberal democracy use sticks, water cannons and dogs against peaceful protesters? do dutch people of turkish origin have fewer rights than dutch people of turkish origin? i've always associated liberalism and democracy with something else, maybe because i'm polish. i therefore call on president timmermans to start investigating urgently whether there is a breach of european values in the netherlands or whether racism is growing there, threatening the rule of law.
mr. chairman, please! an audit, a study conducted by the supreme audit office in poland, showed that the dietary supplement market is assessed as an area of high health risk, as supplements mostly of foreign origin contained substances that threatened health and life, including narcotic substances and fecal bacteria, all based on the liberal law of several directives allowing supplements by notification. so we need to change that law. as you can see, the two-speed europe has been around for a long time, not just because of the lower quality of products destined for the central and eastern european markets. as president holland said, first-speed europe has the money, and we have the principles. the problem is that using money without rules leads to destruction and - as with supplements - to health and life endangerment. such a policy, which clearly divides citizens into better and worse, is not hopeful.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking the shooting associations, collectors, sports shooters, hunters, museums, gun enthusiasts, and the more than 20,000 people who emailed me during my time on the imco committee in defense of freedom, freedom from gun control. the work on this directive reflects all the problems of eu legislation. the commission's proposal was unrealistic from the outset, it did not meet the objectives set. failure to carry out an impact assessment should result in the immediate rejection of the project. the final text is also unacceptable: it creates further difficulties for law-abiding gun owners. instead of building a positive message about guns, we build on negative arguments and distrust of our own citizens who cannot make decisions for themselves and are deprived of the most effective tool for self-defense. it means that the government is afraid of its citizens. the preamble gives the reasons for the directive and the reference to terrorism. but i don't see anything in the rest of the text that concerns terrorists, criminals, illegal arms trade. i see another part of freedom being taken away from law-abiding citizens. ladies and gentlemen! reform of the european union can only take place with the support of citizens and must rely primarily on meeting their expectations. the czech republic has already announced that it will amend its constitution in response to eu law so that every law-abiding citizen has access to guns. this is the way we should go. free access to arms is the only guarantee of our security, the first and absolute anti-terrorist law. our colleague, mr janusz korwin-mikke, concludes most of his speeches in parliament with the phrase 'and besides, i think the european union should be destroyed'. this directive is a very good step in that direction. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. i never wrote to anyone that the european union would take away anyone's weapons. above all, it would take away freedom. and that is what this directive is about, not specific solutions, because specific solutions can be combined at the level of - i don't know - the occupier and the occupied nation, whereas in the european union there will never be any agreement to take away the freedoms of law-abiding citizens.
in writing. i thank everyone involved in the development of a compromise which, while not perfect, is much better than the commission's original proposal. this was due to the work of my colleagues at the ecr, including vicky ford, who i supported from the beginning, including by amending the rules. i appreciate the great involvement of civil society representatives in the drafting of the directive. thank you for your help and advice.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the idea of a circular economy is a very good idea, it has many benefits not only environmental and economic, but also social. unfortunately, as is often the case, the european institutions can screw up the best ideas by setting unrealistic targets. of course, they're good, but only for certain countries. germany, belgium and sweden are very close to achieving this. however, my country, poland, has a long way to go in this area and unfortunately is not covered by any flexibility clause. for example, as regards municipal waste, poland recycled 20% in 2012, germany 64%, austria 59% and the overall target is set at 65%, so poland would have to increase its recycling by 225%, compared to the current level of recycling, by 2030. it's an unrealistic goal. polish society cannot afford to achieve these goals in this timeframe. that's why i can't support this package.
mr. chairman, please! we want economic growth, but we also want a clean environment. we also want to ensure the future of the next generation through sustainable development. circular economy is such a concept. the directives we are voting on today set very ambitious targets, including recycling, and will have a significant impact on the management of waste in europe and in the individual member states, presenting a challenge to local governments on the one hand and an opportunity for economic development on the other, also in areas where significant economic incentives have been lacking. an economy that is resource-efficient and environmentally friendly is not just about recycling, but also about low waste generation. i thank the rapporteur for putting this prevention, the highest level in the waste hierarchy, at the forefront. i regret that the promotion of the economies of the countries which produce the least waste per capita, as i have called for, has not been implemented. i think that would also significantly increase the interest. and one last thing, mr. chairman. i would like to emphasize the introduction of my proposal to treat organic waste not only as compost, but also in the process of gasification, in the anaerobic process with biogas recovery. i think it's a good idea, and so is saving food and producing less waste.
vehicles are a source of automotive parts that are capable of continuous operation and scrap. millions of used cars flow from western europe to the middle east and other member states, where they end their lives. who will bear the social and environmental costs of dismantling and reusing them? the creation of a union market for secondary raw materials is therefore urgent. these raw materials should be classified and standardised. worn-out electrical equipment could be subject to similar procedures. it's hard to pick up and take apart. the provisions imposing this task on the manufacturer do not pass the test. batteries and accumulators are too cheap and their collection is not stimulated properly. the chinese competition in the price of lead is not encouraging this either. electronic waste has not seen the green and energy-efficient processing technologies that are effective, and energy efficiency is, in my view, the engine of the circular economy.
in writing. the european union's objective, resulting from the implementation of the circular economy, is to reduce waste and to improve the efficiency and quality of recycling. to achieve these aims, both efficient waste management and a more rigorous approach to production processes are necessary, avoiding toxic substances that impede the reuse and recycling of these products. therefore, circular economy principles should treat all the steps leading to the final product and its use in a manner that minimises its impact on the environment equally. remember that only a fully functioning circular economy can help to guarantee the european union's lasting competitive advantage and protect businesses from resource scarcity.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of this report on the responsible ownership and care of equidae because i believe that it will help to harmonise the treatment of animals in the various member states and thus solve the problem or at least in some part improve the treatment of these animals. the equine sector in the union has great economic potential, creates jobs and contributes to many sectors: sport, scientific research, medicine and food production. as a result, the high demand for equine animals in recent years has led to an uncontrolled breeding of animals of inferior quality. in many member states there has been a significant increase in the number of cases of equine abandonment and, consequently, an increase in the maltreatment and suffering of equidae. the report contains a package of measures to improve equine welfare and to combat this phenomenon. the recommendations include, inter alia, the issuing of comprehensive guidelines for the care of horses and donkeys and the development of new guidelines for food products produced from these animals. i believe that the recommendations made are extremely important and that the report is an important step towards improving the situation of equidae in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! sir julian king has made it clear that the european commission wants even more gun control than this report suggests, and these proposals are a typical example of the anti-policy of the current eu authorities. the answer to terrorism is to have even more control over our own citizens, and the centers of anti-western hatred only need to be careful, because they are not dangerous until they are radicalized. the council decision to effectively combat organised smuggling of illegal migrants is soon to be two years old has been replaced by purely humanitarian operations, and countries defending europe's borders are being attacked for defending europe's borders. it is not allowed to increase the powers of this power, much less to control our citizens.
mr president, i voted against the amendments on principle. what is the fundamental difference between a free man and a slave? the difference is that a slave is not allowed to possess weapons. he is not allowed to bear weapons. terrorism is a pretext. you are afraid of your own people. you are afraid of the revolt of the slaves. i am not afraid of my people. i am afraid of you. you are the enemy of the people, not the people themselves. so i voted against and, moreover, i think that the european union must be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! a circular economy is a cause worth supporting. and poland is of course in favour of us achieving the best possible results in this area. however, it is also necessary to take into account the current state of play of member states in terms of waste recovery. why is that so important? because everyone should be treated equally, in accordance with the principle of eu solidarity. but it turns out that they are more and more equal in the european union. this document does not note that member states are at different levels of waste treatment. and so i would like to tell you that the target you voted for 70% of municipal waste recycled is very easy to achieve for germany, which according to 2016 data recovered 64% of municipal waste, or for austria, which reached 59%. unfortunately, this target is very difficult to achieve for poland, which is at the level of 20%. the european union should be a level playing field for all. you're breaking that rule again.
i voted against the document because it did not offer any interesting solutions for gender equality. if the european union is to claim to be a world leader in women's rights, then we should be giving women legal aid as part of the implementation of what i said in my speech. similarly, rather than lamenting low pensions, it would be good to introduce solutions that would lead to equal pensions for women and men. article 47 of the document is totally unacceptable, interfering with the doctor's duty to save health and life by limiting the appeal to the conscience clause, according to which the doctor can refrain from performing health services that are not in accordance with his conscience. i would also like to recall the opinion of the renowned cardiologist, dr. fenigsen, who says that even the mental acceptance of killing is a hindrance to medical progress, beyond the reversal of the system of values that are inherent not only in the profession of a doctor, but also in any life-saver.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing a report that is part of a very important agenda for equality in the european union. equality between men and women, and equality between people, is one of the european union's most important values and civilizational achievements, but it is treated differently in different countries. and also, depending on whether it's private or public life, depending on the industry or sector, we have different levels of equality between women and men. certainly in fields such as science and business, the situation is better, but in the labour market, the average wage of women is still lower than that of men, which cannot be tolerated. but what is most important and most difficult is the equality of treatment of women's health and the right to self-determination. this is being violated practically everywhere, and we should continue to work in the european union to eliminate this stereotype and this state of affairs.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. the report on equality between women and men has little to do with the actual idea of equality. it promotes abortion as one of reproductive rights, it interferes with education by implementing a gender perspective at every level, it violates the natural identity of the family by promoting lgbt parenthood, and it also points to the obligation to fight stereotypes, and for stereotypical roles it understands the role of women as wives and mothers. i want to make it very clear that i am in favor of supporting women. let us ensure that women have the opportunity to develop their careers and at the same time be able to fulfil the role of mothers and wives if they so wish. to do that, we don't have to change our gender notions and promote sick ideologies. the facts speak for themselves. according to pwc's women at work 2017 report, poland is the country with the lowest pay gap, at just seven percent. furthermore, the report indicates that if current trends continue, these wage differences will be eliminated by 2021, the fastest among all oecd countries. in my homeland, poland, we are committed to traditional christian values, and as you can see, even though we still have a lot to do, it is not ideological, gender bias, but understanding and adequate support for women that is the driving force for positive change in the situation of women.
while there is undoubtedly a need to implement the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services, and while i fully share the rapporteur's view that there is insufficient protection for women during pregnancy and maternity, i would nevertheless recommend caution in certain cases because of the different sensitivities and feelings associated with gender. this does not mean that separate coaches for women and men should be introduced as a prevention of harassment, because the problems of violence that harassment is part of should be prevented by stimulating personal development, not by separating women from men. violence against women is due to many reasons, including the recommendations of the istanbul convention and freedom without any restrictions, which is equivalent to approving actions against life and family, and i cannot agree to this.
i voted against the report because, at least for the time being, the natural roles of women and men cannot be reversed and even in same-sex relationships there is a difference of roles. so instead of sending women against their will to work for the benefit of men's leave, i would prefer that the billions of euros of funding for equality were not wasted on the introduction of an ideology against women's lives and health, which in fact objectifies women, but that these funds were allocated to help women who are raising children or caring for the elderly. the femm should be first and foremost a women's rights committee, whose natural rights are repeatedly taken away from them in the context of specifically conceived equality. for example, through reports like this, which in addition to telling poland about untrue facts, can be classified as violence against my country, because stigmatization is also a form of psychological violence.
the report, which is of great importance, is very important to us because it deals with, among other things, technologies which are already, and will certainly be in the future, the foundation of development, and not only of economic, economic, but also of civilization. the civilization of the future is a civilization of new technologies, which is why we are putting so much emphasis in europe, in the european union, in individual member states, on building a digital society. but you have to realize that generating a huge amount of data is also a danger, especially a danger to the individual. of course, also for countries, for institutions of a certain type, etc. so we must now prepare standards and procedures in the european union to protect this security. today, in my view, there are no such standards and procedures and the threat to fundamental rights, especially those referred to in article 7, is real. we have an urgent need to guarantee the right to privacy of eu citizens.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the us global gag rule (2017/2599 ((rsp)).
i'm not going to let you do this. questions and suggestions are being asked, so please kindly take them into consideration at your designated time.
the fact is that mr škripek came forward by raising his blue card, but i would ask that this not be a discussion or debate between the members and mr branislav and that we nevertheless recognise that everyone has already benefited from the blue card procedure.
i wanted to talk to you in 't veld. the minister! you wanted to ask a question, but i have a request: one question by raising a blue card to one speaker. so if the speech of one of the speakers makes your question relevant, then ask the next speaker, okay? i'm sorry, but we have to get organized.
if you would like to comment, please, after the debate is over, you can make a personal statement within three minutes. you agree?
mr. chairman, please! president donald trump's suspension of funding for abortion practices around the world is a great example of the unquenchable youth of the american republic, while the attack on the united states that is taking place here is another convulsion of a sick europe. the official title of this debate refers to the death industry's blockade as a "global gaggle". you called america's commitment to the civilization of life, when the socialist authorities in france imposed a drastic censorship that went as far as prison sentences to stifle calls for the protection of the unborn. europe is being destroyed by populism, yes, your populism, the populism of power, the populism that tells the people of europe, "i have no moral rights except your wishes". it's time to face him if europe is to survive.
the question asked by raising the blue card. according to the mep, countries that protect life before birth are obskurances. i would like to ask you, do you think that alcide de gasperi or robert schuman were such obscurants? was obscurantism in europe when these leaders signed the treaties of rome, whose anniversary we will soon celebrate?
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you for this timely discussion – very constructive and very productive. also thank you for your suggestions and questions. i will try to meet your concerns and your worries. first of all, you may be assured that the european commission will remain alert on this issue. we have to remain alert on this issue. but also let me reiterate once again: our action is not dependent on others. and i would like to be clear: our policies are driven by our own priorities and by our own values, not by what others do or stop doing. at the same time, if we see a funding gap in development and humanitarian aid, we look into stepping up our assistance to health and gender-based violence projects, should that be needed. and of course, i count also on your – the european parliament’s – support to reinforce the budgets. my final point, last but not least. some colleagues referred to the need to inform our partner organisations on the ground. as far as i am concerned we have over 200 humanitarian partners on the ground, in the humanitarian and development field, registered in the eu. and they know better what to do on the ground to help women in need. i have witnessed their knowledge and their action in my missions on the ground around the world. on the other hand, our partners work with local implementing organisations. if there is an information gap there, i stand ready to discuss with our partners how best to address this without compromising humanitarian access and the overall safety of the people in need and of the humanitarian workers. this is my promise regarding the formation of our humanitarian partners and, of course, regarding the possible funding gap.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, just a few days ago the european council adopted conclusions on the european union’s priorities in the united nations human rights fora in the current year, 2017. the promotion and protection of human rights is central in our external action. it is consistent with our values, but also with our interest to foster resilience for societies in our region and beyond. i would like to thank the european parliament for its continuing support in this area. the international community asks governments to respect human rights as universal, indivisible, independent and interrelated values. all fundamental freedoms should be universal. i am therefore proud to say that the european union is in the lead on many key debates in the human rights council in the general assembly. looking at the ongoing session of the human rights council, we will run the regular eu resolution on freedom of religion or belief. this is a complex resolution aimed at promoting a universal approach to religion or belief. we also continue to work with the organisation for islamic cooperation to ensure a good relationship with their resolution on defamation of religion. we will also run, with our partners in the latin american and caribbean group, a resolution on the rights of the child. our focus shall be on the implementation of agenda 2030 and the objective of leaving no child behind. let me now refer to the specific situation in some countries. the conflict in syria remains the most serious humanitarian crisis facing the world. the european council has stated several times that the situation in syria should be referred to the international criminal court, calling on the un security council to take action. with regard to the situation in ukraine, we are accompanying the government’s reform agenda. at the same time, we continue to focus on the reports by the office of the high commission for the human rights monitoring mission, as well as the grave situation in the illegally-annexed crimea peninsula. now on the democratic republic of north korea. we will co-present with japan a strong resolution calling for accountability and extending the mandate of the special rapporteur. the resolution will also reflect developments such as the un security council meeting in december, the well-supported unga resolution and the new report from the group of experts on accountability. on myanmar, the goal of our resolution remains stopping the ongoing violations of human rights in several regions of the country, in particular against persons belonging to the rohingya population in rakhine state. in light of the high rate of application of the death penalty in iran, and with an eye to improving the human rights situation in the country, we will support the extension of the mandate of the special representative. allow me one final word on migration. we all know how delicate this issue is and how exposed to abuses these men, women and children can be on their long and dangerous journeys. for this reason, we are working with the un high commissioner for refugees and with the international organisation for migration to improve the living conditions of migrants and refugees all along the routes. no other power is as engaged as we are in the protection of the rights of migrants. thank you for your attention, and i look forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. the human rights situation in the world, which we've been talking about in this room for a long time, is alarming. especially in open areas, but also in areas of frozen armed conflict, including our immediate, eastern and mediterranean neighbours. this was also confirmed by the european parliament's annual report on human rights in the world, which we adopted last december. repression is intensifying under various regimes and i am deeply concerned about the deteriorating situation of civil society in many places, including the media, as a result of the adoption of solutions that are also stigmatizing, such as talking about them as alleged external or foreign agents. many human rights activists, including journalists, bloggers, representatives of ngos, are deprived of their liberty or subjected to various forms of repression. this also applies to human rights defenders who have been awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament. it is particularly noteworthy that the resolution highlights the difficult situation regarding freedom of religion and belief. and not for the first time: the middle east, north africa, some asian countries as well. we support the work of the european union special envoy for freedom of religion or belief, mr jan figel. we also support the un human rights council's permanent rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, ahmed shaheed. christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world today. the middle east and africa are experiencing particularly dramatic situations. we must do everything we can to stop this exodus of christians and of people of other religions. the world must learn from these atrocities, and the need for justice and reconciliation cannot be replaced by the logic of revenge. the resolution supports the work of the international criminal court. we call again here - thank you for this declaration, commissioner - on the efforts at the un to punish these crimes, which are genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. the issue of persons with disabilities will also be discussed during the current session of the human rights council. this is an important issue which parliament must address on a larger scale. we have joined the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights in this priority issue. the delegation will be in geneva on 21 march, which is down's syndrome day. there'll be young people there who are sick of it. the human rights council session is also a time for bilateral contacts, including with special envoys and rapporteurs dealing with problem areas or countries. we also continue our support for the abolition of the death penalty. we also want ukraine and the situation in that neighbouring country to be settled, the humanitarian situation in donbas to be improved, the 1.5 million internally displaced people to be given the status of people who can live with dignity.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to take part in this debate and stress that my country, poland, is interested in the introduction at eu level of solutions to establish a tax base for corporation tax on the basis of uniform rules. we have had a hard time in previous years with operations carried out, among others, by luxembourg, which allowed tax optimisation by various large companies also operating in poland. the losses were estimated by experts at eur 11 billion per year, thus significantly exceeding the annual cit tax revenue to the polish budget. in this context, we support the commission's efforts to introduce rules at eu level to establish the tax base for corporation tax, so that the same rules apply for the eligibility of expenditure that can be included in the cost of generating revenue. the ultimate aim is that corporate income taxes are paid in those countries where the actual economic activity takes place and where economic value is created.
mr. chairman, please! i am pleased that the report on the 2018 budgetary guidelines focuses heavily on small and medium-sized enterprises as a key driver of employment growth and development. smes are the main source of new jobs and therefore need access to finance. i would also like to draw attention to the need to improve access to know-how on how to obtain funding, particularly under the european fund for strategic investments with the european structural and investment funds. the european commission, knowing that we have little money, should analyse projects that have received funding so far, in order to be able to assess the rationale for the next potential beneficiaries applying for funding.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, we are not asking for any more money. the reservation of mrs von storch, who cannot be here any longer, is simply wrong. we have a budget, we have a ceiling, we stick to it. we will do everything we can to meet the challenges within the budgetary limits set by the council and parliament for 2018. in general, i think you could all take a little more pride in looking at the efficiency of european budgets. the average rate of government in europe is 50%. of every 100 euros earned by a european citizen - by manual labour, by mental labour, by investments - 50 euros go into public hands. in some countries, it is as high as 57%, in others only 45%, with an average of 50%. so for every 50 euros we take from the citizen for a gross of 100 euros, one euro goes to the european treasury and 49 euros remain in berlin or madrid, in düsseldorf or barcelona or in municipalities or in public health systems. we'll take care of the 50 euro. with this one euro, we can do a lot of things right. i'm not saying we're doing everything right. that is why the discharge debate is necessary, and the commission is also capable of self-criticism. the error rate has been reduced considerably year by year in recent years and i look forward to the debate on discharge in a few days' time in this house. we had a very good, substantive debate in the committee on budgetary control. we have achieved discharge in the council and we want to make a good case here for discharge in 2015 in the european parliament. the 2018 budget is not about brexit, no matter how and when the negotiations start and when they end. the whole of the financial year 2018 our member state, the united kingdom, is a full member with all rights and obligations. this means that it is the eu-28. we also know that in the next post-2020 budgetary framework, the british are very unlikely to be in it. this is why the commission's white paper is called the eu27. and that is why, of course, in the context of what we have to work out as the commission, we will concentrate on 27 member states in terms of revenue and expenditure in the next budgetary framework. and yet there are obligations that follow. it's like any normal relationship. there may be further obligations after the separation. that's what we call "divorce kids" in the family, and that's what we call "commitments" here. if we make commitments now that will continue beyond 2020, when the children are not adults, then we can expect our british friends to meet the subsequent commitments, which are getting smaller every year. in the field of research, the uk research institutes and industrial companies which are currently participating in joint ventures, public-private partnerships and important projects of common european interest and which are already receiving a significant amount of funding from horizon 2020 will continue to receive funding in the future. that is why we need a sensible solution here, which we will discuss in the coming months as part of the divorce negotiations. the idea of defence becoming a european issue has been criticised. if you know how inefficient 28 member states are in their defence research, how many types of weapons we have, how little standardisation we have, then you know that europe is not well placed in this area. the americans - our partners in nato - get many times more for a dollar than we get for a euro or a pound at the moment. the european council therefore agreed to ask the commission to draw up a proposal on defence research and joint projects which we will also present to this house before the middle of the year. we'll start with defense research with first projects. it doesn't make sense that you develop the use of drones for defense 28 times, 28 times research. the smallest child knows that the size of the company can be much better managed in partnership, cooperation and harmonization for such complex projects. we must not finance defence projects at the expense of social policy. that is what we are going to be looking at. we do not want to cut back on our important social spending and programmes, on combating youth unemployment, to finance defence projects. that would be unfair to the young population and to the socially vulnerable citizens of europe. but it still makes sense. and that is why supplementary funds will have to be provided by the member states where necessary, because these tasks and expenditure can be financed more efficiently and therefore at a lower cost to the taxpayer in a european team, coordinated at european level. the subject of own resources was mentioned. this too has nothing to do with the 2018 budget, but the report of the group led by mr monti will be discussed with you in the next budgetary framework in 2021. what are we thinking? when the european community was founded, customs revenue was a major concern. with each enlargement of the european union, customs revenue decreases. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market. with each trade agreement, customs revenue decreases. and that we now finance 70% or more of our revenue through contributions and that customs duties have fallen to 10% and that another 10% is the vat share is basically a slippery slope. we do not want more revenue, we want a broadening of the revenue base, a diversification. and that is the purpose of the monti report, which we are discussing openly in the commission and with you. there are some clever ideas on how to better link the issue of the ets, carbon allowances and payments for them, or other european policies, to the revenue sector of the european budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the efforts he has made to obtain a large majority here. the commission's report is an important basis for our draft budget, which we will draw up in the spring and which we will then be able to discuss together during the year.
in writing. in the context of the 2018 budgetary guidelines, i draw attention to the need to increase funding for research and innovation and for the erasmus+ programme. as regards research and innovation, the low success rate of projects applying for funding under horizon 2020 means that many good quality projects are rejected. increased funding is therefore essential to further develop european innovation policy and to strengthen the eu's competitiveness and innovation. i am also sorry to note that the reallocation of h2020 funds to support efsi projects has brought marginal benefits to the cultural and education sectors and to public higher education. the erasmus+ programme also faces the problem of a low success rate. here too, an increase in the budget would be necessary, as was initially announced by the european commission. in addition, it is very worrying that the commission is planning to finance other projects, including the european solidarity corps, from the erasmus+ budget. this approach will lead to a further reduction in the funds allocated to erasmus+. in order to ensure that limited financial resources do not discourage potential beneficiaries from participating in erasmus+, i also encourage the commission to highlight projects rejected for lack of funds in order to help them attract investment from other sources.
member of the commission. – madam president, the world is facing the largest humanitarian crisis in the history of the united nations. the european commission is deeply concerned by the humanitarian crises in north-east nigeria, somalia, south sudan and yemen. twenty million people in these countries are at risk of starvation and famine in the coming four months. the international community should step up its support now. tomorrow will, unfortunately, be too late. let me briefly refer to the situation in each of these four countries and then inform you as to how the european union is helping the people in need in their countries. i would like to start with yemen. the situation is dire. almost 19 million people – yes, this is the figure – are in need of immediate humanitarian assistance. this is the largest food insecurity emergency in the world: 7.3 million people are at risk of famine over the next four months. the truth is this: the intensification of fighting is making the humanitarian situation even worse. what we are witnessing is an appalling disregard for protection of civilians and international humanitarian law. if fighting reaches hodeidah port, which is the main entry point for food imports into the country, there will be dramatic humanitarian consequences. second, there is the lake chad crisis, which includes north-east nigeria. the situation in north-east nigeria is of great concern owing to boko haram’s activities. i witnessed this myself when i visited the country, especially the area of yola town, at that time. but the worry is even bigger right now because of the combination of extremism and instability with climate change and population growth. over five million people need emergency food assistance in north-east nigeria alone. thirdly, south sudan. this is the very definition of a ‘man-made crisis’. it is a shame. three years of conflict have had catastrophic consequences. the united nations declared a localised famine in february. hundreds of thousands of people are at risk of dying. these figures could further increase if they do not receive urgent assistance. this is unfortunately the situation on the ground. the european union is a leading donor in south sudan. however, the parties to the conflict, including government troops, are stopping the delivery of assistance even in areas hit by famine. unfortunately, this is the tragic reality for millions of citizens. i saw it with my own eyes when i visited south sudan, but also during my recent visit to uganda, which is hosting thousands of south sudanese refugees. there is no more time for empty promises. the international community has to take a stronger, more outspoken and principled stance on this. fourthly, somalia. the situation is desperate. half the population – over six million people – are now facing acute food insecurity and hunger. three million people need urgent life-saving assistance. this is three times more than it was six months ago, and even more than at the time of my visit to mogadishu at the beginning of last year. the expected weather conditions can only make this worse. dear colleagues, this is the situation in these four areas on the ground. as the european union, we are fully committed to doing our best to help, as we did last year when we adopted a package of eur 540 million to help address the el niño effects in africa. the european union has already taken immediate steps to address the most urgent needs. we stepped up our humanitarian funding in all these countries last year, in 2016, with almost eur 345 million. we have already allocated eur 200 million in the first two months of this year. i was in oslo two or three weeks ago and i pledged, on behalf of the european union, eur 105 million in humanitarian assistance for north-east nigeria and the lake chad region. also, last month we stepped up our assistance to south sudan to eur 82 million, and we provided a first package of eur 10 million of emergency assistance to somalia. this is an initial allocation. we are currently mobilising all our funding possibilities to step up our response. you will receive, probably today, the commission proposals for a new emergency package, in particular for the horn of africa and yemen. we count on your quick adoption. at the same time, the commission is finalising a new significant package for north-east nigeria, linking relief, rehabilitation and development. this, as you know, has to be matched by other donors, because the needs are huge. every hour that passes is crucial. thousands of lives are at stake. i am sorry for this very bad picture, but this is the situation on the ground.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. six years later, we have another dramatic situation in the horn of africa, but this time it could be the biggest humanitarian crisis on the continent in decades, and this time it's much more difficult because the crisis in the famine-stricken countries is man-made. 20 million people in yemen, south sudan, somalia and nigeria are at risk of starvation. prolonged conflict has led to food shortages, rising food prices, forced displacement, and the difficulty for humanitarian convoys to reach those in need. in the last famine in the horn of africa, 250,000 people died, half of them children under the age of five. a famine means that at least 30% of the children in a country are severely and acutely malnourished, and the mortality rate among the population is enormous. as early as february, the un declared a famine in the northern part of south sudan because humanitarian aid was cut off. now it's a nationwide problem, and the only reason it's happening is because of an internal political dispute that has escalated into a violent conflict. the figures you have mentioned are that 7.5 million people in sudan need immediate help and there is a cholera epidemic in the country. in yemen, two-thirds of the population suffer from food insecurity because the fighting continues. in the northeast of nigeria, where 80 percent of the population was dependent on agriculture and cattle breeding, boko haram militants forced many people to flee their homes and destroyed livelihoods in rural areas. as for somalia, january to march is a dry season, whereas previous seasons were poor in rainfall, crops were destroyed, and water reserves were depleted. in addition, the terrorist activities of the al-shabaab group have been carried out in the southern and central parts of somalia that are under its control, effectively destabilising the country. the fact that the european commission decided in february to provide 82 million in aid for the famine in south sudan, and the statements made by the commissioner today, are welcome proof of the union's rapid response to the international community's appeals. however, un under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs stephen o'brian said that some $4.5 billion is needed to implement the un's plan of action. it's a huge amount, but i hope we can make a collective and coordinated global effort to prevent the tragic consequences of one of the greatest crises in recent african history, which could claim 20 million lives.
madam president, i would like to offer my congratulations to madam vice-president. congratulations also to patrizia and to all the shadow rapporteurs. it is a very good result, and also a very large majority in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre). it shows our strong support for the commission proposal, even though we also introduced crucial amendments. we gave flexibility to member states, up to two years, to postpone assignment of the relevant part of the spectrum, and we also made sure that broadcasting operators have investment certainty until the year 2030 using under-700 mhz frequency. to bridge the digital divide in europe, to offer higher speed and higher quality broadband to consumers, and ultimately the 5g revolution – these are a huge step forward, but some issues before us are very important. we should not forget about that – the timing of auctions, licence duration, spectrum trading, greater eu coordination of spectrum assignments are all very important. they are all addressed in the telecom framework. i can assure you, dear colleagues, and also the representative of the european commission, that in itre committee we will do everything to make sure that all our regulations will help our industry, our smes and, first of all, our citizens, so we are prepared for hard work. mr vice-president, dear colleagues, once again, thank you for the regulation.
madam president, my congratulations to ms toia, the rapporteur, for the excellent work. this proposal needs to be put into the right context. it is not purely a matter of allocating spectrum. this is about ensuring that europe has the potential to lead the expansion of 5g and to attract investments in this new economy. with the rapid expansion of 5g, which will need spectrum in the lower parts, such as the 700 mhz frequency band, europe holds the potential for transforming into the world’s most dynamic market. 5g is crucial for the internet of things, virtual reality development – key for the new educational tools. it is basic for car-connected development and the paradigm shift in the healthcare area. the use of 700mhz frequencies has to be considered in the light of this rapid technological game-changer. the broad implementation of 700 mhz is meant to be as coordinated and harmonised as possible, in order to pave the way for 5g. timely and harmonised decisions are necessary. it is the obligation of all of us, and above all, of all member states. making available the 700 mhz band – starting with using giga frequencies (from 1 to 26/28 in the first stage) – in a timely manner, is a cornerstone of delivering on european digital agenda targets, particularly to sparsely populated and remote areas in europe. i am from poland. there are some challenges related to cross-border interferences of radio signals from ukraine, belarus and russia. working on this portfolio, we wanted to have this scheme for justified reasons in view of potential delays in the implementation of the solution for 2022. we will do our best, but we can avoid these delays if we act together – the polish authorities, with the support of the european institutions – during negotiations.
mr. chairman, please! it will not surprise anyone to say that the last european union summit will be remembered - with all due respect for all its conclusions - above all because donald tusk's mandate as president of the european council has been extended. for this reason, it was also observed with great interest in many countries and the decision was welcomed with great relief. not only because he is polish and because it happened in very, very special circumstances, but because stability, continuity, the possibility of using the experience already gained in running the european council, and these are the values in today's european union amid many unknowns, many question marks, have won. one of these question marks is answered by the netherlands today. i am happy to say that when i landed in poland after the brussels summit, i saw really happy poles, and some of the signs of joy in tusk's hometown of gdańsk reminded me of those moments when robert lewandowski scored a goal for the polish national team, because he doesn't just score for bayern munich and he doesn't always do that. what does that mean? this means that donald tusk as the head of the european council has the support not only of 27 countries, but also of the vast majority of poles, as the polls show. poland is a normal country. as for the conclusions of the european council, they certainly reflect the challenges of today, but we all know that the future of the european union will be decided in the near future, namely by the electoral calendar of 2017, and that these decisions will be more important than some documents of the council or the european commission. national elections, but with europe in the background; a shared responsibility to convince europeans that the answer to their fears, to their need for security, must be european.
mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council! i think what we need today is a little bit of reflection without emotion. if the president of one of the countries, now a member of the european parliament, said a moment ago that the union might not live to see its 70th anniversary, he is not alone in this view. that would be wrong. the question is whether the current structure of decision-making in the european union is the right one. because if on strategic issues - such as energy policy, climate policy, immigration policy, and also personnel matters - we do not go back to what has been, what has guaranteed the success of european structures for years, to acting on the basis of consensus, and we vote for each other by a temporary majority, a temporary minority, then i think we will not succeed as a union.
in writing. the approaching 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome (25 march 1957) is a good time to reflect on the future of europe. the european union and its member states are facing unprecedented challenges: brexit, the refugee crisis, the slowdown following the financial crisis, the demographic crisis, the lack of a competitive and well-functioning internal market, and above all the rapid growth of nationalist movements and the strength of political parties that question the continued existence of the european union. both the conclusions of the european council and the rome declaration currently being drawn up are intended to show the way to resolving some of these problems. these documents clearly indicate the possibility of varying the pace of integration and of closer cooperation between groups of countries in certain areas. it is important, however, that some flexibility be possible only within the framework of the existing treaties. at the same time, the so-called two-speed union cannot exclude any country which might later wish to join such cooperation. i am afraid that a multi-speed union may lead to the complete marginalisation of some countries with little positive impact on the community as a whole. the union of divisions and segregation of states for better or worse has never produced positive results, and i believe that instead of a multi-speed union, the union will develop with the support and participation of all its member states.
in writing. first of all, i would like to warmly congratulate mr donald tusk on the extension of his mandate as president of the european council for a second two-and-a-half-year term. the support it has received indicates a clear positive assessment of its performance so far, despite some bizarre attempts to undermine this achievement. but right now, we need to focus on the problems that we have ahead of us. the council welcomed the foreign affairs council conclusions of 6 march, which represent a positive step towards strengthening defence cooperation. a concept note was adopted on the establishment of a union military operations command, which will help to better coordinate the actions of eu countries within the csdp. it also called for the creation of pesco, or permanent structured cooperation, which would be a platform for joint planning and military action by eu countries. work has also started on the creation of a coordinated annual review of defence capabilities, which will help to better identify gaps in the capabilities of eu armed forces and plan to close them. these actions are almost milestones compared to the state of defense cooperation a few years ago. finally, we have something to talk about in this realm. it is also important that the economic and commercial value of the defence industry has finally been recognised. i would also like to express my concern about the situation in the western balkans. i hope that the effort to bring the balkans closer to the eu will not be wasted.
mr. chairman, please! a year ago, on that tragic holy tuesday, many of us had the feeling that war had begun, and we were right, because it was a sign that there was a war in europe. it wasn't an incident. but in order to keep our citizens safe in these conditions, we need to be aware of what's really going on. but we often hear, even in our debate, the euphemism "radicalization". what exactly is radicalization? this is the transition of a committed jihadist from intent, from hatred of the west to terrorist action. we really have to respond very early. in the case of people who are not our citizens, any manifestation of hatred towards the society in which they live should be a reason for such people - and also those who support them - not to remain in our society. only by creating such a clear requirement will we create isolation for these people and also guarantee their communities the possibility of living in peace.
mr president, we need to remember all the victims of the terrorist attacks and we have to counteract. the key dimension of the security strategy is prevention. we can prevent only by working together and exchanging information on time. for this, the will of the member states and law enforcement officers is crucial, the will to share information on demand, but also on their own initiative, information that might be needed somewhere else. it requires technological common capacity and interoperability – not fragmentation related to the different countries’ systems. a model of obligatory sharing of information among law enforcement [bodies] in real time, with coordination at the european level, is necessary. more sharing of data is useful. maybe we should think of a single holistic framework that would make it possible to share information more efficiently and much faster. a new architecture for data exchange systems is necessary. it is key to find financial resources, european and national, for this purpose. we do not need to collect more data, but to make sure that the data are used more efficiently, that the police officer in the field will get the information when it is necessary and will be able to use it.
madam president! most eu citizens consider security to be one of the most important attributes of the eu. the sense of security has been seriously shaken by the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels. the commissioner responsible for the security agenda said last year that terrorists do not attack a specific member state, but their attacks are aimed at our way of life. this is partly true, because the belgian state, whose officials are involved in the fight against terrorism, was also the target of the attacks in brussels. any country that takes up the fight against terrorism must take this danger into account. i think the regulations on passenger data are going in the right direction. however, the firearms directive is questionable, as it appears to target gun collectors and sport shooters rather than terrorists.
in writing. the attacks in brussels last year sadly confirmed the fact that terrorists are effective and increasingly ruthless. they also confirmed that belgium is the country of origin of many terrorists in europe who return to belgium and have logistical bases there. the belgian authorities, as well as the european union, have taken a number of initiatives to counter the terrorist threat. it is worth recalling that eu citizens are now checked against databases every time they cross the union's border. the european counter-terrorism centre, based in the hague at europol's headquarters, has also been operational for a few months. the rules on terrorist financing have also been tightened. the services in the member states are more efficient in removing various publications, including websites calling for attacks. these are just a few examples of the wide range of counterterrorism activities. in my opinion, the key issue today is to evaluate the effectiveness of the actions taken in the last year to counter the terrorist threat. if new instruments are not effective enough, new ones should be considered. terrorists must be made aware that the eu and individual states will fight them in a determined way.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr winkler, and all the members and shadow rapporteurs of the committee on international trade and everybody involved in this. it has been a long work. we passed many hours together in trilogues, etc., but it has been worth it. today we have a proposal that i hope you will endorse with a big majority tomorrow morning. we have an ambitious and a workable instrument to eliminate conflict minerals from supply chains. it will contribute to addressing the challenges of conflict linked to natural resources, hardship of entire communities and human rights abuses that have for too long accompanied this kind of trade. i am convinced that trade must be based on values, and the conflict mineral regulation is a key element in that approach. the global market-based trade in raw materials can provide a vital source of a stable income to the people and countries who need it the most, but that development needs to be sustainable. therefore, transparent and responsible supply chains means revenues would not go into the hands of rebel groups but to investment in schools, in hospitals, supporting a well governed state underpinned by the rule of law. it can mean improving people’s lives from conflict and terror to opportunity and hope. it means encouraging the economic growth that helps the poorest regions grow sustainably. in short, this means doing what trade does best – not contributing to war and instability but delivering sustainable jobs and real opportunities. the most obvious example of the conflict linked to minerals is around the great lakes of africa. millions have been killed, millions more injured since the first congo war broke out some 20 years ago, but it is certainly not the only example, so that is why this regulation takes a global approach. the united nations, the g-8, honourable members of this house have called for an integrated approach combining trade, development and other policies. that is good. we need to use all the tools we have. and we have responded to your call. we have worked across the commission services with the external action service, basing ourselves on the work done by the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) as the main actor in this field, and the regulation you will vote on tomorrow is just one of the components of our action, and i would like to remind you of some of the others. we are fully on track with the eur 20 million development aid package announced in 2015, and this will include financial support via the oecd secretariat, helping the responsible production of gold, peace-building and stabilisation in central and west africa. it will help assistance and training for those on the ground; it will help vulnerable women and children affected by the conflict; it will be a support for the international conference for the great lakes region and a dutch-led private-public european partnership for responsible minerals. it will help eu small and medium-sized and micro-enterprises to understand their due diligence on conflict minerals and, picking up on the very important suggestion by this house, we will also have the oecd due diligence guidance translated into all the eu official languages. we are also reaching out to other governments to encourage them to source responsibly – this month to china and india, last month to the united arab emirates and many african countries including burkina faso, democratic republic of congo, ghana, guinea, ivory coast, nigeria, south africa, uganda, zambia and the african union. this is what i mean by shaping globalisation. unfortunately, some of the vibes we are picking up from washington on this matter are not encouraging. we do not know yet for certain the approach by the new us administration, but this should certainly not alter our results. on the contrary, it underlines all the more the importance of european leadership here. so thank you very much madam president, thank you again mr winkler for your leadership on this, and thank you for your attention.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. i too would like to congratulate the whole team which negotiated this agreement on behalf of the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr winkler. after long and difficult discussions, we have managed to reach an agreement which is a great success for all three eu institutions. as rapporteur for the committee on development, i believe that this regulation is the basis for an effective tool to break the link between conflict, human rights violations and our use of everyday goods. the interests of the community, the people whose lives are being destroyed by war and conflict, must be our priority. the regulation will make due diligence verification in line with oecd guidelines mandatory for importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores from conflict and high risk areas. the rapporteur has already spoken of solutions for small and mediumsized enterprises, but i think that supporting measures for small and mediumsized enterprises, political dialogue with the countries where mining takes place and diplomacy on raw materials and their exploitation are also important.
author. – madam president, for the committee on constitutional affairs of the european parliament the revision of the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations is indeed a matter of urgency. you probably know that a year ago the presidents of three european political parties – the european people’s party, the party of european socialists and the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe – asked the commission in a letter to present a legislative proposal amending this regulation. since the beginning of this year, this regulation is now fully applicable. the presidents requested the commission to examine and initiate a review of the regulation on three substantial provisions related to efficiency, credibility and legitimacy. those are the reduction to 7.5% of the 15% co—financing obligation, the increase of the minimum representation in the european parliament to three members to qualify for receiving public funding, and the prevention of cross—party membership. in the reply the president of the commission, though giving preference to first gathering some experience on the implementation of the regulation, also stated that the commission was open to discussing the issues raised by the three co-signatories representing the main existing european political parties. in the meantime, parliament’s secretary—general also presented the report to the bureau of the parliament. we proposed three amendments, but there are many more issues that require reflection, for example the possibility of limiting contributions in kind, allowing for the possibility to finance referendum campaigns or to provide for an assessment of the financial capacity of the parties before any application for funding, to mention just a few. after intense discussions, my committee, the committee on constitutional affairs, decided to present this oral question in order to raise awareness of this important issue. let me say that we see that the new regulation ensures greater transparency and accountability of european political parties. however, there are shortcomings that need to be addressed. let us be clear about one thing: this oral question is not about asking for more money, but for the money to be spent efficiently, correctly and with respect for the values of the european union. this is not about banning parties with critical opinions on the union. we believe in democracy, and in a democratic system every person is entitled to freedom of speech and opinion. however, those who do not respect european values as they are stated in article 2 of the treaty on european union, and engage in clear racist, undemocratic and discriminatory actions and behaviour, should not fund their actions with european funds. we may understand the commission’s reluctance to initiate a revision of a regulation whose implementation has just started. however, i would also like to remind the commission that, on a number of occasions, it stated very clearly that incentives for speculative behaviour should under no circumstances be granted. in our view it is becoming more and more evident from cases brought to our attention by the press that abuses with, and also misuse of, european funds are happening far too often. the shortcomings that have been signalled in the oral question should be swiftly addressed, in our view, in order to guarantee that the highest standards of probity are respected. we should indeed reflect whether one—man parties really contribute to forming european political awareness and expressing the political will of citizens of the union. but, besides elections, referenda are also an important instrument to express the will of the population in a democratic, organised and well—informed way. the current regulation prohibits any funding linked to referendums. it makes it impossible for parties and foundations to take positions in public on issues of fundamental importance for the future of citizens. this is in clear contradiction with the european parliament’s position expressed in its resolution of 6 april 2011 on the european political parties’ participation in referendum campaigns when the referendums concerned are directly linked to issues relating to the european union. we could reflect whether it would not be advisable to allow funding referendum campaigns on issues relating to the european union where political parties can help form european political awareness. we would therefore like to hear from the commission about its intentions, and we also urge it to react quickly to our request if this possible revision is to be, preferably, adopted before the next european elections in 2019. this regulation falls under the codecision procedure, so i would also like to ask the commission whether it could inform parliament on any exchanges it has undertaken with the council in order to evaluate the openness of the other co—legislator towards this possible revision. i regret that we cannot ask the council this question directly.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i also welcome the fact that the rules on the funding of political parties and european foundations will be reviewed. i would like to see this review based on proper, sound criteria. in short, we have the right, and even the duty, to fight pathology, but under the pretext of fighting pathology, we must not violate the freedom of political parties and their independence. if there are facts of corruption, they should be revealed, if there are facts of fictitious european parties, they should be revealed, and we should think about how to counter this. but the whole of the regulation should be conducive to freedom and political pluralism, and parties with a positive mission, operating without fault, without pathology, should enjoy unfettered freedom and support from the european institutions. fighting the pathology, yes, but protecting freedom.
the question asked by raising the blue card. do you realize that when you talk about our money, the money that you give to someone or possibly this house, you are talking about our citizens' money? it's their money, it's not your money. it is the money of all europeans who have very different views, and you should take care of their freedom, that they can exercise those views in accordance with their convictions.
madam president! i have the impression that mr guerrero salom does not know my party at all, does not know anything about its views, and has expressed very categorical opinions about it. i would ask that you respond to this kind of manifestation of prejudice.
in writing. the revision of the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and foundations, proposed by the three largest european political groups, seems to be justified in every way. the aim is to ensure greater transparency and accountability of european political parties. this money should be spent efficiently and in accordance with the values of the union, in accordance with article 2 of the treaty on european union. recently exposed cases of abuse and even fraud have become all too common. and while these practices are practiced by a few, they undermine voters' trust in all politicians. i hope that the planned review of the rules on the financing of political parties and european foundations will be completed quickly and will be carried out on the basis of sound criteria, drawing on all the experience gained so far.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union has the right to think about its own defence efforts, provided that it bases them on good, sound principles. firstly, there is real solidarity. mr danjean spoke of the loneliness of the french in mali, but real solidarity means solidarity in all directions: the french, the spanish and the italians will also regard the protection of the baltic states as their own, they will support ukraine, they will regard the security of central and eastern europe as their own issue, as a matter of their own security. secondly, there is responsibility, i.e. the respect by states of the 2% of gdp criterion for defence spending. only a few european countries have done so, and i am very surprised that some are in favour of a common defence policy and at the same time against increasing spending. finally, the third point: these efforts must complement the north atlantic alliance, not confront it. if the report were to meet these criteria, i would be in favour of it; because it does not express them, i cannot support it.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on an interesting report which is very ambitious in some respects, and it remains to be seen whether it will be implemented in the future. i think the part of the report that is particularly important is the part that is very clear about money. the european union has a long history of supporting the military, and it is not surprising that the european union has been able to do so in recent years. so the 2% of gdp budget of each member state, multiplied here several times, is, in my opinion, the basis. we should do everything we can to make sure that the individual eu countries really do significantly increase their defence spending. only four eu countries account for 2% of gdp, a very small minority. without money, it's hard to build up defense capability in the future. this report puts forward a very interesting figure that if we really manage to increase defence spending in the future, we could get up to 100 billion euros, which is an admirable amount that if it were invested in the european defence industry, if it were invested in joint research, i think it would have a significant multiplier effect not only in terms of greater defence capability, but also in terms of creating new jobs, strengthening european businesses, and of course military research always has positive outcomes for the civilian population and has other positive benefits. i agree with the thesis that has been made here, that cooperation with nato is necessary. the report, which i commend, makes it clear that the strategic partnership between the eu and nato must be balanced and extended. i think that's incredibly important because any component we build has to be compatible with nato, not competitive.
mr. chairman, please! i think we can all agree that the authors of the report rightly point to the need to strengthen europe's capacity to provide security both within and beyond the european union. but - as has been discussed in this room - it is crucial to increase national defence spending to 2% of gdp. and this is the minimum that we know not all member states are prepared to meet. and the second important postulate, the most important one, is to strengthen, not weaken, nato. and i don't know, i'm not sure that all the proposals in this bill are designed to strengthen nato, not weaken it. the authors rightly advocate the development of defence cooperation between member states, but it seems that a far-reaching europeanisation of defence policy is not the right way to increase the security of member states. instead, we must consolidate our partnership with nato and strengthen our transatlantic relations, without being guided by the mood of the moment (which this report seems to be succumbing to) or by the anti-american sentiment that exists in many of the societies of the member states.
mr. chairman, please! there is a simple principle we should follow: the principle of 'as much' as many common institutions and competences as common values and interests. institutions should be created to reinforce policies, to make them more effective, not to replace policies. institutions without people to make decisions, will not make any policies, will not achieve anything. it was during the time when central europe was under soviet domination that power always had one recipe: give us more power, the problems will be solved. we've had a couple of major trials in the last time, in the last decade: the russian invasion of georgia, the war in ukraine, the wave of immigration, which also had a security dimension because of the illegal immigration industry. generally speaking, we've been weak, so let's really strengthen the policy, and then we'll think about institution building. and for starters, the government of the federal republic should stop the construction of nord stream 2.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 16 march 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the own-initiative report of mr urmas paet, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, and mrs sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on an integrated european union policy for the arctic (2016/2228 (ini)) (a8-0032/2017).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries. – mr president, one of the key points for the fisheries committee in giving an opinion on this important topic was to advocate that any further development of commercial fisheries in the arctic region must take place in compliance with international agreements relating to this area. the right to fish, in fact the right to equal access to natural resources of the archipelago of spitsbergen, is guaranteed by a non-discrimination clause of the spitsbergen treaty which was signed by all major european countries. unfortunately, we are witnessing unjustified and gradual appropriation of fish resources in the area and preferential treatment of norway, which is not respecting the provisions of international agreements. this leads european fishermen to bankruptcy, as well as allowing norway to disregard and disrespect the european union as a partner. we cannot accept this. therefore, it is imperative that we fully address this issue in this report. in this context, i have tabled an amendment and i ask colleagues to support it.
madam president, there are polish interests in the arctic and therefore i express my disapproval of a drilling ban as well as the concept of selective engagement with russia. why, after a negative experience in the eastern neighbourhood and in syria, after military steps taken in the arctic by russia, should we expect peaceful cooperation there?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i congratulate charles tannock and share his assessment, in particular concerning the euro—atlantic integration and internal security. i would like to stress the necessity to make the positive processes in place more inclusive and also engage heavily in combating corruption. not all signs of fatigue that are visible in montenegro are due to russia’s influence.
in writing. the development of new information and communication technologies (ict) is bringing about profound changes in modern society. we are now witnessing a huge technological revolution, driven by the internet and its social interactions. this has required the use of digital communication tools to create a new way of discussion and public participation in public affairs. this project aims to strengthen the relationship between citizens and public institutions by introducing facilitation through online tools. in view of the rather unfavourable image of public administration among the citizens, some facilities are being introduced, which we can already observe today. today, we can do most of our official business from the comfort of our homes, and with the limitless possibilities of the internet, we can enrich our civic consciousness. i therefore believe that there is a great potential in the resolution to use the internet in a positive way. with these tools, we can make the daily lives of citizens easier and create awareness and real impact on the political life of each of us.
madam president, the eu framework for the collection and management of fisheries data has been in place since the year 2000. under this framework, the member states collect, manage and make available a wide range of biological, environmental, technical and social economic data on fishing, aquaculture and processing sectors needed for scientific advice. the agreement we are discussing today includes an improved framework for gathering extensive and reliable information, and making it available at regional and european level. the improvement in data collection will enable the maximum sustainable yield to be evaluated more reliably and ensure long-term sustainability, as laid down in the basic regulation. the regulation will also update and simplify the current rules on data collection to take into account the new cfp reform, achieving maximum sustainable yield and lending obligation. the new rules will ensure that all the relevant data is collected following a cost-benefit approach and without duplication of effort, thus reducing the administrative burden. i am, therefore, in favour of this report.
madam president! harmonisation of union rules governing the collection of all data relating to the fisheries, aquaculture and processing sectors is essential for the implementation of the common fisheries policy, allowing it to be based on the best possible scientific advice. however, i am seriously concerned, and even irritated, that the problem of data on industrial fisheries, or forage fisheries, in the baltic sea has been treated very marginally, if at all. the baltic is a relatively shallow sea, so the big industrial units are floating death factories for all the fish and fish that make up the cod food chain. they are fished for fishmeal and forage. it's a predatory economy, it's a lack of proper nutrition for the cod, and it's disrupting the natural reproduction and growth of the species. the baltic sea is dying, crying out for help. it's time to save cod - a fish that, according to mark kurlansky, has changed the world and, according to the european commission, may be forgotten.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i'll just focus on the facts. the government of president mugabe has repeatedly broken the rule of law, civil liberties are restricted, and corruption has effectively stunted the country's development. since freedom of expression, association and assembly are enshrined in zimbabwe's constitution, the reports of the authorities' treatment of pastor mawarire and other human rights defenders, including itai dzamara, who has disappeared under mysterious circumstances, are deeply disturbing. numerous social protests calling for economic improvement and respect for human rights were brutally suppressed by the government, and the pastor was released with politically motivated charges. respect for human rights is an essential element of acp-eu cooperation under the cotonou agreement, to which zimbabwe is a signatory. therefore, the authorities of this country must stop the repression of human rights defenders and opposition representatives. this is very important, especially in the context of next year's presidential election.
author. – madam president, we commemorate the sad anniversary of the illegal annexation of crimea by the russian federation. we have to remember that the crimean tatars are the indigenous people who have been living there for centuries, intimidated by the imperial will of earlier russian tsars, then by stalin, and now by putin’s regime. they were offered open annexation and a political deal, a puppet autonomy under russian rule, for acceptance of the annexation. they are people of honour and therefore refused this deal. then intimidation and mass violation of their human rights started, including the delegalisation of their political representation, the mejlis, and the pronouncement that this respectable body had terrorist links. we have had the opportunity to listen to the families of people who perished under russian rule. mustafa dehermendzhy was arrested for actions taken before the annexation. the same happened to other people.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, march 2017 marks the third sad anniversary of the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula by the russian federation. while time has passed, the illegal occupation of ukraine’s territory continues and the human rights situation in crimea has significantly deteriorated. at least 39 people are being held in detention in crimea on trumped—up charges, while the practice of the transfer of detainees to distant regions of russia still continues. moreover, systematic violations of human rights, the use of torture and degrading treatment of political prisoners have been recorded by various organisations such as the un human rights monitoring mission and amnesty international. too much time has passed to continue as if nothing had happened. i urge the commission to immediately address russia with a demand that the political oppression on the crimean peninsula be stopped. i call on the council to consider further restrictive measures to be imposed on individuals responsible for gross human rights violations, including the freezing of assets in eu banks. we need to continue to show our solidarity with our ukrainian friends in these difficult times.
i see that mr notis marias is absent, which is a pity. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the philippines the case of senator leila m. de lima
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is no doubt that drugs are a threat to society and that the fight against them is important and necessary. unfortunately, in the philippines, the work of the right general purpose has taken a very bad form in its implementation. first, the charges of illegal drug trafficking against senator de lima are completely fabricated and may not be part of the fight against drug trafficking, but of the political fight. second, the form that president duterte has taken of the war on drugs is highly troubling. in just a few months, more than 7,000 people have been killed by police or by self-styled vigilante groups as part of the war on drugs. i therefore believe that the european union should use all the instruments at its disposal to pressure the philippine authorities to abandon these highly undemocratic practices and to respect human rights.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i fully appreciate the intentions of the creators of this program, but i have four comments. the first is finances, which my predecessors have talked about a lot. it cannot be funding that undermines other well-functioning programs that are suffering from a lack of resources. secondly, the existence of a local dimension to this programme is a huge opportunity for the less active communities, for the communities of the disabled, for those who are resistant to cross-border mobility. but to activate these environments, they need to be properly rewarded. this can't be free labor. i was concerned to hear the commissioner say there would be internships and traineeships, some of them paid. does that mean there'll be free internships and internships, too? another issue is the coordination of this programme with other existing programmes, for example, its presentation on the eures platform. and the last thing is to pay attention to the follow-up to the volunteer experience so that it doesn't lose its impact.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the european solidarity corps - which everyone here has already talked about - is an opportunity for young people through volunteering, internships and work. but i think it is important to keep volunteering activities clearly separated from those involving employment. the organisations involved in the corps cannot use young people as free volunteers - as professor łybacka has just said - when there are good quality jobs available. it is also important that the skills acquired in the course of volunteering are subsequently recognised in the labour market. the programme's clear advantage is that it can increase the mobility of young people and give them the experience they need for their future work, as well as developing an active citizenship. the programme aims to encourage more young people to engage in various solidarity activities. however, it is crucial to clearly define the framework mentioned by many colleagues here and the funding of the programme, especially as the commission has already started the initial phase of the implementation of the european solidarity corps. transferring funds from well-functioning programmes such as erasmus+ or europe for citizens is not a good solution, as my colleague zver has pointed out. the european solidarity corps should build on, strengthen and develop existing initiatives, rather than replace them. it should also be noted that the european voluntary service is a 20-year programme which has proved to be a great success. in creating the european solidarity corps, we should draw on the knowledge and experience of european voluntary service and ensure the complementarity of these programmes.
madam president! fellow workers! human trafficking is the third most lucrative illegal business after arms and drugs. women and girls are the main victims of trafficking, accounting for 85% of all victims. the scale of this crime is enormous: 30 million victims, including 5 million girls. of course, we repeat here in this room that the primary purpose of human trafficking is sexual exploitation. pope francis has called human trafficking a shameful plague, unworthy of a civilized society. the man becomes a commodity in this process. it's a callous trampling on human dignity. victims of these crimes are often used as organ donors, forced into illegal labor. this is also a problem in the european union. how's that? we want to set standards, but we can't protect girls, women? there is an urgent need for coordination of services, for joint action in the cause of good.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i agree with susanne melior, who said that this is a very important discussion. i would like to thank you all for sharing your views on this important matter. as you have confirmed, deforestation is a very complex issue and i think we can agree on a number of points. but we need to take a broader look at deforestation because it is not caused only by the palm oil industry. on the other hand, not all the palm oil industry produces deforestation. so we cannot take a black and white approach. here i would like to draw a parallel with agriculture. as in all activities, agricultural activity has both good and bad practices. i agree totally that we need to have a more sustainable agriculture, but we cannot say that we have to scrap all agriculture. a number of colleagues mentioned traceability. i think that traceability and informing consumers about the sustainable production of products also helps a great deal as consumers can take on – and i think consumers should take on – their environmental responsibilities as well. i agree with bas eickhout who said that the power of consumers cannot be underestimated. we all agree that we should stop irregular and unsustainable production, not just of palm oil, but any unsustainable production of any product. but do we all agree that all production of palm oil is irregular, illegal or unsustainable? julie girling also mentioned palm oil certification. the commission is also specifically looking at the issue of palm oil certification schemes through a dedicated study which will inform its ongoing work on deforestation. some members also mentioned palm oil as a biofuel. we need to work on sustainable production, but we also need to work on sustainable consumption, including biofuels. the commission has already proposed revising the renewal energy directive to gradually reduce the share of food-based biofuels after 2020. already this directive does not allow biofuels to count towards renewable energy targets if they come from land that has been deforested since 2008. i think the final speaker or the speaker before last also mentioned that palm oil in baby food is toxic and harmful. here our information is that the european food safety authority (efsa) is working on this, but there is no proof that these products are toxic or harmful. i will conclude by saying that this report by parliament is a very useful contribution to the debate. i have already mentioned that the commission launched a study last year which will give us a better insight into this industry. in addition, the commission will also be organising a conference on illegal logging and deforestation in the coming months in brussels, bringing together producer and consumer countries, as well as private sector and civil society organisations. here i would like to mention that kateřina and all her colleagues could – and should – also participate in this conference. i trust that this conference will provide a very useful opportunity to strengthen our dialogue with third countries and trigger further contributions to the commission’s work on deforestation. finally, once again, i would like to thank kateřina konečná and her colleagues for their good work.
ladies and gentlemen! we are tackling an important issue for the functioning of the world market, in this case primarily for our trade relations with the mercosur countries. the most important issue here is the issue of standards and compliance with certain rules, but also the issue of mutual trust between partners. it is in this context that the recent incidents in brazil, which are - hopefully - only incidents and not a consistent practice, should be considered, firstly, in relation to the placing on the eu market of substandard meat, and secondly, in relation to the breach of the principles of cooperation which underpin trade relations. we have high standards in the european union. our consumers and all of us expect the same requirements for imported goods. and this is about food, which has a significant impact on human health. i now turn to the question put by the committee on agriculture and rural development, which has been prepared with the active participation of many members of our committee, but also of other members. operation carne fraca a two-year investigation by the brazilian federal police into two of brazil's largest meat processing plants (jbs and brf) in the seven main brazilian beef-producing states has raised huge concerns. the investigation revealed serious abuses and corruption in a sector where potentially dangerous and fraudulent products are introduced into the food chain, posing a threat to european consumers. according to investigators, federal inspectors received money in exchange for ignoring counterfeits or expired expired processed foods. sanitary permits and export certificates were also forged. in addition, the investigation revealed that chemicals were used to improve the appearance and smell of the expired meat, as well as cheaper products were added to the meat. european consumers are seriously concerned by reports that salmonella-infected meat has been exported to europe and that ascorbic acid has been used to improve the appearance of spoiled meat. brazil is the world's largest exporter of beef and poultry. it is also the largest meat supplier in the union, bringing hundreds of thousands of tonnes of beef and poultry to our market every year. european producers and consumers expect all meat imported into the union to meet high european food quality standards. can the commission provide details on the imports of these contaminated products into the union, specifying the volume of suspected products and the european markets to which these products were sold? 2.why have european inspection services failed to detect this systematic fraud involving the placing of counterfeit meat on the eu market? what advice will the commission give to member states to strengthen controls following these reports? 3. given the food safety concerns raised by the scandal, how will the reports affect the ongoing trade negotiations with the mercosur countries? is it time to review the negotiations and remove meat from the trade negotiation agenda? that's the end of the question. i have put a question on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development and now my brief comment. we must use this situation to review our relations with brazil in terms of rules and control systems and make clear our demands for the correction of errors and shortcomings. it is important that the brazilian side itself detects these irregularities and according to information from brazil, its services have been dealing with this matter for some time. it is a pity that there has been no cooperation with the eu side in this regard. i believe that the review i have mentioned can provide a new opening which should be taken into account in the negotiations with mercosur. we in the union must also draw lessons and evaluate our control system. this should contribute to better relations in the future and to the respect by the brazilian side of the union's requirements.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in taking part in the debate on imports of beef from brazil into the union potentially dangerous for consumers i would like to point out that the eu veterinary and health services have not detected this and we have learned about it from the media. however, this practice took place and continued for months, as confirmed by the investigation of the brazilian police, which was carried out, among others, against the largest beef processing plants. more than 145 000 tonnes of beef were imported from brazil to the union in 2016 alone, representing 42% of all imports of this meat into the community countries, and there is little doubt that meat dangerous to consumers has been placed on european tables, which indicates a huge public health security risk. in this situation, the commission's proposed increased controls on imported brazilian meat are rather half measures. in my opinion, until this matter is clarified, the import of beef from this country should be banned.
madam president! first of all, thank you and congratulations to mr. werner kuhn for a very good report. however, i have an important point to make about the scope of the definition of fishing vessels. it should be extended to distinguish between vessels intended for industrial fishing, the so-called "feeder vessels", and small-scale fishing vessels, the so-called "boaters". this is very important, especially for the baltic sea, which is a fragile ecosystem where industrial fishing is destroying fish stocks, mainly cod. this is also leading to the bankruptcy of the coastal fisheries. it is therefore necessary to establish a legal definition of industrial scale fishing and a definition of inshore small-scale fishing. we must protect the cod stocks in the baltic, we must protect traditional fishing by boat. it is our sacred duty to the present and future generations.
member of the commission. – madam president, my thanks to ms senra rodríguez and ms petir for this joint report of the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm). the strength of support for your joint report reflects the fact that you have accurately identified the challenges faced by women in rural areas. the commission welcomes the report in terms of its recognition of the contribution that women make to the rural economy, and also of the opportunities for women both on- and off-farm. gender equality is a fundamental eu value. as policymakers, we have a responsibility to ensure that the rights of women are fully protected and to enable women to realise their potential. this needs both legislative and non-legislative action. we are committed to mainstreaming the gender perspective into all policy areas and to promote gender equality in the preparation and implementation of eu programmes. this includes the cap, the rural development policy, which is an essential element of the wider policies supporting both on-farm and off-farm investment to ensure the vitality and viability of our rural communities. the report emphasises the importance of the family farm model, which frequently involves the participation of all family members and often as many as three generations. the modernised and simplified cap will continue to foster and support european family farms. we need to provide opportunities to young men and women who wish to live and work in rural communities, so that they can make the most of their potential. attractive rural communities will help generate balanced territorial development. we also recognised the need to do more in relation to the roll-out of rural broadband, which is essential if we are going to encourage those who wish to live and those who wish to work in rural communities. women have always played a huge role on family farms, even if not always adequately rewarded financially. today, the numbers of women wishing to enter farming in europe has probably never been higher, yet there are persistent barriers to entry that prevent many young men and women from taking up farming, and women face particular problems. the cork 2.0 declaration on a better life for rural areas includes strong messages that rural areas must be attractive places for people in which to live and to work throughout the different stages of life. your report addresses itself to the commission and to the member states. we must all take our respective responsibilities in formulating a comprehensive and considered response, and i trust that the member states will take careful note of the report’s observations and recommendations. honourable members, this report reminds us all of the essential role that women play in rural areas and throughout society. it also reminds us that there are challenges facing women, but there are also opportunities. it reminds us that adopting legislation is not enough to remedy inequality. we must also make certain it is properly implemented.
in writing. – equality between women and men is one of the basic values of the european union and it should not be different in rural areas. women in rural areas are under-represented in the executive bodies, and face, among other things, significant pension gaps, violence and difficulties to access childcare. we must safeguard the effective implementation of the barcelona objectives concerning childcare facilities and urge member states to ratify the istanbul convention to fight those challenges. in order to secure the possibilities for women, and not only for them, to develop their entrepreneurial potential, it is necessary to guarantee the connection of rural areas with economic centres. therefore, i encourage member states to use wisely the sources from the cohesion and structural funds to expand the infrastructure and to provide full coverage by internet network. i would like to point out finland as an example to follow regarding providing access to the internet for isolated areas. furthermore, i call on the commission to include the question of rural areas in the digital agenda, since digital development can influence the quality of life and boost competitiveness and employment.
in writing. i think this is a very important report, as it highlights the importance of the role of women, whose hard work so far seems to be under-recognised and under-appreciated in rural areas. i had the pleasure of working on this report as a shadow rapporteur and was also able to introduce some positive changes to its content, including increased funding for women's aid projects (now both pillar i and pillar ii). however, while i strongly support the broadly defined improvement of working conditions for women in rural areas, i regret that i cannot agree with the term 'gender mainstreaming' proposed in the report, as this concept is vague and undefined in international law. i am also concerned about the call for ratification of the istanbul convention, which, firstly, also involves changing the definition of gender and, secondly, allows the european commission to intervene unduly in the areas of social and employment policy, which are the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! within the eu, family farms are dominant, with nearly 80% of work done by family members. given that only 60% of women in rural areas are in formal employment, this means that a large proportion of them are in so-called invisible work. this is a serious problem, because very often they are not covered by the social security system and do not have their own financial resources. this in turn makes them dependent on their husbands and partners for their entire lives. so we should think about how to solve this problem within the eu. the member states have the primary responsibility for this area, but it would be worthwhile to consider introducing a system of incentives for the institutionalisation of the work of women and other family members within the framework of the common agricultural policy, and to set up a mechanism for the exchange of good practice between member states. some european countries have already recognised the problem of 'invisible' female labour and have developed various solutions, including for example differentiating the legal status of spouses working in family farms. a good example is france, where family members may have the status of manager, co-worker or employee. the granting of official occupational status is one of the ways to strengthen women's financial independence and guarantee them higher pension benefits. this is so important that without taking these measures, we will not be able to stop the depopulation of rural areas.
madam president! as all decent socialists, communists and other leftists know, the capitalist is a terrible man. the capitalist only dreams of exploiting his worker. it's his favorite dream and his favorite game is to fire a worker who makes more money to hire someone who makes less money. well, if women were paid 16 percent less for the same work, surely the capitalists would throw out all the men and replace them with women. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
a month ago in this house i spoke about a woman who, without her consent, despite desperate efforts by her defence, was killed in one of the dutch "levenseindeclinieken". i called for a reaction from the commission's vice-president, mr frans timmermans, who is officially in charge of human rights. two weeks ago, during his first visit to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in two years, i tried to get his opinion directly. the vice-chairman refused, explaining that this was not the subject of his visit to the committee. this attitude reflects the real attitude of the current european commission's management towards the rule of law, parliamentary control and, above all, human rights and the most tragic human misery.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. the emissions cheating scandal is an example of fraud stemming from obvious flaws in the european passenger car approval system. clear loopholes that no one can be held accountable for. no one in europe, because the us authorities have made sure that the customers who were the first to suffer in this affair are compensated. i don't think the idea of another agency to solve another problem is a good idea. first of all, we need precise regulations and uniform interpretation of these regulations to avoid a huge number of exceptions, special conditions under which the emission standards are respected. the commissioner has expressed her enthusiasm for our draft resolution, but i would like her to express her enthusiasm above all for the measures that the commission and the commissioner must take in the future to prevent such fraud in europe. because if there is fraud in europe and there is no accountability, then there is no europe.
mr. chairman, please! we all agree here that the european car market needs stronger supervision, and i am very pleased that we are now moving in the right direction. i would like to thank our colleague ivanov štefancov. i hope that in the negotiations with the council he will be able to defend the demands that are important to consumers, so that the car market can function better and better. this new supervision means more powers for the european commission for the common management of the automotive market, as already mentioned by andreas schwab. and i hope that this will finally help to rebuild consumer confidence in the automotive sector, which has been under a lot of strain lately. and it is also important that this car market supports innovation: the use of the internet, 'big data' all of this is providing huge opportunities for innovation in the car sector. and we have to make sure that europe is a leader in this area. consumers want to benefit from the telematics revolution, and we need to make sure they have the right to choose whether they want to use manufacturing workshops or other small workshops not authorised by the vendors. i am glad that we have succeeded in introducing provisions in the regulation to protect the interests of consumers in this respect, but also the millions of jobs for small and mediumsized enterprises. thank you so much for your great cooperation.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i know evelyne gebhardt's commitment to consumerism and i know it's genuine, but i wanted to ask, is adding more agencies, more bureaucracy and more institutions really on the consumer side? is it not enough to give more rights to those institutions which already exist and which function, like the european commission, under our control?
madam president! we voted in favour of a report which attempts to deal with the problem which has been described as the ecological disaster of the 21st century, causing poisoning and disease in people in indonesia, borneo, sumatra and the surrounding areas, destruction of animals by deforestation and the burning of tropical forests for the cultivation of palm oil, which is unfortunately used as the cheapest, if not the best, version of vegetable oil used for oil production, in the timber, food and cosmetics industries. according to the united nations, by 2020, up to 98 percent of the world's rain forests will be destroyed. this will lead to environmental pollution, and indirectly we are involved in this, because 46% of palm oil is imported into the european union. despite attempts to regulate, corporate greed is driving the use of uncertified palm oil, which, in addition to its negative health effects, is also contributing to carbon dioxide and climate change.
madam president! we're talking about a subject that is multi-dimensional: it's about economics, it's about social issues, it's about energy and it's about health, but the most moving part is the ecological aspect. this is the industrial use of palm oil, very often with harm to human health, just as often with the disregard of the labour rights of people working on plantations, and also with the exploitation of child labour and the deforestation in countries where oil palm is grown. the european union should certainly press the countries with which we cooperate to apply national and international regulations in this area, in order to eliminate this harm.
madam president! although the report proposes a number of solutions, i voted against it because of the high degree of interference in the field of social and employment policy. while i support women's equality, i believe that introducing a gender dimension and even female partnerships into the cap will not rebuild family farms, which were eliminated by previous policies that led to farmer flight and unemployment. this is not prevented by the multifaceted reports, which also contain controversial and ambiguous concepts such as green jobs, the promotion of full equality between women and men in rural areas, gender neutrality of all professions, which demands a break with the traditional division of tasks in agriculture, especially in poland, where according to the constitution the family farm is the basis of the agricultural system of the republic. equally ambiguous is the promotion of equal access to land.
madam president! the issues of gender equality, and particularly the promotion of women in their roles in modern european society, are much better off in most countries than they used to be. there's no doubt progress has been made here. but still, in most fields, women are treated differently, unequally compared to men. that is why i have supported this resolution and all the previous documents on equality between men and women, and i intend to continue to support them. in this case, when we talk about the special situation of women in the countryside, in small towns, we have to remember that these inequalities are greater than in the big centers, in the big cities. i voted for this document even more.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i have a question for the commissioner and congresswoman keller. well, on the one hand, i'd like to ask, because i'm not hiding the fact that certain issues... (the president interrupted the member and informed him that he could only put a question to mr ferber)
the question asked by raising the blue card. well, i have a similar question for mr. ferber. economics is a science, so there are some things to be calculated. very often in today's debate there were voices that were typically social, voices that spoke of a certain solidarity, of compassion for the greek people who are experiencing difficulties, who are experiencing difficulties because of their internal budgetary situation. so i have a question for mr. ferber. how do you see the practical reconciliation of these two issues: the issues of predictable economics on the one hand, and social issues on the other?
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of commissioner moscovici and of the commission, i welcome your comments and interventions. emotions, difficulties and anger all of course show that we have a really very challenging situation and that it is not easy to reach agreement. the state of play on the greek stability support programme is an important discussion to have and i think it is a discussion that we must have openly. greece is now at an important juncture. it is one and a half years into its european stability mechanism support programme. this is a time to engrain the progress made to date in greece, support the economic recovery which began to emerge in 2016, and thus secure a successful exit from the programme in 2018, as planned. therefore, as commissioner moscovici outlined in his opening intervention, swift progress must now be quickly made in closing this second programme review. these elements of the post-programme package should be fair and balanced in order to avoid further uncertainty and come to an agreement on the elements that could help bring the imf on board. agreement on an overall package that also provides certainty on the primary surplus path and greek debt sustainability among all partners should be reached swiftly in view of friday’s eurogroup. a sustainable recovery, and economic and financial stability, are not only in the interests of greece and its citizens, but in the interests of us all, and the european union as a whole.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the position of the council adopted at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices, amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) no 178/2002 and regulation (ec) no 1223/2009 and repealing council directives 90/385/eec and 93/42/eec (10728/4/2016 - c8-0104/2017 - 2012/0266 ((cod)) (rapporteur: glenis willmott) (a8-0068/2017) and followed by recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the position of the council adopted at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices, amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) no 178/2002 and regulation (ec) no 1223/2009 and repealing council directives 90/385/eec and 93/42/eec (10728/44/2016 - c8-0104/2017 - 2012/0266 ((cod)) (rapporteur: glenis willmott) (a8-0068/2017) and followed by recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the position of the council adopted at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of a regulation of the council regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices, amending regulation (ec) amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) amending directive 2001/88/ec, regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) and regulation (ec
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs willmott. i congratulate you on the applause you received. they really were. the next speaker is the rapporteur, peter liese.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to warmly thank your house and you, the members of the european parliament, for the determination that you have constantly shown. over the past five years, you have striven for a successful outcome on such a technical and complex file. i know that many of you have worked on this issue. i would like to thank, in particular, the rapporteurs on the two regulations, ms willmott and mr liese, for their outstanding competence and dedication to this file. thank you once again. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, and i have not forgotten the rapporteur on medical devices under the previous legislative term, ms dagmar roth-behrendt. as you know, the eu is world leader in the medical device field. in the eu the sector employs over half a million people in about 25 000 companies, of which around 90% are smes. annual sales amount to eur 100 billion, of which a significant part is invested annually in research. the availability of safe and innovative medical devices is a key factor in guaranteeing effective and affordable treatments for european patients. designing a new regulatory framework for this sensitive and crucial sector is the joint responsibility of all the eu institutions. the commission wholeheartedly welcomes the final compromise, which contains a series of crucial improvements to the current system. let me mention some of them: first, strict market control for high—risk devices; second, reinforced criteria for the designation and oversight of notified bodies; third, the inclusion of certain aesthetic devices in the new legislation; fourth, the introduction of a new risk classification system for diagnostic in vitro medical devices; fifth, improved transparency via the establishment of an eu database on medical devices; sixth, a stability system based on unique device identification; seventh, the introduction of an implant card for patients; eighth, stricter and more detailed rules on clinical evidence and clinical investigation; and, ninth, an improved coordination mechanism between member states for vigilance and market surveillance. the new european legislation will ensure a higher level of patient safety, provide legal certainty for economic operators and promote innovation and competitiveness in the sector. it consolidates the role of the eu as global leader in the field, while establishing a world-class reference for medical device regulation. thank you once again.
i would like to thank commissioner andriukaitis very much for his speech, for this atmosphere of mutual understanding.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! in the preparation of the reports, i have always tried to put a strong emphasis on ensuring the right balance between the priority of patient safety and technological progress, the competences of the member states and the competences of the european union institutions. the very fact that there have been ten tripartite meetings, during which a rather satisfactory interinstitutional agreement has been reached, shows how difficult the process has been but how possible it has been. on the one hand, the priority of patient safety is described in the report by the creation of special notified bodies which are now obliged to carry out unannounced inspections in production facilities, which means that for devices, especially high-risk devices, it is not enough to simply check the relevant documentation, but moreover, it is also necessary to check and carry out the appropriate control at the place of manufacture of the product in question. on the other hand, the report promotes new medical technologies by opening the way for encouraging manufacturers to seek - and, where necessary, also to seek - substitutes for substances that may be carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic. in addition, the quality of patient safety has been improved by the involvement of special expert teams to carry out independent assessments. i think this text is good. it will improve the legal framework for medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices so that they are safer and do not impede qualitative progress in the development of medical technologies, and it respects the division of competences between the european institutions and the member states. and although not all the issues that are proposed are satisfactory to me, such as genetic counselling, i voted for and i will vote for.
mr. chairman, please! the amendments to the legislation on medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices were necessary not only to eliminate the scandalous irregularities but also to allow easier access for patients to modern medical technologies, which was not guaranteed by the outdated regulations of 20 years ago. the introduction of unannounced inspections by legally empowered notified bodies assessing the conformity of a product with the applicable rules is likely to improve safety, particularly for the highest risk products. it is a pity that a rule has not been introduced requiring producers to take out insurance, probably because of the possible increase in product prices. however, it is a good thing that the relevant authorities are obliged to provide information to the injured parties about the defective performance of the product, which is of great importance in the case of claims and the demonstration of a causal relationship. i hope the document is accepted.
thank you very much. thank you. it has been a great pleasure to preside over a debate that has been going on in the way that it is now coming to an end. may i just say that there was not a single blue-card appearance, which means that we were all guided by a similar concern. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. work on modernising the legislation on medical devices, including in vitro diagnostics, has been ongoing since 2012 and the current solutions in this area were developed in the 1990s. the speed of technological progress and innovation in this field has required regulatory adaptation, as the legislation has shown. the main objectives of the regulations were to ensure the safety of products sold in the eu and to increase access to innovative solutions so that they could effectively serve to protect patients. we have to remember that these devices, in many cases, help diagnose and treat diseases, ailments, and, very importantly, by using them, we can prevent them. the catalogue of medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices is made up of over 500 000 products available on the eu market. to avoid the scandals we've seen in the past, when defective, substandard silicone breast implants were implanted in 300,000 women around the world, it's imperative that we ensure the safety of these devices. the most effective way is to control, identify and supervise medical devices throughout their life cycle. this will allow decisive action and response in the event of problems that could have a negative impact on human life and health, which should be the highest value.
the next item is the report by elena valenciano and agustín díaz de merá garcía consuegra, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development, on solutions to the flow of refugees and migrants: the role of eu external action (2015/2342(ini)) (a8-0045/2017).
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the number of refugees has increased by more than 50% in the last five years, and the migration crisis is a situation of unprecedented scale that has challenged our ability to act at european, national and local levels. the union's internal and external policies must be more coherent in this respect, covering foreign affairs, security, trade, development, humanitarian aid and, of course, migration. in this context, it is important to keep in mind the distinction between refugee and migrant status. in international cooperation, we must focus on the root causes of migration, such as armed conflict, human rights violations, poverty, discrimination and marginalization of certain social groups, and effectively address them. a prudent and coherent development policy based on the assumption that partner countries are responsible for their own internal improvement efforts should also be borne in mind. the link between positive conditionality in development aid and issues of good governance, respect for human rights and democratic values should be strengthened. the fight against trafficking in human beings, including children, and organised crime linked to the migration and refugee crisis is also a major challenge, and requires better coordination between the european union and other international actors.
madam president! my name is sławomir kłosowski. i wanted to ask the chairwoman at what point in the rules of procedure did i behave inappropriately by raising my question card? the chairwoman didn't give me that vote. if i may ask, i would very much like an answer.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i'll take the liberty of asking the honourable member a question, and by the way, this is the late member representing the spanish view on emigration. the member stated that the main problem and the reason for the regret that spain had taken in not 15 but 10 000 migrants was indeed economic. and so the question is, is it not better to eliminate these kinds of situations from the countries of origin? and a question to the honourable member: the honourable member himself has stated that in the queue for these refugees - because the category of refugees and emigrants is very, very fluid here - i would ask that we clarify who is a refugee and who is an immigrant. eventually, that billion people in line will bring a huge threat to europe.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i come from a country that in the 1990s - which few people know about - took in almost 100,000 immigrants, refugees, muslims from chechnya, which was then invaded by russia, which still occupies it. there's only a few of them left, to be honest, but i think i'm entitled to speak on this particular subject. we have also taken in a very large number of immigrants - i do not want to say refugees, because the definitions are different - and mr klossowski is right in calling for a very strict definition of the terms 'refugee' and 'immigrant'. so we took in about a million and a half people from the ukraine. they're mostly immigrants, but they're also appreciated. i think that the decisions of the european union on this matter should be made by consensus, not by a minority vote by a majority.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. we are supposed to talk about solving the immigration crisis - so the title of this report declares. however, paragraphs 16 and 39, for example, contain indirect but explicit calls for the legalisation of illegal immigration and as such are clearly an attack on the sovereignty of states and the rule of law. and it must be remembered, your honor, that it is precisely such calls, such statements about the legalization of illegal immigration that have actually built the economy for the illegal immigration industry. and this illegal immigration industry is increasingly -- according to the information we have -- infiltrated by the islamic state caliphate. moreover - and i think this is the most important - the fact is that the suggestion that illegal immigration will be legalized sooner or later is at the root of the tragedy of thousands of people who have been exploited by smugglers.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: both today's debate and tomorrow's vote are symbolic, because for the first time in the history of the debate on the european union's budget, the multiannual perspective, we will be deciding on the revision of the financial perspective. i would like to stress in this connection that the european parliament first proposed this before the financial perspective regulation was adopted, and last year parliament started the debate on revision on the assumption that what is in the regulation, namely the need for revision, was the first and necessary step. the european parliament has therefore reviewed certain elements of the implementation of the multiannual financial perspective 2014-2020 and has concluded that amendments are necessary. he proposed a number of these amendments, which were then discussed in the council and, of course, examined very carefully by the commission. after the initial doubts that arose, we were very satisfied to hear that the commission had supported the request for revision and that the council, after long debates and the doubts of some member states, had also agreed that the multiannual financial perspective needed to be revised. it should also be borne in mind that these types of changes have a fundamental impact on the debate on the future financial perspective beyond 2020. if we have decided to revise and change the perspective, it means that we will also be ready for more flexibility and revision in the next financial perspective. i would like to point out that what we have discussed is not just purely budgetary matters. a proposal for greater simplification is also part of the revision. please note that work is being done on the amendment of the financial regulation, the so-called omnibus, in parallel to the budget debate. these things should not be separated, because revision means a change of approach, a change of approach. what we are voting on tomorrow, as you know, is a wide range of issues. firstly, it concerns greater flexibility, which will allow us to continue to tackle new tasks in the coming years, which were not foreseen at the very beginning of the financial perspective. more flexibility will also allow the amounts not used properly to be used in the last years of the financial perspective, i.e. before the end of the financial perspective, which is not the case at present. at the moment, this money is being returned to the member states. and we hope that in the next few years, we'll be able to use that more. increasing flexibility is therefore the first result of the work that has been carried out between the european institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following: the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work; the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work. in other words, allocating more money to tasks specifically related to the new challenges of the immigration crisis and also to the employment of young people. the european parliament has expressed its doubts about the reuse of amounts within the budget, but we will probably discuss this issue in future work on annual budgets. i would like to emphasise in this connection that the so-called package of amendments, which includes both the amendment of the regulation and the additional elements on which we will be voting, creates a completely new situation in the debate on the financial perspective, and i think it will be a good starting point for the discussion on the next financial perspective after 2020.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in the debate on the review of the financial framework, i would like to stress that the polish delegation to the ecr group is in favour of adopting the solutions proposed in both mr olbricht's and mrs thomas' reports. in view of the unprecedented challenges posed by instability in the union's neighbourhood, both to the south and to the east, resulting in mass migration flows and the related security threats, the union needs both additional financial resources and new instruments to address these challenges. the allocation of an additional eur 2.5 billion for migration-related measures and eur 1.4 billion for combating the causes of migration, the creation of a new instrument in the form of a crisis reserve financed from decommitted appropriations, and other measures to make the union budget more flexible are all decisions that will allow for a response that is appropriate to the scale of the risks posed by mass migration.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their determination in their work, in preparing such an important and courageous report. it's a new approach, maybe not new, maybe just another one, but it works. new approaches to the implementation of the multiannual financial framework are emerging. this is important because it creates additional opportunities for action in response to emerging new challenges. the report mentions unemployment, refugees, youth, horizon 2020, innovation and the erasmus+ programme. the introduction of flexibility will give us an opportunity to use resources that we have not had before. the long period of the multiannual financial framework which is emphasized here today makes it necessary to make changes to the budget in the course of this great undertaking. the proposed solutions are well received in the communities of the future beneficiaries. the omnibus raises high hopes, and a number of simplifications are expected, including in particular the complex and difficult common agricultural policy. this direction of change requires further determination in action. ladies and gentlemen! it's also a good start for the work on the new financial perspective.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your support. i think that this debate has made it very clear that not all of us in the european parliament are clear on the situation. the most important thing for us - and it was a very difficult task - was to convince the council (i think the slovak presidency, but also the maltese presidency, should be very grateful) with the very strong support of the european commission that the financial perspective is not something that is rigid. it was crucial for us to show that when new challenges and tasks arise, there is an opportunity or even a need for change. i think that's the key to the whole thing. on the one hand, there are of course additional financial resources, but above all it is important that the budget of the european union be flexible, that it responds to external action. on the other hand, i think we were clear in the debate on the revision of what can be done within the framework of the european budget. unfortunately, the european budget cannot do everything, and there is no point in lying to the people of the european union that it is otherwise. this review has clearly shown what we can and cannot do, how we can do it more efficiently, effectively, intelligently and how much we are prepared to change. i believe that our common achievement and victory is that, with the help of the european commission, we have convinced governments and ministers that we can respond to certain changes with the budget, that the budget is an instrument for implementing certain policies, and not something that is given once and for all and rigid.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by neena gill, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on money market funds (com ((2013) 0615 c7-0263/2013 2013/0306 ((cod)) (a8-0041/2015).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. money market funds are a great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups. given the prominent role of money market funds in the financial crisis, regulation was very much needed. the ecr could not support the original claim because it overburdened the fixed value of the company's assets. after reaching agreement in the talks, which, although not entirely satisfactory, brought about many of the positive changes that the ecr group wanted, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for around three quarters of all jobs in the european union, we declare our support.
mr president, tomorrow we will finally approve a crucial piece of financial legislation, which is the money market funds regulation. we are talking about eur 1 trillion of money market funds investment in europe. these funds have become a vital cash management tool for many types of businesses, local authorities, ngos and universities. therefore they benefit all of us. unfortunately, the financial crisis revealed that this short-term investment instrument can pose some systemic risks. therefore, i welcome the fact that the european parliament and the council, after very long and difficult negotiations, have created for the first time a european regulatory framework for money market funds. in congratulating neena gill and the shadow rapporteurs on their work, i want to underline that this highly important piece of legislation that we will now have will make money market funds more resilient to crisis and more transparent, money market funds which can contribute to bridging the investment gap in europe which is something we, together with the commission, are striving to achieve. moreover, stable money market funds will be helpful in creating the capital market union. to name only a few of the various positive aspects of this document, i do appreciate that this regulation ensures that in the future there will be no run risk. thanks to the uniform rules on the portfolio of money market funds, we will be protected from the situations when investors would withdraw their money simultaneously. money market funds will be obliged to invest in higher quality assets and will not be able to rely on external support. it is crucial for money market funds to avoid over-reliance on external ratings and introduce the internal risk credit assessment by managers. the legislation protects investors and gives not only large multinationals, but also small companies, the opportunities to grow.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 april 2017.
the next item is the report by mr petr ježko on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading (com (2015) 0583 c8-0375/2015 2015/0268 cod)) (a8-0238/2016).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 april 2017.
madam president, the process of brexit has formally started and is testing political and technical capacities on both sides to get a timely and – as michel barnier said – successful agreement. the challenges the union is now facing in the context of the uk withdrawal are well understood and also shared by the union institutions. the european parliament is, and will be, at the forefront of the process and has shown a high level of political openness and cooperation, but also unity, in helping to define the union’s path for the upcoming negotiations. we cannot but welcome the constructive approach set out in the letter notifying the uk’s intention to withdraw and setting out the approach to the negotiations, but the truth is that the really hard choices are yet to come, and for many citizens transparent negotiations will be a learning process. we want to ensure legal certainty and stability and to avoid disruption for citizens and businesses across the union through an orderly and phased withdrawal, in line with union law and with a view to mitigating economic, political and emotional – mr annemans – damage. but this damage is already a fact of life. european institutions are united on basic guiding principles and values, as well as on ensuring the protection of the union’s autonomy and legal order. all this sets the right path for cooperative and, above all, principled negotiations based on good faith. for the european parliament the principles are clear. first and foremost, we must defend and promote the interests of the citizens of the union whom we represent, and safeguard the integrity and the coherence of the constitutional framework of the union. these are the key building blocks for the negotiation and also the absolute boundaries on the basis of which the european parliament will assess the outcome of the withdrawal negotiations through the consent procedure. we must be clear that abandoning membership cannot lead to a status quo ante and to unrealistic expectations. let me finish just by expressing my conviction that the concerns of those who were against abandoning membership should not remain unaddressed.
madam president! the uk, as prime minister theresa may has said, is leaving the eu, but not europe. this reminds us that despite the current exclusionary approach, the union is not europe. in negotiating with the uk, we should not forget this. we should not forget our common heritage and common interests, which will continue to bind us even after the uk leaves the union. the negotiations cannot be about punishing the united kingdom for a democratic decision to leave the union, in accordance with the right to leave enshrined in the treaties. the union cannot be a community based on fear and coercion, because that is the way to its end. instead, we should, at the same time as negotiations, embark on a process of profound reform of the union, restoring to it the spirit of freedom and solidarity based on freedom.
there could not have been this debate today, there could not have been the resolution and all the problems associated with it, if in a country that i personally admired very much (it was an inspiration for me when i was behind the iron curtain), this existential question of being or not to be in the eu had not become a hostage to intra-party calculations and games and if the referendum itself had not been so poisoned by demagogy and untruth. but brexit is a fact: we are going into the unknown, knowing only that a different vision of the future prevails in scotland, a different vision of the future prevails in northern ireland, a different vision of the future prevails in england itself. we have a road map for this uncertain future in the form of a draft resolution and from now on we will be shaping the fate of the european community of 27 countries and we do not need any special hints from our english colleagues. the draft resolution is in line with the wishes of my delegation and we have a great deal of interest in it, given the almost one million of our countrymen in the british isles. the truths are fundamental: agreement is better than no agreement, an orderly divorce is better than an uncontrolled outburst of anger, separation first, then shaping the future, the situation in the uk cannot be better than any other country. i see a renewal on the european continent, including in my own country, and it's a sign of a certain reflection that's been triggered by brexit.
madam president! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this resolution is simply good. i support it, especially the points where it says: 'to start negotiations as soon as possible under article 50'. yes, that's what we do. negotiate in good faith. that's the declaration. finally, the european union negotiates as the eu-27 without breaking up the individual countries. we are defending the interests of the citizens of the european union. i am, as a member from poland, interested in defending the interests of almost a million polish citizens living in the uk whose fate is uncertain. britain cannot expect to benefit unilaterally at the expense of the citizens of the european union. i support that too. i am aware that the eu-27 will be a smaller union, but it does not have to be a weaker union, and i am heartfelt with my labour party friends in this room who have expressed their grief at the developments.
in writing. the debate we are having is one of the most important in the history of the ep. for the first time, we are not setting the rules for joining the eu, but the conditions for the withdrawal of a member state from the union. i would therefore like to draw attention to just one aspect of this solution. as a member of the european union, britain contributed to the eu budget about 17 billion euros a year and received about 6 billion euros. the remaining funds, amounting to over eur 10 billion, were used to finance investments in many member states, including poland, each year. these countries have therefore planned their spending on the basis of the funds provided by the eu budget, also from uk contributions. in the negotiations with the united kingdom, it is therefore necessary to insist that it fully honour its financial commitments, since they have been one of the important sources of eu funds for the other countries. poland, like other member states, needs to be sure that its investments will be financed by the eu budget. i therefore believe that the european commission, as the negotiator for the eu27, should settle the financial obligations between the united kingdom and the european union in a consistent manner.
mr. chairman, please! brexit is a bad moment in the history of the european union, but this parting should be done with respect for both sides, and especially the interests of the citizens of the member states and the european union. we are all europeans, whether we live on the continent or on the islands. so today we should set the priorities for this process. i believe that the most important priority is security, including the fight against nationalism. because we're all going to deal with the bad effects of brexit, better or worse - because i'm convinced that they're going to be bad effects - individuals are going to be able to deal with it, businesses are going to be able to deal with it, financial markets are going to be able to deal with it, everybody is going to be able to deal with it. but we can't deal with conflict, we can't deal with strife, we can't deal with racism, we can't deal with xenophobia, we can't deal with nationalism, we can't deal with war.
mr. chairman, please! brexit will certainly be a difficult experience for both the union and the united kingdom. the two parties will work out the most mutually beneficial solution in the course of the negotiations. but the most important thing is that we remember first and foremost the european citizens in the uk and the british citizens in the eu countries for whom brexit will have a direct impact on their family and professional lives. millions of citizens today live in great uncertainty. they do not know whether they will still be able to enjoy the rights they have acquired over the years, whether they will still be able to work and live in the uk or - as british citizens - in the 27 countries of the european union. the obligation and priority in the negotiations should be to minimise the negative impact of brexit on citizens. both parties must ensure that acquired rights are respected and that freedom of movement, employment and the provision of services are reciprocally granted. the resolution made it clear that access to the single market cannot be granted without respect for the freedoms of the treaty which union citizens enjoy today. that is why i voted with conviction today for the resolution on the brexit negotiations.
mr. chairman, please! in the uk, the public can send signals to the government through by-elections, in germany through national elections, and in the european union we only have referenda. referendums that are really a test of the mood not just in a country, but in europe as a whole. it's time to accept that brexit was a representative response to the discontent of millions of europeans with the policies that the leadership of the european union is pursuing today. we just passed a resolution in this chamber today calling for the legalization of illegal immigration. we can cast spells on reality, we can cast spells on it, we can talk about nationalism, populism, but we cannot be enchanted by the basic fact that europe is made up of nations. if we do not respect the nations, there will be no europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, seven years ago the smolensk catastrophe occurred killing polish president lech kaczyński, his wife, and other members of the polish elite. fifteen minutes later a kremlin-triggered avalanche of fake news and disinformation started to move, so powerful that it was winning the imagination and perception of western societies. polish military pilots were blamed, the president himself, his generals. we had to swallow every possible humiliation, including the desecration of the bodies of the victims, which is totally alien to our civilisation. hopefully we are able to learn a lesson from the mistakes.
madam president! populism and lying have a very wide range. we need to talk about the extraordinary, about the propaganda coming from outside europe, trying to influence the decisions of our nations, of our voters, the propaganda organized by president putin, by russia putin. i want to join in the calls by mr štětina, ms macovei to mobilise the european commission and the high commissioner on this issue. and finally, the hate speech - let's be clear: it's really about christians and jews. these two communities are the ones who are discriminated against, including online discrimination. you have to talk about it openly. other groups are harmed to a much lesser degree. anti-christianity and anti-semitism are the most basic phenomena. the answer should be a good education that addresses the fundamentals of our civilization.
we rightly condemn hate speech. it's a fact that social media has become, for the most part, a cesspool. but i'm afraid that filtering and removing hate speech and fake news from the internet will be very one-sided and end up in selective political censorship. in this context, i would like to ask my colleagues whether the use of such words without thought or knowledge, such as 'populism', 'populist', 'nationalist', 'putinisation', 'anti-europeanism', the inflated use of the term 'fascism' or 'fascist', is hate speech or not? after all, such terms are not usually used to analyze or characterize views and actions. very often they are a tool to beat and discredit uncomfortable, politically hated competitors. will they, too, be deleted and filtered?
in writing. populist rhetoric, hate speech and false information disseminated mainly through social media is a growing problem that we cannot ignore. in the world of the ubiquitous internet, the flow of information has not only been accelerated, but it has also been democratized: almost anyone can, usually anonymously, put information online that is accessible to hundreds or tens of millions of citizens. and there is growing evidence that such activities are designed to produce certain political effects, such as destabilizing existing governments or influencing election results. so i'm glad that we've taken the first steps to combat this phenomenon, like the east stratcom task force, which includes the fight against false information. in its nearly 18 months of operation, the organization has uncovered more than 2,500 such cases, which is both a testament to its effectiveness and a testament to the scale of the problem. i think that given the seriousness of this problem, we should consider both strengthening this group and other intensive actions to counter hate speech and populism.
in writing. hate speech is a very serious but unfortunately often underestimated problem that can have serious consequences for the social order, increasing aggression, violence, conflicts. now we're seeing a disturbing increase in this phenomenon on the internet, social media and political discourse. hate speech is mostly born of ignorance, prejudice, or a lack of respect and tolerance for differences. the only long-term, effective tool to combat these phenomena is education. education helps to identify, combat and prevent propaganda and hate speech. from developing critical thinking skills, to developing discussion skills, communication skills, tolerance skills, education enables safe and responsible use of the internet and social media. it is therefore important that educational programmes targeting people of different ages and backgrounds address media use and critical thinking skills. these issues should also be integrated into the new european skills agenda. it is also essential to step up efforts, in cooperation with the council of europe, to promote education at all levels in the fight against hate speech and to organise social campaigns to combat racism and xenophobia online. i also stress our huge role as politicians in defending the public against hate speech and protecting their rights by raising awareness of human rights, promoting respect for freedom of expression and political culture.
in writing. the eurozone crisis has revealed deep structural inequalities within the union, a sense of division into winners and losers of globalisation processes, which has led to a rise in euroscepticism among voters and has allowed populist parties to gain power in many european countries. populists undermine the foundations of democracy, including by attempting to undermine the independence of the judiciary and the media, often also by creating artificial divisions in society based on the dichotomy of 'us' versus 'them'. in addition, we are seeing attempts to influence the situation in europe from outside by spreading disinformation, which could be part of a hybrid war. populism within the eu and disinformation from outside are two complex phenomena, but they are closely linked. they use similar manipulation techniques, and that's why we need to work together on precautions. the eu's response to disinformation, including that of populists, can only be impartial, credible and objective communication and the flow of information based on reliable facts. the first step towards providing eu citizens with access to such information is to strengthen media pluralism and independence in the european union and its neighbourhood. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation.
madam president! it's a big day indeed, if we can talk about the fact that in a few months, roaming surcharges will be gone. we'll pay everyone as we would in their home country, leaving for the countries of the european union. we've been waiting for this for ten years. i've been watching this because i've been a member of this committee for many years, and now i'm speaking on behalf of the itre committee. what's important is that we've done this process in ten years. we've gone three times to where we are today to make these fees go away, the extra fees. and this is important because we've been looking at how companies behave during that time, whether they're taking advantage of that to charge customers, and that's why, among other things, it's a three-step process. i also wanted to respond to the absurd allegations made by one of my colleagues who is not here, that the european union has been going on for a long time and that there is some misunderstanding that we are doing this within the union. ladies and gentlemen! when we leave the union, we continue to pay roaming charges outside the union. so if we were to expand the union to more countries, more countries would be free of these charges for us, for the people of the european union. so is it good to enlarge the european union or not? these are ridiculous accusations, and they're actually hard to answer. i also wanted to reply to my colleague mr helmer from the committee that one of the basic elements of free market regulation is, for example, antitrust law, and that is what all countries apply. i'm not going to talk about the dozens of other regulations that we have all over the world. unfortunately, a free market is not completely free, because then it would be a jungle, and what i wanted to say is that our work is not over, we have to implement everything that we have agreed, and we have to implement it well and look after it. i would like to congratulate mrs kumpula-natri, all the co-rapporteurs, including the previous ones: mrs pilar de castillo vera and others, the president, the vice-president and the previous commissioners, and the maltese presidency, the previous presidency, who also worked on this.
there is a fire alarm. please let us suspend our debate until the situation is clarified. (the sitting was suspended at 18.05 and resumed at 18.25)
i'd like to apologize for this incident, we don't know the cause yet. it was certainly nothing serious. i just wanted to say thank you very much to all the ladies and gentlemen for behaving themselves. danger declared always leave the building, be safe, leave the work to the appropriate services. it is a paradox that in the bureau i am responsible for parliament's security. sometimes it happens that the person who answers doesn't know what the cause was either. i don't know why yet. we're going back to the meeting. the next item on the agenda, following the fire alarm, is the continuation of the debate on the report drawn up by miapetra kumpula-natri on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 531/2012 as regards rules on wholesale roaming markets (com (2016) 0399 c8-0219/2016 2016/0185 cod)) (a8=0372/2016)
to quote your first words, i think it was not your words that triggered the alarm, because even today, there were much heavier words and the fire alarm was silent. well, we appreciate the weight of your words.
mr. chairman, please! in two months' time, roaming charges in the european union will be history, in two months' time, every traveller in europe will pay the same for telecommunications as in his own country. tomorrow's vote on roaming will remove the telephone barriers between the member states of the european union. this is good news for consumers who will pay lower bills, but it is also good news for businesses that will have lower operating costs, and in particular for small innovative companies and start-ups that will want to participate in the telecommunications services market. this is a very important day for me personally, because ten years ago here in the european parliament i was personally involved in the first reduction of roaming charges, and it was not easy, but the european parliament decided that the charges would be reduced despite the resistance of the telecommunications companies. and i'm glad that today or tomorrow we're going to vote to abolish roaming charges altogether. it took a long time, but it was worth it. i would like to say that this debate today and tomorrow's decision show that the european union is capable of making decisions that are good for people and good for the economy. this is particularly important at a time when eurosceptic and populist sentiments are spreading in europe and the european union is often unfairly criticised by all those who fail to see the concrete benefits of european integration.
mr. chairman, please! as we speak today of the abolition of roaming surcharges, i am reminded of the words of donald tusk, who recently said that the european union will be strongly united or not at all. and we need to come together with very concrete actions, and those actions are the removal of the barriers that divide our common european market into 28 different smaller markets. this is our common european market, where we all function, act, work, buy, sell, learn. and this long-awaited liberation of us from the extra... liberation, because this is our collective decision of all of us who have worked hard for many years liberation from the extra roaming charges, it's like opening the door to remove the next barriers in this common market, mainly our common digital market, where mr. vice president andrus ansip and i are trying to unify this market right now. and the other barriers that are still ahead of us are online shopping and access to cultural goods and all the digital goods that we all want to have access to and give access to others. so, again, just thank you all, starting with viviane reding, who started this whole roaming process, and now, today, to mrs. natri. congratulations to all and thank you very much, and let's keep it that way!
mr. chairman, please! the abolition of roaming charges is without doubt a clear, tangible example of the benefits the european union brings to our citizens. i am therefore pleased that, by adopting legislation on wholesale roaming markets, we are now completing the final stage in the process of abolishing those charges. i was pleased to hear that the non-negotiation resulted in a substantial reduction in the wholesale price ceilings compared to the original proposal. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of regular monitoring by the european commission of the changes taking place in national markets and the effects of the regulation in place, in order to identify any irregularities that may be burdensome for consumers at an early stage. i would like to extend my sincere congratulations and thanks to all the people who have made this a success.
vice president of the commission. – mr president, tomorrow will be a historic vote, as it will mark the final step of a long regulatory journey. this journey was a really long one. we started with this process in 2007, but in the beginning this process was not very rapid. but since last may we have been able to cut those roaming surcharges by 75%. altogether, in comparison with 2009, we were able to cut roaming surcharges for sms messages and voice minutes by 92% and for data by as much as 96%. at the same time, domestic prices in all our member states decreased. this is my message to all those people who are worried about the increase in domestic prices. exorbitant roaming charges were an anomaly in a continent where people move freely across, and between, countries. together the eu institutions are now putting an end to the roaming surcharges for our people. at last, people will be able to stop turning off the data on their phones when they cross an eu border. this is how it should be and how it should always have been. the commission, in cooperation with national regulatory authorities, will continue its close monitoring to ensure that the new rules of today’s deal are strictly observed by the operators. the eu is often criticised for not delivering concrete results to europeans. this is because the benefits of eu policies are sometimes difficult to grasp and identify in people’s daily lives. here is one well-identified and very concrete benefit. the commission strongly urges the european parliament to adopt the new regulation on wholesale roaming markets. we now need to come together and say with one voice that we delivered on our promise.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 6 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by maria gabriel, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (ukraine) (com (2016) 0236 c8-0150/2016) 2016/0125 (cod)) (a8-0274/2016)
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, on behalf of mrs mariya gabriel, rapporteur for the report for the visa liberalisation for ukrainian citizens, allow me to address some words. first and foremost, the rapporteur would like to thank the commission and the council for the excellent collaboration that has existed all through the process. the rapporteur would like to highlight the remarkable work realised by the slovak and maltese presidencies in order to achieve the completion of the visa liberalisation process so dear to the ukrainian citizens. the rapporteur would also like to thank the ukrainian people and the ukrainian government for all their efforts, determination and patience. indeed, on 28 february an agreement was reached between the european parliament and the council on the visa liberalisation process for ukraine. this agreement was confirmed by the coreper meeting two days later. on 9 march 2017, an overwhelming majority of meps on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) voted in favour of the visa waiver for ukrainian citizens, sending a strong message. in the words of the rapporteur, ukraine has achieved all the benchmark criteria set out by the eu and has even gone beyond expectations in terms of sustainable reforms. important advancements have been realised in the areas of document security, border and migration management, public order and security, and external relations and fundamental rights. for the rapporteur, it is these criteria and this methodology that are extremely important in the benefits that they produce. on the one hand, citizens benefit from the implementation of reforms that impact their daily lives. in fact, the visa waiver is a remarkable tool that allows to connect people and build bridges among populations. on the other hand, it is a strong message for the citizens that see their country engaged in a european path. given the commitment of ukraine to pursue in the way of the reforms undertaken and the consolidation and sustainability of its compromises, the rapporteur calls on us to confirm today the principle that the european parliament so heatedly defends: that every country that meets the criteria set out by the european commission should benefit of the visa waiver for its citizens. finally, the rapporteur would like to stress that ukraine is a key partner for the eu in the eastern partnership in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, the fight against human trafficking, and the fight against corruption. our vote tomorrow, supporting the visa waiver for the ukrainian citizens, would constitute in this sense the concrete realisation of their aspiration and engagement in favour of peace, stability and european ambition. on her behalf, i thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! twelve years of asymmetry, you could say, of course, can explain this state of affairs, but i think we're putting up with this visa requirement a little late. we promised it earlier, a few months ago we abolished visas for georgians, it's a pity we didn't do it at the same time for our eastern neighbors, who have indeed made a great effort in recent years to "westernize" their country. of course we can talk about neglect - they were mentioned here by my predecessors, but we must first see not only the efforts of the authorities, but the ukrainian society itself, which really wants to be part of the west also in the cultural and civilizational dimension. they said the green light, i think it was the red light, but the orange light was on for a long time. i would like this decision to be just the beginning of a strategic and close cooperation with ukraine, which will eventually lead to the country's joining our european family. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162, paragraph 8)
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i thank the honourable member very much for this question. this is a question from a member of parliament who knows the east well, has been there many times and i think is one of our experts on the subject. i think we need to help ukraine, also through economic instruments, but it's not a question of charity or our charity. this is a matter of our economic and political interest. these economic bridges must be built, also by observing the increasingly powerful pro-russian lobby, both here in the west and in ukraine.
far from this is written the scenario of the poles with ukrainians, i answer directly i support visa liberalization, the fight against aggression and difficult reforms. but if the word "polish woman, friend, person who can go against the flow" means anything to the ukrainians, i want them to know that the memory of stefan bandera's character is my greatest concern. but i believe that together we can overcome all obstacles. we must act in good faith and we shall be part of a european family.
mr. president, granting a visa-free regime is a very tangible act of support from the european union to citizens of ukraine. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her continuous efforts to make it happen. i closely monitor the current state of reforms, and i must say that the progress made in the past two or three years is truly unprecedented. ukraine is on a very ambitious path to create a properly-functioning economy in a democratic political system with the ultimately aim to finish the transition from post-soviet to european state. a lot of progress was made regarding the required reforms, especially in the field of judiciary, the fight against corruption, strengthening the democratic institutions, and the rule of law. there is a lot of work ahead for the full implementation of these reforms, especially considering a very difficult fight to regain full territorial integrity of the country. therefore, i am very happy that this house is taking an important step to enable ukrainian citizens to travel without visa. by this, we are showing to the ukrainian people, but also to the outside world, that you want stronger connection and more shared experiences, and i firmly believe that it is going to be to the mutual benefit of us all.
not only am i filling in for maria gabriel today, but i have my own performance. it's a very important day. let us remember the civic courage and tragic heroism of the maidan, which in 2014 became the true heart of europe, renewing the meaning of the european union in its freedom and economic dimension. and let's remember the choice that the ukrainian people made during this revolution of dignity. it's the way to europe and with europe. the reforms in ukraine are difficult, but what has been done to fight corruption, to make the banking sector transparent, to decentralize the state, to increase energy independence, to provide digital administrative services, to revive the economy, to bring the result from: 9 % of gdp to: + 2% of gdp. there are many difficult tasks ahead for ukraine, but we must remember a simple fact. ukraine is changing for the better in wartime conditions. russia took crimea and occupied the eastern part of the country. nearly two million people have been displaced and are now displaced across the country. what country could so wisely and efficiently change under the pressure of war? what country would be able to meet all the requirements for visa liberalisation under such circumstances? that is why we are pleased with the decision to liberalize the visa regime for ukraine. it's not a gift. it is an expression of our respect for the european path that ukraine has chosen. and this is a law for ukrainian citizens made by themselves.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, very briefly, thank you for the very comprehensive debate. it was focused on visa liberalisation for ukraine, but many problems and topics were also raised relating to the future cooperation between the european union and ukraine. those key topics are: implementation of the dcfta; the next steps of their reforms; our common cooperation related to border solutions; and also the problem of war and russian aggression. i think that it was very fruitful and we are thinking about further cooperation with ukraine. also, we are considering how to support ukraine in taking some steps that are important for ngos, civil society. i know the president established a special working group for solving the problem of this declaration of financial interest which was addressed also to civil society. all of those issues are very serious, and i have talked about serious interventions during this debate – not the extreme propaganda which was also presented during this debate.
in writing. i fully support the unconditional abolition of the visa requirement for ukraine, as this is an important signal confirming the pro-european aspirations of this country. the european commission has regularly monitored ukraine's fulfilment of the liberalisation criteria and has concluded that ukraine has fulfilled all of them. the european commission has therefore proposed to amend regulation 539/2001 by adding ukraine to annex ii, which covers the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external border of the schengen area. the commission has also proposed to extend the visa requirement to ukrainian citizens who hold biometric passports. visa liberalization for ukraine is an important step that will help ukrainian citizens to reform and bring them closer to us. i am convinced that they fully deserve the right to travel freely within the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the un women's rights session is gaining momentum each year, involving more and more prominent institutions and individuals. this is linked to the fact that there is a growing awareness of the social and economic importance of women's rights and equality. this year's session was dedicated to the economic empowerment of women and we all hoped that the european parliament, which had adopted joint recommendations specifically for the session, would be heard appropriately. it is hard to find an institution in the world with a longer track record of effectively promoting women's rights than the european union, especially in terms of access to education and the labour market. despite such strong legitimacy, we are not sure what our contribution was to the final conclusions of the 61st session, in which we participated as an official delegation of the parliament. the question of the effectiveness of negotiations is important in the context of the backlash we see around the world for women's rights. backlash is a huge threat to further progress, but also to the implementation of decisions already agreed. ladies and gentlemen! as for the negotiations, i'm particularly interested in the effects of these talks on access to quality education. we know from european experience that education alone is not enough. women graduate more often than men, but they work in lower-paid occupations and lower positions. the more attractive the sector, the higher the position, the fewer women. these gaps are particularly evident in the ict sector, which is the foundation of the economy of the future. only 3% of tech start-ups are run by women. women are less likely to use the internet and online services, less likely to bank, buy and sell online, less likely to work and learn online. the internet and high technologies, which are potential tools for change in the field of equality, which could facilitate equality of opportunity, are becoming another cause of exclusion of women. the only way to solve this problem is through the right quality of education, through the right programs and policies in this area, which we write about in the recommendations. that is why it is so important to know what the outcome of the negotiations was: what were the presidency's demands in the conclusions in this area?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i pay tribute to sergei magnitsky, a brave russian lawyer who exposed the biggest tax fraud in russian history. for touching untouchables he was held in pre-trial detention, tortured, and died there. the dark revengeful face of the russian judiciary system was shown in his being convicted after death, posthumously. i kindly ask the chamber to recall his name in the resolution by accepting my amendment.
recently, there was an attempt in the european parliament to show a film that attacked mr. magnicki after his death. fortunately, that didn't happen, but it's worth remembering.
i know my rights and responsibilities, the mp has outlived his time, as have some other mps before him. i have to treat everyone equally. i'm not here to discuss the merits of the mp's speech.
blue-card question. – only one short question: have you ever heard about the clan of mr igor sechin, the president of rosneft?
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on belarus (2017/2647 (rsp)).
ladies and gentlemen! belarus is a strange country where russia has already ended and the west has not yet begun. but both the west and russia were there. alexander lukashenko is a strange dictator: one day he wants to build a common state with russia, another day he wants to get closer to the european union. today, alexander lukashenko is far from the european union, because he introduced an idiotic unemployment tax, and the belarusians are protesting against this tax. civil society is being born in belarus and we must protect it, because it is better if there is the european union in belarus, it is better if there is western europe than asia, than russia, because it is better for us to have a friendly belarus. so let's protect those protesters that lukashenko is now putting in jail. hence the draft resolution. i thank her very much and encourage her to support it.
i just wanted to let you know that we're running a little late. i therefore urge you to respect the time limit and i regret that i will not be able to vote in the blue card procedure.
the situation in belarus is undoubtedly deteriorating. i'm afraid i have to. but we must remember that belarus is not portugal - it lies where it lies, and its most important partner remains russia. we hope that the efforts of the last two years will not be wasted. let me remind you: belarus is no longer a country where political prisoners are held, efforts have been made to control plant health, air pollution, the bologna system, its implementation. i was not in favor of this resolution, but i was in favor of debate. we must take into account the fact that the deteriorating situation in belarus is not the result of the actions of politicians, but the grassroots opposition of the society to the deteriorating economic and economic situation, but also the political one. unfortunately, in the current situation, politicians are the main recipients of negative, inadequate responses from the authorities themselves. lebizhka, rymashewski, statkiewicz are affected by various repressions, primarily because they are. and that bothers me. today the european parliament is adopting a resolution in which it does not yet favour the imposition or return of sanctions on belarus, but warns the belarusian authorities that the path they took in march and the inadequate repression of the opposition and the public may end in a resolution and a return to sanctions. no one in this room probably wants this, but this vote by the european parliament today is extremely important because it is a warning.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. our main objective in eastern europe must remain the same, namely to consolidate the independence of the countries that emerged after the collapse of the soviet union. so we must first of all support the development of national identity and language rights in belarus, the revival of christian life and freedom of the church, the development of public opinion and civic activity, openness to the west and independence, even elements of independence of belarusian foreign policy. today we see that perhaps the tremors we are witnessing are a sign that belarus is entering a period of accelerated political change. in these conditions, we should remember one thing: the first of all social freedoms is the independence of the homeland, and this should determine our attitude to the authorities and to the opposition and social circles.
mr president, i absolutely agree with mr kosma złotowski, and other authors, that the reason is the unfortunate bill condemning the so-called social parasites. therefore, i am shocked that the draft resolution condemns the actions of police, which are quite normal. in every country, the police put protestors into jail sometimes. it is not our, or mr lukashenko’s, right to decide whether the police actions were exaggerated or not. instead, the resolution should condemn the bill, and so i move the oral amendment that we should ask mr lukashenko to withdraw his bill. this pressure from the european parliament would give him an excuse to withdraw this really unfortunate bill.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are all disappointed with the information coming to us from belarus. the push for this bill on free speech, which is contrary to common sense, contrary to workers' rights, blocking the media, blocking the activities of ngos, political parties, falsifying elections and pretending to work towards their democratization, finally the brutal suppression of peaceful protests that have recently taken place, must meet with the opposition of this house. after all, this is all happening after the european union - through the hands of parliament, and therefore also through our hands - has been feeding loans to belarus. it has provided financial support, lifted political and economic sanctions, because we wanted to see belarus as a serious partner that respects the agreements. trust and mutual respect are the foundation of cooperation, and if our partner says one thing and does another, then we need to adjust our plans and actions. in this context, i would like to ask the european commission whether the terms of the loans and financial guarantees granted to belarus include the possibility of suspending them in the event of non-compliance with the obligations in the area of civil rights and the development of democracy.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. since the republic of belarus gained independence in 1991, citizens have not been able to build a full democracy in their country. since 1994, the country has been ruled authoritatively by alexander lukashenko. belarusians, like other european nations, want to work, develop and become rich. the country is closely tied economically and politically to russia, and has indirectly fallen victim to the economic hardships that its eastern neighbor is currently experiencing. the reason for the protests that took place in many cities of belarus is the poor economic situation of the country and the tax imposed on the unemployed. protest is a form of dialogue and expression of social discontent, which every nation has the right to. alarming are reports from belarus of protesters being stopped by police and arrested or fined. according to the human rights ngo viasna, the total number of people subjected to various forms of repression as a result of the march 2017 series of protests exceeds 900. the belarusian opposition's aspirations to build a full democracy and a european direction of development should be supported. at the same time, the unstable political situation in the eastern region and the resulting risks must not be forgotten. support belarus in its quest for political independence and peacefully-built democracy. democracy built in a way that does not threaten the belarusian statehood and sovereignty.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven resolutions on bangladesh, including child marriage (2017/2648 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i also want to draw attention to the tragic situation of children in bangladesh. bangladesh has one of the highest rates of child marriage in the world. unfortunately, despite earlier declarations to combat this negative phenomenon, at the end of february, the parliament of bangladesh passed a law that allows underage marriages to take place in special cases. however, the lack of a definition of these cases means that the absence of a minimum age for marriage has been de facto sanctioned. there are also legitimate concerns that the new law will be used to force rape victims to marry their rapist in a misguided honor-saving effort, among other things, and in the process further deepen their trauma. meanwhile, i expect the bangladesh government to focus on protecting the rights and well-being of children and to fulfil its earlier commitments on this issue.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
high isbo! europe has enough conflicts to clash with another country that wants to pursue its own cultural policy. if the house wishes, we can debate this, but to pass a resolution, to provoke conflicts against another country, is really only to deepen the crisis in which europe finds itself. many of us are motivated by solidarity with hungary, but whatever we think about it, we should not multiply conflicts in europe. i don't think this resolution is necessary.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: you mentioned your personal experience, your trip to hungary. i would just like to remind everyone that hungary - just like my country, poland - was the pioneer of freedom in the eastern bloc countries at a time when the countries of western europe wanted to deal with the soviet union, and in universities - because today we are also talking about the university of italian or german kings marxism in all its forms. so we poles, we hungarians, we czechs, we slovaks really don't need a science about freedom, democracy, but we are happy to share our experiences, our conclusions, which come from observing the reality in your countries as well. you said something about civil society. yes, civil society is the foundation on which democracy exists, on which it functions, but civil society must of course have the appropriate structure, as it does everywhere. it cannot be post-colonial or colonial, as is still often the case in central and eastern europe. and i think you'd like to see that structure perpetuated. as for ceu, i personally have a great deal of respect for it - i think, unlike many of my colleagues here. i've personally been involved with this university for many years. it has made achievements in the field of social sciences, has brought interesting elements to the intellectual life of central europe, and there are interesting researchers working at this university. it also has a very clear ideological profile, and that too should not be hidden. she's not hiding it. but, as we know, its highly controversial founder has made no secret of his political ambitions, going so far as to want to reverse the outcome of democratic elections in some countries. i would like to remind you that the member states have the right to regulate education, especially the activities of private foreign universities. and i am convinced that in many of the member states that are criticizing hungary today, the ceu could not have been created. there are no institutions founded by george soros in germany, as far as i know, there are none in italy, there are none in france, and it's not a coincidence. and so i would say that our group is firmly opposed to any attempt to stigmatize member states without reason. but i think we should perhaps have a general debate here about the state of europe's universities, which have ceased to be places of diversity, of freedom, and have become places of conformity, of repression against those who think differently, and the best example of this is the persecution of two professors at the university of berlin, who we all know and whose example is well known, and who are not particularly interested in the colleagues in this room.
at the beginning of this parliament's term, in a debate also on hungary, the vice-president of the liberal club said that it was not really about this or that law. it's about the direction hungary is going. and then she said, as we all remember, that she hoped that with hungary - and then it turned out that with other countries too - the current european commission would be bolder and less legalistic. that's the definition of rule of law: boldly, less legalistically against states whose policy direction doesn't match. and today we have this courageous and less legalistic commission, led by mr juncker and mr timmermans. freedom is indeed increasingly threatened, but freedom will survive in europe. freedom will survive because of countries like hungary, because of countries like poland, because of politicians like viktor orban. i congratulate you, mr. president.
in writing. the autonomy of universities and the freedom of movement of academics are among the basic conditions for building a knowledge-based society. legislative changes in hungary have significantly hampered both the activities of the central european university in budapest and the freedom of exchange of staff and students. the question arises as to what action the commission intends to take to protect the autonomy of universities and whether the commission is considering the launch of a rule of law mechanism against hungary.
mr. chairman, please! on the surface, the creation of a new pillar seems interesting, but when we look closer, we see that the european union is very diverse, the member states are at different economic levels and therefore face different kinds of problems. i therefore believe that a harmonized social policy will not be a policy that can really help those in need. we need changes that will give us effective results. and i'd like to give you an example of good practice. in poland, we have been implementing the family 500+ programme for a year, the costs of which in 2017 amounted to 1.5% of gdp and which are definitely a large burden on the budget. if we were to take steps to ensure that the european union co-finances this kind of pro-natalist activity from the european social fund, we would certainly achieve a very good result. the effect of this programme, mr. president, is that 96 percent of children in poland have been lifted out of extreme poverty thanks to such a good programme. we're a good example.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. madam member, i thought you would be interested in inquiring about the details of a very good programme, the family 500+ programme, which is a clear, strong support for polish families. if you really wanted to know the details of this programme, you would understand that the european pillar of social affairs could support families, not only in poland but also across the european union. it is worth following this example and i strongly believe that social policy and family policy should be the responsibility of the member states.
mr. chairman, please! employment policy is undoubtedly the most important and effective element in ensuring a high standard of living for the citizens of the union. only a well-functioning economy can provide sustainable, high-quality jobs that are the basis for stability and prosperity for european families. however, the role of social policy should not be dismissed altogether. these two areas are interrelated and it is the union's task to set certain minimum standards in this area as well. maternity, paternity and parental leave, long-term care for older people, work-life balance and a host of other issues are everyday concerns for millions of our citizens. i am convinced that the union should be involved in developing good solutions in this area. however, attention should be drawn to the wide variation in national social welfare systems, which depends on many factors and has developed over the years and based on the specificities of individual member states. therefore, the principle of subsidiarity should be observed with particular care in the work on the european pillar of social rights.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. one of the basic principles of european integration is to work together to continuously improve the living conditions of citizens. by bringing together the potential of 28 economies and the human resources of 28 countries, the european union is able to offer its citizens economic and social benefits that individual countries could not generate on their own. i would therefore like to emphasise that i have supported the european commission's concept of a pillar of social rights from the outset as a framework and guidelines for the necessary reforms at national level. the commission's proposals and future actions must respect the principle of subsidiarity and the fact that the european union still faces differences in the level of economic and social development. in creating the european pillar of social rights, we must act with extreme caution, prudence and responsibility. remember that good quality jobs and high levels of social protection come from economic growth, and growth requires access to finance, flexible labour markets, a well-educated workforce and less red tape. we must secure these elements first! in this context, i welcome the commission's proposals on reconciling work and family life and the social consultation launched. all workers, regardless of their contract, should be provided with adequate social protection and written information on the terms of employment. however, future solutions must take into account the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. social policy is an important element in reducing disparities between citizens. this is why it is so important to support all active forms of cooperation, especially in today's dynamic and changing societies and in the current labour market realities. concern for employment and decent working conditions undoubtedly requires a strengthening of social dialogue and intensified cooperation with the social partners. in the european union we are faced with a diverse social structure and different characteristics of the labour market and, consequently, with different social needs. this is why decisions affecting the raising of social standards should be analysed and taken primarily at national level. the exchange of experiences between countries in areas such as the protection of workers' rights and the development of family policy will strengthen cooperation and lead to constructive action at national level. in areas as sensitive as citizens' lives, eu-level initiatives in the area of social rights should be based mainly on the coordination of cooperation. the full potential of employees can be realised by ensuring a proper work-life balance. however, the commission's initiative on guardianship rights still needs careful and comprehensive analysis.
in writing. i support the active forms of social cooperation proposed by the european commission to achieve a work-life balance for eu citizens. i also welcome the proposals to strengthen social dialogue, strengthen cooperation with the social partners, and care for employment and working conditions. the european commission's ambition to extend the circle of persons entitled to exercise the right of guardianship to relatives of dependent persons is also noteworthy, but needs careful analysis. i believe that, outside the european union, the member states also have an important role to play in raising social standards. progress in this area can ensure further deepening of cooperation within the internal market and effective implementation of the growth agenda. the effective functioning of the european pillar of social rights will be ensured by the exchange of experience and good practice in the development of family policy, migration policy and the protection of workers' rights.
in writing. the constitutional referendum in turkey, which took place on 16 april, was challenged by the osce-odihr observer mission as not creating a level playing field for both sides of the campaign. it is particularly worrying that voters have not been given objective information on the key aspects of the reform. the very even result in the referendum shows the deep divisions in turkish society. the council of europe's venice commission has expressed serious concerns both about the content and implementation of the constitutional amendments. they will be assessed in the light of turkey's commitments as a member of the council of europe and the osce and as a candidate country for eu membership, which is thus bound by the copenhagen criteria on democracy and the protection of fundamental rights. we also expect the turkish government to seek dialogue with all political and social forces in the country and to reach the widest possible consensus on the implementation of the changes. the eu's current challenge is to support the turkish people in their quest to maintain democratic standards in their country.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's structural reform support programme 2017-2020 to boost economic growth and raise living standards is an important document that has the potential to become an instrument for smart growth and better use of eu funds. i believe that the successful implementation of the programme requires effective coordination with existing technical assistance programmes at the level of the european union and the member states receiving the assistance, and the active participation of regional authorities in this coordination. i would also like to encourage the exchange of good practice between member states in implementing structural reforms, as there is no universal recipe for the effectiveness of these reforms. in conclusion, i would like to ask how the commission intends to achieve synergy between the various support programmes and what will be the specific features of the system for implementing the structural reform support programme and the question of the voluntary nature of the technical assistance provided at the initiative of the member states?
instead of revolution, we have evolution, but that's good. it is good that the regional funds have been maintained, it is good that the funds for local authorities have been maintained. they're the best spent there. and what i want to talk about today is the creative industries, investments in education, investments in culture itself. and you have to remember that these are the investments that bring not just splendor, but real financial impact. and i want to emphasize that in this perspective, which we are now in, the restrictions on investment in this area are particularly painful. first of all, there are limits on the amount of funding for individual investments. and you have to remember that the cultural sector, the creative industries, is not about investing in highways, which is also necessary. these are investments that are different each time, unusual, requiring more flexibility. and here i am today.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 27 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr mircea diaconu, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european year of cultural heritage (com (2016) 0543 c8-0352/2016 2016/0259 (cod)) (a8-0340/2016)
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, it's very good that this is the year of heritage we have, that he is. secondly, it's great that it has financial guarantees - modest, very modest, but they are. thirdly, it is good that these funds are not from the creative europe programme but are extra funds. we're at the point where we've achieved half of our success. the other half is the realization itself. i would like to ask you, firstly, not to disperse these funds too much, secondly, to find a common denominator for these projects so that this year will be noticed, and thirdly, i am pleased with the statement by the commissioner that the main target of these funds is to be the youngest generation. in my opinion, it is the one that can bring the best investment effect associated with the year of heritage. i am very pleased with this project and i am convinced that it is worthwhile to add funds to promote europe's common material and spiritual heritage.
i'm not going to let you do this. the european year of cultural heritage is intended to strengthen the sense of european identity and also to bring tangible economic effects. promoting cultural heritage can bring economic growth and create jobs, but as a member of the committee on development, i believe that cultural heritage can also play a key role in the union's external relations with other countries, especially in responding to the destruction of cultural heritage in conflict zones. promoting culture also contributes to better integration of migrants and to combating extremism, populism in europe. this was also recognised among them in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, reaffirming the importance of cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue as overriding principles of sustainable development.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner oettinger, president lehne, it is a pleasure for us to be here, and thank you for your comments of appreciation. it is my duty. i also believe that the efficient use of eu funds in full respect of the principle of sound financial management is of utmost importance, and the delivery of good results is particularly important also given that it is on this basis that the public forms its perception of actions financed from the eu budget. yesterday i was chairing the general affairs council for cohesion ministers in luxembourg and we were actually discussing, in the presence of the commission, how to make eu-funded projects more visible to our citizens. on 28 february 2017, my colleague minister scicluna had the honour of presenting the council’s recommendation to grant discharge to the commission, to the committee on budgetary control, and i believe tomorrow you will confirm the vote of the committee on budgetary control and grant discharge to the commission. i am glad that the european parliament and the council are able to agree on this important issue. in its recommendation, the council outlined a number of elements which, from our point of view, should be followed up and implemented by all actors and without delay. all those involved in the management of eu funds need to assume their responsibilities in full, and yes, that includes the member states. the council urged the commission, and the member states as well, to strengthen their mutual cooperation and stressed also the importance of avoiding errors in the first place. it also called on member states to continue cooperating with the commission and to give priority to increasing the quality of first-level checks in order to prevent or detect errors and correct them prior to declaring expenditure to the commission. yes, we must take into considerations that controls entail also a cost. therefore a balance has to be found between the risk of error and the cost of control and audit, thereby focusing on better controls rather than on more controls. on the one hand, prevention is always better than correction. hence preventive measures by the commission, such as interruption and suspension of payments, should be strictly applied. on the other hand, there is also a need to continue applying financial corrections and recoveries rigorously to protect the eu budget. in this context, the council regrets that not all actors involved made full use of the available information to prevent, detect and also correct a significant proportion of those errors. this could have substantially reduced the estimated level of error across all chapters of expenditure. nevertheless, we must also recognise the efforts made and actions already taken by the commission and also by the member states. the council notes with satisfaction that the court of auditors finding that non-compliance with public procurement rules decreased, compared with the preceding years. this is also a reflection of the efforts made by the commission, as well as the member states, to address weaknesses in this area. i would also like to point out that the council considers the simplification of rules to be crucially important in order to achieve a lower level of error. in this regard, the council also calls on the commission to identify weaknesses in control systems, to analyse their costs and the benefits of possible corrective measures, to take or propose appropriate actions, such as simplification of the applicable provisions, improvement of the control systems, and also to redesign the relevant programmes. in this discharge procedure, the council did not only look at the past, but it also looked to the future. it called on the commission to prepare and publish, on an annual basis, a long-term and transparent forecast covering budgetary ceilings, estimated payment obligations and needs until the end of the current mff, as well as capacity constraints and potential decommitments. moreover, the council also called on the commission to provide on a regular basis clear, exhaustive and timely information about the needs for the payment appropriations and the availability of the funds in the annual budget. achieving results and focusing on performance is of paramount importance, especially in a context of budget discipline and scarce resources. the council invited the commission to continue its efforts in providing consistent and coherent measurements of performance at all the levels of management of the programmes in order to enable their meaningful assessment against the objectives set. finally, i would also like to say also a few words on the work done by the european court of auditors, which is highly appreciated by the council. we also welcome the court’s analysis of the errors and of the classification and distribution of corrective measures implemented in the very same year, 2015. we appreciate the court’s work in assessing the results achieved by the eu budget, and we also consider it an important additional element of the annual evaluation of the sound financial management of eu funds. we therefore encourage the court to continue increasing the focus on performance in its future annual reports. it is obvious that we are still far from the overall aim of an unqualified audit opinion from the court. the council therefore reiterates its wish to see year-on-year improvements in the financial management systems, and also in the estimated level of errors across all policy areas. it should also be clear that the level of error estimated by the court – and this was also highlighted by previous speakers – is not a result of fraud, inefficiency or waste of funds per se and the pressure on the european union and the national finances is still a reality in the current economic scenario. this will require a more careful management of eu funds from all the institutions and stakeholders, as well as better forecasting of long-term funding requirements. i therefore conclude by emphasising that eu money should be used to achieve results that could not be achieved as efficiently or effectively by other means. we have to send a clear signal to the european citizens, to our taxpayers, that the eu funds are being used in a responsible and accountable manner.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, in particular the rapporteurs, the honourable members of the council, mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen! budgetary policy is a continuous process from the first draft, through the consultation and adoption of the budget, the implementation of the budget, the clearance of accounts, the audit and control by the various democratically legitimised bodies parliament, council and court of auditors to discharge, which is the focus today. i thank you for the very objective, transparent and constructive consultation which i have had the opportunity to witness in the council and parliament in the last few weeks. i believe that this budgetary control can convince citizens that our parliamentary democracy deserves trust and that the result of a thrifty and largely efficient use of budgetary resources also has a confidence-building effect. the discharge report for the financial year 2015 makes substantial recommendations and suggestions for improvement. i would like to say that we have a lot to learn, especially as the commission, which proposes budgetary priorities and is essentially responsible for budget implementation. we are currently implementing the 2017 budget, preparing the 2018 budget, and your recommendations and the discharge report are making a meaningful contribution to the implementation and preparation for next year. six points i would like to make on behalf of the commission. firstly, we want to continue to do everything possible with budget figures and programmes to implement the priorities of the european union, to keep the europe 2020 strategy in mind and to make an important contribution to the european union's labour market, infrastructure, quality of life, security and competitiveness through budgetary policy. in your report you propose to examine critically the question of seven years/five years. i'm willing to do that. it is in times of uncertainty - when brexit will trigger a transformation period - that it might be worth considering how we move into the next decade rather than seven years, five plus five. i shall be back with you on the multiannual financial framework in the course of the next few months. the subject of shadow budgets was mentioned. i take this seriously because the issue of the supplementary budget, the shadow budget alongside the main budget, can affect, jeopardize and complicate the sovereignty of a parliament, including the council. i want to distinguish: on the one hand, shadow budgets always have the smell of indirect new debt. this is not normally connected with it. i know from national and regional subsidiary budgets that the objective of indirectly describing debt limits is to be achieved - this has practically nothing to do with it at european level. secondly, it is of course in our interest - yours and mine as commissioners - that the community method should be the main instrument of budgetary policy. we are therefore also considering which of the secondary budgets can be integrated in the next mff. you know that we have at least announced this consideration for the development fund. on the other hand, i am quite frank with you: if there is a ceiling of 1% of gnp, i would prefer, in the interests of our citizens, to have money in the secondary budget to have no money at all. the question of how far subsidiary budgets can be integrated therefore depends very much on how the council and parliament see the overall dimension of budgets over the next decade. in addition to what can be incorporated into the main budget on the basis of treaty law, there are tasks and instruments - i mention the efsf, the esm and others - which could not be linked to the budget of europe by purely treaty law, and which therefore automatically, without any change in the treaties, must be subsidiary budgets and instruments in the interests of stabilising the euro area and in the interests of fulfilling other tasks. we must then answer the question of which financial instruments are the best. i am going to say this explicitly: for me, cohesion funds, budget programmes and cash are still the rule. and the financial instruments such as the juncker plan are useful and necessary additions, but they cannot replace budgetary resources. we shall return to this question in the next financial framework and with the extension and further development of the juncker plan. i want to expressly commit myself to the objective of an eu budget focused on results. and we will continue to examine here how to get closer to the definition of the objectives - what do we want to achieve with budgetary programmes and how to measure the achievement of the objectives or the failure to achieve them - with future budgets and with comments on budget figures. i believe that here too, meaningful cooperation with parliament and the european court of auditors can help us to help each other. we want the best possible control, the best possible control, not more controls. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament, and i am sure that the european parliament will be able to do so in the coming months. as i said, budgetary policy is a continuous event, a round-the-clock event. that is why i believe that today is a good intermediate step, a constructive mediation by parliament. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs and the committee for their excellent work.
president of the court of auditors. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister and president of the council! i thank you for inviting me to participate in the closing debate on the discharge procedure for the financial year 2015. i am very honoured, not only because it is the second time since i left this house that i have been able to come back here to speak to colleagues, but also because i believe that the court of auditors is honoured to do so and that we are very happy to contribute to this debate. the discharge procedure is a good opportunity to look back and see what we can do better in the future. the rapporteur has already raised this in many points in her introductory speeches. i stood before you in october and said that our most important task at the moment was to regain and strengthen citizens' confidence in the european union project. the principle of this has not changed. the key is that citizens can see that the european union is trustworthy and transparent when it handles taxpayers' money, that it does so prudently, that it has clear objectives, that the funds are used efficiently and that the promised results are achieved. i would like to express my sincere congratulations to the rapporteur, mr zeller, and his colleagues, and to the cont committee, chaired by mrs gräßle, on their reports. the discharge decisions presented here contain important points which support our recommendations as the court of auditors and our conclusions. we are very pleased about that. the court is working hard to contribute to the efficient use of budgetary resources, as reflected in our recent opinions on the budgetary order and the mid-term review of the mff. our work shows the importance of reliable management, monitoring and control systems, which are respected by all parties involved: the commission, the member states and the external auditors. i would like to expressly endorse what mr borg and the commissioner have said, namely that we should focus on improving the quality of controls rather than on the quantity of controls. the key is to ensure that we carry out effective and efficient quality controls. in our annual report for 2016, which is not discussed today but is currently being worked on and due to be published in september, we will also take up these points and make special reference to them. i would like to make a few brief comments on some of the current priorities of our institution. our annual report is continuously being updated in terms of quality. we will focus more - and this has already been mentioned - on performance aspects, simply because performance is as important as compliance and it is - i repeat - of crucial importance to the citizen whether what is done is actually done correctly and efficiently. we will also, of course, try to improve our communication. this means developing further close cooperation with parliament, continuing at all levels. this is of course particularly the case with cooperation with the committee on budgetary control, but also with cooperation with the other committees in this house and with the conference of committee chairmen. we have streamlined the preparation of our work programme this year so that we are able to take better account of the priorities of the various committees of the european parliament. we have received a total of 59 proposals this year from the conference of committee chairmen, most of them, of course, from budgetary control, with suggestions on what we should do. we will be considering and considering this very, very carefully and i think we will end up, as in the past, with a work programme where the majority of the proposals we are going to deal with, the issues we are going to deal with, come from the centre of this parliament. europe is at a crossroads today. strong forces are pulling at our union from within and without, and are endangering the process of european integration. the idea of europe must be defended on many fronts. but the solution cannot be to tackle one crisis after another. fundamental reforms are equally important. so my request is: let us use the coming spending cycle, as well as the negotiations on the withdrawal of a member state, as an opportunity to improve the way we raise, spend and manage public money. this has also been mentioned in the resolutions and in the comments, for example, by the commissioner. in this context, i also welcome the way in which the role of the court of auditors has been addressed in two recent european parliament decisions on institutional adjustment of 16 february and on brexit of 10 april. i can assure you that we as the court of auditors will continue to contribute to the success of europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. president wieland, may i point out that we are simply working together. mr president, commissioner, mr lehne, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. i have been on the same committee since i started in the european parliament, and i have been dealing with discharge procedures. i would like to stress that i highly appreciate this process of discharge, particularly as regards the european commission. we didn't have any red areas, basically. we had a very clear presentation of this attitude to efficiency, to effect, to the purpose of the expenditure. we rarely even used the word 'costs', we talked about funding, i want to emphasise once again the effects achieved and let us remember that there is a more balanced picture of efficiency. and for that i thank the commission and the european court of auditors very much. i'm glad you're minister borg on behalf of the council. this has never happened. our objections, however, are to the records relating to the martin schulz case.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, speaking generally, i deeply agree that, for the 22nd year in a row, the budget as a whole has not received a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors. payments are still materially affected by error. going into detail, i strongly remark that the biggest issue, as far as the discharge procedure is concerned, is the lack of cooperation on the council’s side. in 2009, the council refused to cooperate in the discharge procedure as implemented by parliament, failing to provide the necessary information asked for in written questions, and did not attend debates on the implementation of its own budget. answers to our questions are essential for the discharge procedure. we need answers about the main weaknesses found by the eca which, among others, are the high amounts of appropriations being carried over from 2015-2016, particularly those on property, plant and equipment, the delivery delay on the europa building, and unclear building policy. the question of job tier balance, which should remain an important element of resources management, particularly with respect to the member states that have acceded to the union in 2004. member states which acceded to our union in 2004, or later, are still under-represented at the higher level of administration, in managerial posts, for which progress is still awaited.
mr. zdechovsky is coming! i have not been in the chair since the beginning and i do not know whether mr wieland has announced it, but i would like to make the following request: it is 10.12 p.m. and in addition to this point there are three other items on the agenda for this evening's sitting. i'm asking you not to use the blue card because we should be finished with our meeting before midnight. and secondly, the reports we are discussing - both the court of auditors' and the individual rapporteurs' - seem clear, unambiguous, and that is why i propose that we do not use the blue card!
i'm closing the debate. let me make the following observation: we are already generally positive and we have a high degree of agreement on the numbers, the facts, the level of error. i understand that there is a certain discrepancy in political judgments, but that is always the charm of parliament. the vote will take place on thursday 27 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on fisheries by ulrika rodust on the management of fishing fleets in the outermost regions (com (2016) 0340) (a8-0340/2016).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 27 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. – i would like to extend my support towards those who are addressing the biggest challenges for outermost regions. the remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate, economic dependence on a few products are permanent features that severely restrain outermost regions’ development. those are problems that we in europe do not fully understand because they don’t exist in here. the common fisheries policy is designed for the particular needs of the continental europe. the reality in outermost regions is completely different. but we have tools that can be used to provide for the adoption of specific measures in their regard. solution that is needed now is to allow local fishermen communities to renew and modernise their fleets. safety or rather the lack of safety on board is a predominant problem now. i therefore support an amendment aiming at allowing, (obviously) under strict conditions and in line with the objective of sustainable fishing, public funding for modernisation of these regions' artisanal and traditional fishing vessels. the need for restructuring and development is pressing therefore, modernisation of the fleet is necessary, most importantly, for safety reasons.
the next item is the report by lola sánchez caldentey, on behalf of the committee on development, on the eu flagship initiative on the clothing industry (a8-0138/2017)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we live in a time when the world is divided into a rich north and a poor south. the majority of the clothing production cycle is located in poor, developing countries. that's very good, because millions of people have a chance to work, to earn, to support their families. it is estimated that one employee supports about eight to ten other people. the downside is that these countries often fail to comply with laws, standards, and regulations on human rights, labor rights, health and safety, environmental protection, and so on. we, as the european union, which values these values, are obliged to ensure that these values are respected in these countries and in the companies that produce in these countries.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. every purchase of clothing, regardless of where or how it is made, affects the people who make it and the environment in which it is made. the clothes we wear have come a long way, and they're not just transportation miles, but people and their work. hard work, with ill health, with low pay, but it's still the work that these people do for a living and a living. i am against the violation of human rights, labour rights and environmental standards, and therefore i support the wording of the binding human rights clauses and the social and environmental clauses. but let us not forget the competitiveness of our companies. and with their initiatives in places around the world like bangladesh, we can see real change in the safety and health of workers. of course, the efforts of companies and producing countries must go further to ensure that workers have the best possible working standards and, of course, better pay. i am glad that the rapporteur and i have tabled four compromise amendments. i hope that the amendments and the report will be adopted tomorrow.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 27 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by maria noichl, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the state of play of agricultural land concentration in the eu: how to make it easier for farmers to access land? (a8-0080/2017).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i thank mrs noichl and her colleagues who, with this report, have, i believe, made an important analysis of the ownership and use of agricultural land in europe and have also documented concerns that we share as the commission. because land plays an important role in our economies, but it also has a socio-political function. land ownership - agricultural land, forestry land and real estate - has a stabilising effect on our citizens, who use it to document their knowledge and responsibility for the european union, our regions and our municipalities. i think that the conclusion to be drawn from this, in the further development of our common agricultural policy and in what will be in the budget for the next few years, is: how do we enable the next generation of farmers to remain in the profession and to see a future, and how do we create a future for small farmers, with all the concentration in the food industry? we have a conflict of interest here. firstly, of course, european law provides for freedom of investment. everyone, big and small, can invest in goods. eu citizens in their own country, in another eu country and third parties are also invited. and vice versa - and this is primarily a matter for the member states - they have the possibility of taking measures against land concentration and thus against land speculation, in order to preserve rural communities and also to put agricultural areas under a certain protection. they must comply with european law. in recent years, we have - and will continue to - consult member states and, with them and the regions, have also tried to identify ways of bringing such safeguards and restrictions into line with european law and ensuring that they are neither directly nor indirectly discriminatory. we believe that on the basis of your report we should continue these discussions with the member states and i therefore look forward to further discussions with you, but also with our member states. i shall come back to this as the commissioner with responsibility for the budget in the context of the next financial framework and the reform of our common agricultural policy.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 27 april 2017.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! today, once again, as we listened to guy verhofstadt, who is representing our parliament in the negotiations with the united kingdom, we learned that it is better for britain - perhaps tomorrow - and france - to be outside the union than for hungary or poland to want to change the european union. this attitude shows that the unity of europe has become a mere phrase today. europe is not a community of values today. our values are faith and christian civilization, our homeland, national tradition and independence, our family and the right of the weakest to live. and we will never give up on those values. but while europe is not a community of values today, it could have been, and i hope it can be, a community of destiny. but this requires respect and solidarity, which is something that is denied every day by the ideological passion of the current eu leadership.
mr. chairman, please! i was going to talk about the international situation, but in view of the speech by my colleague mark jurek, i'll add a few words on that subject. let us be clear and put a stop to the i: the values imposed by the european union are the exact opposite of european values. european values that have ensured our dominance in the world european culture has been a model for the whole world. and the opposite values that the european union advocates, they're the ones that are causing us to be invaded by colonizers from other countries, europe is dying, there's no economic development, there are no children being born, because these are exactly the opposite values. and we will defend european values against the values of the union. for example, the abolition of the death penalty is a european union value that is contrary to european values. the principle of 'who doesn't work, don't eat' was a european value in contradiction to the eu's, and so on and so forth. i could trade you 50 of them. we must defend europe from the union.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
member of the commission. madam president, mr president, dear werner hoyer, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be here today for a useful and indeed important debate on the activities of the european investment bank. the commission welcomes the two reports from parliament which we are considering this morning and i would like to thank in particular the two rapporteurs, mr georgios kyrtsos for the committee on economic and monetary affairs and mr nedzhmi ali for the committee on budgetary control, for their contribution. of course, i am here this morning to say how essential and particularly strategic the partnership between the commission and the eib is to us. it is the key to implementing policies which have become major in the union, particularly in the areas highlighted in your reports. i am thinking, for example, of financing infrastructure, support for smes, employment, the fight against global warming, support for sustainable transport and the union's external policies. all this shows how much this bank, which is our bank, has grown, how much it has expanded. its achievements in each of these areas are, in fact, proof that europe is useful and that it responds to the needs and concerns of our citizens. it is the europe of the concrete that is being built. i regularly visit our territories in europe to highlight them and to tell what europe is doing and where it is going. the eib is always present. this is particularly important in the difficult context of the rise of populism that we are experiencing. that is why i share your views on the reports. the eib must continue its efforts to support investment in the union and we stand by it. this will probably start with even more support for smes. we fully recognise the need to strengthen the eib group's support for smes, in particular for the financing of micro-enterprises. the eib group may need to take greater risks in order to finance smaller enterprises. the commission shares parliament's view on the importance of the programmes implemented under the european progress microfinance instrument, which should serve as a basis for the design of future instruments under the european union's programme for employment and social innovation. this too requires our cooperation. the commission supports the recommendation that the eib, the commission, national, regional and local authorities, together with the national development banks, whose role is also to be commended, should strengthen their cooperation in order to create even more synergies between the structural funds and the other eib financial instruments. the structural funds can in particular contribute to the objectives of the investment plan for europe, the juncker plan, and complement the support of the european fund for strategic investments. we also recall that the eib, in close cooperation with the commission, has implemented important initiatives to promote youth employment and we know how much this is a priority for our people. the skills and jobs investing in youth programme thus covers a large number of public and private business projects. finally, the commission supports - and we have worked extensively together on this in the framework of the paris agreement approach - the eib's ambitious climate strategy, which is in line with the objectives of the cop21 paris agreement, both in terms of energy and climate. the focus should be on activities, sectors and products that have a significant impact on achieving these objectives. we must promote new, innovative financial instruments which will enable us to raise private finance, in particular through green bonds. we are working closely with the eib and other stakeholders to develop new financial instruments that will facilitate sustainable mobility. for example, to develop this market, to reduce the use of fossil fuels, the commission and the eib launched in december 2016 together the cleaner transport programme. as regards external actions, the current decision on the eib's external mandate underlines the need for strong coherence between the bank's activities outside the union and union policies, programmes and instruments. in the current context of refugee and migration flows, the economic resilience initiative (ire) needs to be complementary to the new commission initiative to implement an external investment plan. the initiatives are therefore converging. the eib's external mandate allows the ire initiative to increase its capacity to intervene in the mediterranean neighbourhood and the western balkans. the new european fund for sustainable development, the edf, is based on blended finance. it is aimed at sub-saharan africa, the countries in the union's neighbourhood. the ambition of the new guarantee of the edf fund is clearly to go beyond existing instruments by supporting innovative models of private sector financing, developed by partner financial institutions. the commission can only welcome the ever closer cooperation with an eib that covers ever wider fields, because it is in line with our ambitions, which are shared ambitions, for more investment in europe and investments that are capable of preparing our future in its various dimensions. the support of parliament, your daily work, is useful - i think werner hoyer will share my view - in promoting the role of the eib in pursuing the objectives of the union, particularly in tax matters.
president of the european investment bank. – madam president, members of the european parliament, commissioner moscovici, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to be here today to talk about the 16th annual european parliament debate on eib activities, particularly as this year two reports have been drafted on the financial activities of the eib in 2015. i would like to thank the rapporteurs mr kyrtsos and mr ali, as well as their colleagues for their thorough work. i notably appreciate the explicit support of both reports for the eib’s work as a catalyst for financing solid, sound public and private long-term investments, as well as the acknowledgment of the bank’s important role outside the european union. but issues raised in the reports are also relevant for the future so, if you agree, i will not limit myself only to 2015. investment is recovering in the european union, but large differences in regional and sectoral investment performance remain, and we need additional initiatives and projects in order to address this investment gap. taking into consideration the current political and economic climate, it is unlikely that in the future we will have more, or even the same amount of resources available not only to support investment, but in fact for eu priorities in general. in addition, public funding and traditional instruments such as grants will not be able to solve all the existing and new challenges europe faces. we must therefore find intelligent ways to maximise the efficiency and effectiveness of available public resources, namely by crowding in private investors and making full use of the capacity of financial institutions, consequently leveraging public money and making more funds available for the real economy. i insist on the wording ‘the real economy’, because this is where we work. we are not a monetary institution, we are a real economy institution, and this is why i believe our work matters. i am firmly convinced that this calls for a further use of financial instruments. the eib group, as the eu’s bank, stands ready to identify the areas where financial instruments can complement and probably release eu grants and to continue to implement such instruments for the benefit of the entire eu. consequently, we vest our hopes in the ongoing revision of the financial regulation and 15 sectoral legislative acts, the so called ‘omnibus’, which aims inter alia at simplifying and streamlining the implementation of financial instruments and budgetary guarantees. to give you one concrete example, once adopted the omnibus will facilitate the essential combination of efsi with european structural and investment funds, which might simultaneously improve the absorption of esi funds and bring more efsi financing to some countries. as highlighted in the reports, the eib’s activities have contributed to sustainable growth and employment in europe and to stability in our neighbourhood. i am particularly proud that the eu bank continues to be the world leader in climate-related finance, as well as of the effect our financing has on young people. in 2016 alone, we financed 46 education projects to the tune of eur 3.7 billion, improving conditions for 890 000 students. also last year, eib group financing sustained 4.4 million jobs in smes, which is where most young people find work, and since its launch in 2013 the eib’s skills and jobs ‘investing for youth’ programme has provided more than eur 37 billion towards projects that support jobs and better skills for young people. i strongly support what commissioner moscovici has just said about the need to continue our engaged work in the fight against youth unemployment. these concrete results show the impact of our work on europe’s future. allow me to give you another concrete example where our innovative and financing products make an impact, in this case in a country hit by the financial crisis. two weeks ago we activated the trade fund facility 2.0 that will benefit greek smes and mid-cap companies? this facility will enable greek banks to provide trade and export finance services to greek smes and mid-cap companies at a time when no commercial lines with private banks are available. through this facility the eib acts as a secure bridge between international and domestic banks, supporting trade and export finance and therefore having a direct concrete impact on the business of smes and, as such, in the real economy. talking of innovative instruments and in view of the forthcoming parliamentary reports on efsi implementation and efsi 2.0, i would like to take the opportunity to mention efsi and how it can finance investment, trigger growth and the creation of jobs. efsi has been a success so far. to date, we can be proud that almost eur 184 billion in total investments have been mobilised – that is to say 58% of efsi’s initial target of eur 315 billion. we are very well on track. over 4 000 smes are to benefit from enhanced access to finance thanks to efsi support and we have already approved 22 investment platforms, most of them being the result of a very fruitful cooperation with national promotional banks. let me emphasise that in quantitative terms efsi is not business as usual for the eib. as a matter of fact it has changed our dna. two out of three promoters of projects which benefit from efsi are new clients to the bank, and this clearly demonstrates how much efsi has changed the eib group. i am aware that additionality, as we have just heard, is central to efsi and that we need to do more to communicate and demonstrate it better, based on concrete examples of projects. eligible projects rest on market failures or sub-optimal investment situations. they are only selected if they would not have been financed by the eib group in the same period or to the same extent without efsi support, as specified in the efsi regulation. another important aspect is geographical balance and the latest breakdown shows that efsi favours many smaller eu countries and those hit hard by the economic crisis. i sometimes still read statistics from the very first beginning of the efsi implementation which show a different direction, but nowadays it can be clearly said that efsi projects are particularly where efsi projects are needed most, and we are very proud of that. in any case i can assure you that we continue to work on this, working with a regional and local focus to facilitate efsi support across the eu. the central role we play in efsi does not mean that we retreat from the rest of the world. on the contrary, out of the eur 84 billion of eib group financing in 2015, over eur 8 billion went outside the union, directly contributing to the implementation of eu policies and standards. in recent years, the world has become more integrated and more challenging than ever before. those external challenges and the eu’s objectives beyond its borders are best met through a stronger and more integrated eu response, ensured by enhanced coordination and joint action between the european commission, the member states and the eu bank. the eib’s external lending mandate is indisputably the most effective and efficient eu financing instrument and a powerful multiplier of eu external action. its guarantee fund and portfolio structure allow the eu bank to support investment of around 30 to 40 times the eu budget demand provisions for the guarantee, thereby delivering concrete results and impact in third countries at minimal cost to the eu budget. we are very grateful for the open and cooperative attitude of parliament on this issue, especially for ensuring that sufficient resources are attributed to this instrument, which will allow the eu bank to continue its global level activities on behalf of the union. also looking to the future, we should establish a clear complementarity and harmonisation of the different instruments that the european union employs externally, namely: the external investment plan the commissioner just mentioned; the external lending mandate of the ecb; the resilience initiative for countries affected by migration, and even the g20 initiative for africa. overlaps should be avoided and coordination should be demonstrated. in relation to the eib’s economic resilience initiative which comes on top of our normal lending to africa and the neighbouring countries, a brief reference, to let you know, is that this is already there on the ground and is delivering results. both reports stress the importance that the eib continues to be a financial institution of good practice. i can assure you that we put very strong emphasis on being a leading financial institution when it comes to issues such as due diligence, compliance, good governance, transparency and accountability. we are continuously in contact with other international financial institutions, ngos and relevant authorities to ensure that we apply best banking practice. europe’s citizens expect and deserve parliamentary oversight for their bank, and i say this with pleasure as a former parliamentarian. last year i had the opportunity to address the plenary, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgetary control. there were also numerous hearings with other members of the bank’s management committee and services. we are ready to even expand our close cooperation with the european parliament. in preparation for this plenary debate we also sent a state of play on the recommendations tabled in the previous report to the rapporteur, mr pirinski, the respective committee secretariats and the meps who were closely involved in the drafting process. the reports we are discussing today suggests that this oversight consists of a more structured exchange, and although in principle i have no objection to discussing the idea i believe we must discuss how future arrangements might work. we are ready to engage in this dialogue. let me therefore conclude by assuring you that the eib stands ready to live up to its institutional responsibilities, both operationally and in terms of reporting, and we welcome our regular exchange with this parliament on our activities and their impact on the ground. thank you very much, and i am looking forward to the debate.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. president hoyer! the transport committee is very positive about the report. the committee on transport also welcomes the achievements of the european investment bank in this sector, particularly in the field of infrastructure, in the development of new transport technologies, in the efficient use of transport and in the promotion of public-private partnerships in the field of infrastructure. it's a very interesting shape. what is the most obvious? the european investment bank, the european fund for strategic investments and geographical imbalance, high concentration, dominance of the old eu countries only 8% of the funds spent between 2013 and 2016 were new countries. what does it give birth to? increasing distance. it also creates political discontent in the new states. it's just not safe. we want to emphasise the advantages very clearly: having the european investment bank, we can diversify the sources of financing, introduce new financial instruments, and therefore the resources of the european investment bank, the fund for strategic investments, the guarantee instruments together allow us to optimise the financing of important projects.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, president hoyer, we are discussing the report on the annual report of the eib for 2015, and let me say from the outset that this has been another successful year for the european investment bank. in my opinion, the bank has been particularly successful and efficient in two areas. first, the implementation of the european fund for strategic investment: as you said, after a difficult start, this has indeed been a success story. the second area is microfinance, which, indeed, with limited funds has been able to sustain a large number of jobs in the european union. the focus of our report here in this discussion is how to increase investment, because investment is something which is very much needed in europe. in this context, let me raise two points. the first is that more attention should probably be paid to private-public partnerships. i think this is an important instrument to mobilise more resources, and is certainly a promising avenue to increase investment across europe. the second point i would like to raise is geographical distribution, which i find still imbalanced. much more money goes to the ‘old’ member states, whereas the ‘new’ member states account for less than 13% of total funding in 2015. i think we need a more balanced approach, especially as new member states offer attractive investment opportunities in the union, and that can be financed.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the group welcomes the report on the financial activities of the european investment bank, and appreciates its role in particular in lending and blended finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. however, i see two aspects of the eib's activities that require special attention. the first is the need to increase the involvement in financing greenfield investments in areas of the so-called new union countries with a high share of agricultural land and land lying fallow. one of the leaders in the use of this pool is poland, where the number of greenfield investments has grown in recent years at an average annual rate of 9%. however, this increased eib involvement should also be accompanied by an overall increase in the geographical coverage of projects implemented under the european fund for strategic investments and by ongoing expert training for its potential beneficiaries. companies from the so-called new union often face a relatively low level of know-how in sourcing available investment funds and cannot compete with their more experienced western neighbours, such as the uk the largest beneficiary of recent efsi investments. i am convinced that the combination of a stronger commitment to investment from the ground up in the new union countries and an intensification of expert training in sourcing it will be of major importance for the effectiveness of the union's cohesion policy and for the equalization of development opportunities between the member states.
madam president! the structural reform support programme 2017-2020 is an important element in supporting the development of the member states. it is part of the union's system for coordinating economic policies. it is true that the budget for this programme is not large, because it is not even 143 million euros, but it must be remembered that this programme is only intended to complement other eu programmes, and so summa summarum i think it will work well towards achieving the objectives we are seeking. one of the important principles of this programme is the principle of partnership. it is designed to involve regional and local authorities in the reform process and i think that is very important.
the 2017-2020 structural reforms will have an important partner. this partner will be local government at two levels: the commune level and the regional level. the amounts allocated are not large, but it is important that this regulation brings to an end a certain debate about the large amounts of money allocated to regions and local authorities. i am glad that in today's vote we have finally accepted this next perspective, in which local and regional authorities will be this key, important partner. in the previous discussion, there were many comments on the financing systems of banks, etc., because indeed in many respects the market should decide what these investments are used for. but local government is also a market, local government is the entity that is most sensitive to the local community, and i am very pleased that with today's vote we are ending this debate
madam president! perhaps never before has a programme to promote europe's cultural heritage been more important and needed than it is today. we live in a time when, instead of appealing and trying to stand on the same side as europeans, movements are growing that want to divide and divide us. i therefore believe that the european year of cultural heritage is a very important initiative and should promote cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue in europe. the aim of this programme should also be to raise awareness of the history of europe, of the civilizational values that europe has given to the world, so that we europeans - as i said at the beginning - will always be on the same side.
we have a huge inflation in europe of all kinds of anniversaries, jubilees, years dedicated to a particular event. almost every weekend, there is a ceremony to honor someone, something, or an event. if there is a european year of heritage dedicated to material and spiritual heritage in 2018, it must be remembered that 6 million euros for the whole of europe is more than modest. that is why, on the occasion of this vote, i would like to make a special appeal to the governments of the individual countries to strengthen the european year of heritage with their own resources, their own initiatives, and also their own ideas and projects, which will give a common denominator and show the roots of europe, show our heritage, show the value system, its changes, but also allow the promotion of european heritage beyond its borders.
madam president! the european year of cultural heritage is a good opportunity to remind us that europe existed for hundreds of years before the european union was created. europe emerged after the fall of the roman empire, when, during the dark ages, st. benedict illuminated its space with his monasteries. and it is of this europe that st. john paul ii said in gniezno at the meeting of the presidents of central europe that this river contains many tributaries, but its mainstream is christianity. there is yet another reason why we need to remember our inheritance. we see very little of him in our european parliament building, in both of our buildings. we don't see charlemagne, or the holy queen jadwiga, or the ecumenical councils, or the battle of warsaw, when our grandfathers saved the world from bolshevism. it is time to remember that europe is a reality that we are here to serve, that we did not create it, that we can only protect it.
madam president! i will always defend those budget lines that are dedicated to young people, whether it is education, or creative markets, or scholarship programmes like erasmus+. it is important, however, that the funds allocated to the youngest, the youngest on the market, the youngest in education, are spent not only rationally but in their interests. i have repeatedly called for the elimination of arrears, both those due and those which have arisen as a result of various barriers, including bureaucratic ones. i am pleased that this report, which ends 2015, shows a reduction in commitments required specifically for young people, whether it is the 'europe for citizens' programme, the 'creative europe' programme or programmes such as 'erasmus+'. i hope that a similar report will be produced in 2016.
madam president! we're talking about a very important industry, because it employs tens of millions of people around the world, and especially women, who in the market, especially in poor developing countries, have a very big problem getting jobs. this industry is affected by various pathologies related to violations of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection, health and safety, etc. it is therefore important that the european union, as the leader in the fight for civilized values, should introduce them in those countries. but we must remember that these processes must be evolutionary, not revolutionary, because if we were to demand from these countries immediate standards, such as those in europe, we could achieve the opposite of what we intended.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. financial abuse, together with all forms of illegal activity, which cause damage to the budget of the european union, must be effectively combated. this is only possible with the right tools and the right tools can be selected with the right knowledge of the situation. the european union's budget is designed to improve conditions in all areas of life. any damage to the budget constitutes a serious threat to the achievement of this objective. the commission's 2015 report on the protection of the union's financial interests shows that the amount of irregularities reported as fraud amounts to almost eur 640 million per year. unfortunately, it is likely that the actual number is even higher, as not all cases are detected and reported. the union must protect taxpayers' money as effectively as possible, but there are many obstacles to this. one is the lack of cooperation at different levels, and the other is the fact that not all countries are implementing the rules on time. there is also no uniform system for collecting comparable data from the member states. the report which is the subject of today's debate draws attention to a number of issues. i would like to recall only the most important ones. these include the amount of revenue lost due to the vat gap and intra-community vat fraud and the fact that only two member states collect and make available statistics on revenue losses caused by cross-border vat fraud. the increase in the number of irregularities reported in the three agricultural funds for at least five consecutive years is a worrying phenomenon. it notes the sharp increase in irregularities in the common fisheries policy. there is also concern about the increase in irregularities and abuses in cohesion policy spending. analyses of this phenomenon by the commission and the member states in accordance with the eto recommendations could help to reverse this worrying trend. similarly, the reasons for the high level of fraud in relation to research and technological development and innovation in enterprises should be explained. the lack of uniform reporting rules in all member states is one of the main problems identified. the absence of this distorts the real picture of the situation. another major problem is the lack of a system for exchanging information between competent authorities to prevent transnational fraud. they also require special supervision of derogations from the applicable procedures for the use of funds for refugee assistance. ex ante and ex post controls are undoubtedly used to contain the negative effects, and more and more irregularities are being detected. it is worth emphasising that prevention is easier than recovery. the entry into force of a directive criminalising counterfeiting and the putting into circulation of counterfeit money is to be welcomed. when discussing the protection of the european union's financial interests, we cannot ignore the role of whistleblowers and the need to protect them. therefore, it should be noted that the relevant internal rules have been introduced in the institutions of the european union. investigative journalism is also important. the report also provides a comprehensive overview of olaf's work, taking into account the results achieved, the time taken to conduct the proceedings and the analyses prepared. thank you for your attention and i look forward to the debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the commissioner and the colleagues who took part in this debate. i must say that, given the complexity of the issue and the fact that it is a matter of great concern to politicians, i am full of hope, because, regardless of the political differences that divide us, this concern for the state of the budget, for the possible effective elimination of all negative phenomena is a common concern, and this always gives hope for the effective fight against everything that harms the proper functioning of public life. i agree with the hierarchy of priorities presented by my colleagues here the reporting principles, the issue of the european public prosecutor's office, control, olaf are indeed the most important aspects of this report. as i said, i trust that our cooperation will lead to the fact that the phenomenon will be minimized and the least amount of money will be lost, because the level of trust in the european union, in the european institutions, in european politicians also depends on this. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again the counter-rapporteurs, who have indeed made the work on this report extremely fruitful, very interesting and very harmonious.
madam president! the european qualifications framework is a forward-looking and ambitious instrument that promotes the professional mobility of citizens between countries and facilitates their lifelong learning. the framework places particular emphasis on learning outcomes in three categories: knowledge, skills and competences. the new priorities of the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training up to 2020 thus enable learners and workers to better showcase their skills, regardless of where they have been acquired. but unfortunately, the devil is in the details. how to apply comparable mechanisms and recognition of qualifications acquired in, for example, third countries? how will the new system of interdependence between ects, the european credit transfer system, and ecv, the european system for the accumulation and transfer of vocational education and training results, work? how can we define competence clearly? and so on and so forth. all this is done on the very important premise that there can be no question of infringing the competences of the member states in the field of education and employment policy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank the commission for its decision to revise the european qualifications framework. this framework has not been fully implemented until today, despite being published almost six years ago, and it is worth asking why. the european qualifications framework was created in response to the urgent need to enable comparisons between qualifications and diplomas. if such an important and urgent goal is not being achieved, there must be a reason, and i believe that reason lies in the tool. we have seen the difficulty of translating the european framework into more concrete national frameworks, and in this resolution and in the votes today we hear that it is simply not enough, that there are new challenges, that there is a question of recognising qualifications acquired outside the formal education system. for example, we have about 40 percent of the professionals in the it sector today, very high-end professionals who have acquired their qualifications just outside the formal education system, so there is a need. there's also a need to understand what diplomas and certificates mean for people who come from outside the european union and come here to work, so yes, this change is very much needed. i think that these ideas, to have diplomas and certificates issued in europe automatically indicate the level to which they correspond in the european qualifications framework, would go a long way towards making the framework more popular and more recognisable to the average citizen and to employers. i also consider the requirements of the new skills agenda for comparing national qualifications frameworks to be very important. it is very important that these national frameworks are compared, analysed and exchanged for good practice.
madam president! the european qualifications framework for lifelong learning, which was established almost a decade ago, was an important step towards greater transparency in the recognition of qualifications, which was to help facilitate the mobility of workers within the common market. the proposal for new council recommendations in this area shows, on the one hand, that the european qualifications framework is applied in all member states, but on the other hand, that convergence in the description of similar qualifications has not been achieved, which makes it much more difficult to transfer and mutually recognise them. i believe that member states should seek to further harmonise their national qualifications systems and frameworks to common european standards. it is equally important to promote the use of the framework among education and training institutions and employment services to ensure greater visibility. only then can they become a universal standard. i hope that the proposal for new council recommendations will prove helpful in this respect.
mr. chairman, please! i fully support the initiative of mrs borzan to call on the commission to take action against food waste. safe and healthy food is a priority, but the economic aspect cannot be overlooked. 88 million tons of food worth 150 billion euros a year goes to waste. nor can it be ignored as a priority on the ethical agenda when there are huge problems of malnutrition and hunger in the world. it is estimated that 50 percent of the food wasted comes from european households. it's the consumers, we're making this mess. we just don't understand the concept of food preservation. we don't know the difference between the expiration date and the use-by date, so we throw it away just in case. taking the initiative and taking broad indicative action is the task of the plan which the commission should present. and then there's the vat. it is unacceptable that donors who give food to people in need should be charged vat. and it's not an excuse that some countries have found a way around the law. we need to normalize this.
mr. chairman, please! we use energy to produce our food, we use renewable resources, and perhaps the biggest problem is that since we are able to produce roughly the same amount of plant and animal products every year, we think we can afford to be thrifty with them. food production uses water, emits carbon and affects the environment, but on the other hand, food waste is primarily an ethical issue. we cannot afford such wasteful resource management. food cannot go to waste. and we don't even have a complete statistic of how much food waste we produce in each country. so we have to develop a new approach, and i thank you for this initiative. when you look at the scale of food waste, it's important to note that these resources can be used to produce not just food, but other products. these are raw materials that can also be used for industrial processing. it has been said many times in parliament that biofuels should not be made from agricultural products because it is competition for food production. but the question is, if the scale of waste is so great, is there not a need for some reflection? and finally, we should think about how to use processed food when it's ready to eat, and whether or not to give it away, as this good samaritan initiative calls for, to charities, like food banks.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in the debate on reducing food waste and increasing food security, i would like to stress that the report's call for a 50% reduction by 2030 is worth supporting, especially since 88 million tonnes of food are currently wasted every year, worth almost eur 150 billion. in this context, the amendment proposed by the rapporteur to the vat directive, which would explicitly allow member states to exempt food donations from vat, and the possibility of financing the collection and transport, storage and distribution of food donations from the european fund for aid to the most deprived from the european fund for aid to the most deprived, is of particular interest. moreover, given that western european countries have at least five times the rate of food waste as central and eastern european countries, the main focus on tackling food waste should be on highly developed countries.
in writing. food waste affects the entire food supply chain and we should all take appropriate steps to reduce it effectively. cooperation at both union and member state level is necessary given the complexity of the problem and the need to coordinate waste, food safety and food information policies, as well as economic, research and innovation, environmental, agricultural, education and social policies. i think that the most important issue raised in this report is the regulation of food donations to people in need, and in particular the proposal to allow the tax exemption of food donations, because the outdated rules that have been in place so far do not really meet the needs of the modern world. at the same time, i hope that measures to reduce food waste will go hand in hand with improving food safety, which must remain a priority.
relocation as a collective effort must be carried out wisely and responsibly, taking into account the different degrees of preparedness of societies to accept refugees, in order to ensure the safety of europeans, to prevent asylum seekers from being subjected to attacks of aggression and to prevent populists from having a pretext to criticise brussels. therefore, participation in relocation should be voluntary for member states, but states must fulfil their voluntary commitments: prepare infrastructure, staff, educate their communities accordingly. this is what the sicilian municipalities do, based on two principles: voluntary and proportional. member states should fulfil the voluntary commitments they made earlier, so i don't understand why the government in poland didn't take in 7,000 refugees, including children. the previous government of eva kopacz had committed to accepting this number of refugees. a country of 40 million people can really afford it. that is why i am proud of the initiative of the authorities of many polish cities and towns, who have expressed their willingness to accept refugees, even if it was five or six people. if a small community is willing to take care of one family, let them do so. it's a scandal that the government doesn't support it. so not everyone in my country is insensitive to the misery and suffering of others. our civil society is still doing well, even though the pis government is trying to restrict its freedoms. caritas and the episcopate also offer help by organizing humanitarian corridors. the pis government, which is a cabinet of catholic values, doesn't even count on that. and finally, let's not forget that relocation should not be seen as the key to solving the immigration crisis. it is just one of the many instruments europe has.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. the lord will send! you have rightly pointed out, as many speakers have, that the european states simply do not agree - some openly, others practically - with this mechanism of forcible dispatch of migrants across europe. you say solidarity is a compulsion. do you really think that replacing the idea of the european union with the idea of the euromaghreb union is worth triggering another crisis in europe?
madam president! i would like to remind you that the temporary relocation mechanism has not been supported by all member states. the relocation was established by the home affairs council to circumvent the principle of unanimity of member states in the european council. and that's the original sin of this decision. the slovak and hungarian governments have brought their case to the court of justice of the european union, invoking the principle of proportionality and institutional balance, and we in the european parliament are not even waiting for the court's judgment, as if it had already been delivered. maybe we should show more respect for the court. relocation is also rejected by a significant proportion of the populations of those countries that have supported it. it is based on coercion, both against the displaced and those who are to receive them, who also have their rights, which the union seems to forget. that's why the relocation mechanism isn't working and won't work.
in writing. the head of the catholic church, pope francis, has been calling for active aid to refugees for months. it calls on all catholics to show support for those who have fled the atrocities of war and not to turn their backs on their tragic fate. poland is a predominantly catholic country. 87% of poles consider themselves religious. the ruling party, led by pis president jarosław kaczyński, very often refers to christian values and flaunts its religiosity. yet, their attitude toward refugees is filled with hateful rhetoric designed to win cheap applause, thus promoting xenophobic or even racist attitudes. how can we interpret jarosław kaczyński's words that refugees spread vermin and other diseases? the same hypocrisy and cynicism is presented by the most important politicians of the law and justice party, including prime minister beata szydlo, minister of internal affairs mariusz błaszczak and president andrzej duda. like other psl members, i don't agree with the fixed amount of refugees being relocated. at the same time, i do not agree with the refusal to help mothers with children, orphans and minors who are in greece and italy. of course, no one can be forced to come to a country, but i believe that poland, in the name of human and european solidarity, can and should welcome those who need our help most.
mr president, over the last decade we have talked mostly about unheralded crises and emergencies, but we cannot use these words when coping with globalisation because it is a long-term challenge and opportunity. we must look at the big picture when working on the future of europe. today our duty is to persuade european citizens that we must resist our own european backlash against international trade and international trade agreements and be involved in shaping globalisation. a lot of answers to the globalisation challenge are to be given at national level. i am thinking here of education and training and of coping with inequalities and exclusion. industries based on the new drivers of growth must go global to be competitive, but we also need an educated discussion on our role as europe in shaping globalisation. only then can europe deliver as the best possible vehicle to make globalisation work for us. a big question is whether a future eu—us global leadership on rules—based, open, fair trade in a multilateral framework is still possible. we must work on it. but of course, globalisation is much more than trade. neither europe nor the us can profit from global uncertainty or instability or weak global governance that is not relevant, efficient, transparent and accountable. let me conclude by saying that sustainable globalisation can happen only through cooperation among outward—looking partners.
in writing. globalisation is one of the most important challenges facing europeans. and while it has contributed to economic growth in the eu, the benefits are neither automatic nor evenly distributed. this has resulted in, inter alia, the relocation of industry and an increase in unemployment in the common market. the eu should seek to create new, fairer rules for operating in the global marketplace: address tax avoidance, state aid and social dumping. a fair tax system should be established whereby global corporations cannot avoid paying their fair share of taxes where the profits are made. effective trade defence instruments and reciprocity (balancing) in trade relations could help in this process. strengthen social protection and put emphasis on education and training to help citizens adapt to changing global conditions. european industry and, of course, the workers employed in it must also be better protected. the eu should be a guide and actively promote trade based on fair rules. we have to make the rules, not be bound by the rules that others make.
in writing. europeans need high-quality education and skills to cope with a rapidly changing economic and social reality. continuous development of acquired skills and competences is now crucial to finding and keeping a job. to achieve this, our actions should focus on improving access to, quality of and effectiveness of education and training. we must ensure that all citizens have opportunities for professional and personal development at all ages. our policies need to be geared towards empowering citizens and their capacity to adapt to the changes brought about by globalisation and digitalisation. in particular, we should focus on ensuring equal educational opportunities for all. the fight against youth unemployment and the strengthening and rapid implementation of the european youth guarantee, which should be extended to young people up to the age of 30, are also key. next, budgets for key education programmes such as erasmus+ and europe for citizens should be increased to achieve the objectives more effectively and to promote equal opportunities for young people. we must not forget the values that unite us. in this context, it is important to develop european volunteering and to define its legal status, taking into account the rights and obligations of volunteers.
in writing. it seems that we have not sufficiently taken account of changing external conditions in the union. the world is now developing independently of europe, although we have not been able to accept this for a long time. the new white house host's approach to european affairs has changed, among other things. although it has become more friendly than campaign rhetoric has indicated, it is certain that it will not be the same as under previous presidencies. the processes of globalisation and the functioning of the world market require the establishment of certain rules for trade or the operation of financial institutions, which would create a certain order, because otherwise uncoordinated actions will lead to chaos, as exemplified by the recent economic crisis. this is why eu diplomacy, including economic and trade diplomacy, is so important. it seems that even the president of the united states is unable to stop globalization. despite the us withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership (tpp) and the suspension of talks with europe (ttip), international trade continues to liberalize, as evidenced by the successive trade agreements negotiated by europe with, among others, mercosur (argentina, brazil, paraguay and uruguay), japan, mexico, australia and new zealand, and the entry into force at the beginning of this year of the trade facilitation agreement (tfa) within the world trade organisation (wto).
president of the african union commission. mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the opportunity you have given me to address your prestigious assembly representing the peoples of europe in all their diversity. the africa-europe partnership, strengthened since our first summit in cairo in 2000, has reached decisive milestones in its exciting adventure. i am convinced that the summit which is being prepared for next november will be a new stage in our march towards a brighter future for our peoples. the africa-europe partnership has a beautiful history, where shadows and lights have crossed paths in the past, but today it is proud of its vivacity, dynamism and promises of a future with a blue horizon. successive milestones in a series of ports, from one side of the mediterranean to the other, egypt, greece, phoenicia, rome and carthage have for centuries woven the web of an indissoluble relationship between our two continents. colonization, over the course of two centuries, has brought our cultures and civilizations face to face, so different in their spirituality and structural dogmas, but complementary in their humanism and their essential and undying inclination to freedom. the colonization of africa by european powers was certainly a controversial moment in our common history. yes, there was domination, exploitation, enslavement, slavery itself, this abominable insult to human dignity whose traces will not magically disappear. famous poets have immortalized this affliction. african and european thinkers and intellectuals have interpreted and explored this segment of our history. some politicians have made the trial of colonization and the hymn to the glory of decolonization the paradigm of their liberating doctrines. all of them have rightly learned the lessons so that this will never happen again. however, i have not come here today, as a historian, to stir the knife in the wounds and even less to be tempted by the illusion of a construction of a continental destiny by pouring out the exaltation of a past that has passed. i simply wanted to emphasize, at the beginning of my speech, the indelible scars left by this legacy of yesterday, as it is forged and inscribed in the collective memory of the african peoples. the story of our relationship, like any story, ardent and passionate, has had only shadows. it is also - fortunately - a story of enlightenment, fruitful exchanges, mutual cultural and spiritual influences, enriching, invigorating and emancipating. this meeting has, over the centuries, contributed to the legacy of civilization that is yours, that is ours. ladies and gentlemen, our international environment is recombining at a surprising and no less worrying rate. new powers are emerging, seeking their place in a world that has become multipolar. new challenges are emerging, for which the only hope for a lasting solution lies in collective and solidarity-based action. in this restructuring of a geostrategic universe, which is also highly globalised, europe and africa seem inevitably destined to reach a strategic agreement, grasped by the vital evidence of their shared destiny. their history, their different but complementary values, their geographical proximity make each of them an extension of the other, inciting and committing them to it constantly, with strength and reason. ladies and gentlemen, in order to flourish and bear fruit, the partnership between the european union and the african union must be based on solid principles and must cover all areas in line with its multidimensional scope, its visionary ambitions and its global challenges, which are constantly expanding. mutual respect, equality, freedom and solidarity are the unalterable benchmarks and milestones of a strong, lasting, mutually beneficial relationship. africa has brought together its intellectuals to devise and adopt an ambitious agenda for the next 50 years, aimed at building an integrated, prosperous and peaceful africa. the agenda for this year's meeting includes some key issues, such as the africa-europe strategy, which we are celebrating together this year on its tenth anniversary. agenda 2063 is now the banner of the african union. it is the roadmap for the future and the foundation for our international cooperation and strategic partnerships. although africa has been and remains the scene of many deadly conflicts, the main ones being in the horn of africa, the sahel, the lake chad basin and central africa, the elements of its renaissance are now tangible. it is rich in minerals, fisheries, vast arable land and, above all, the vitality of its population, the majority of whom are young. good governance based on a bold and determined vision of african integration, trade incentives, the removal of customs barriers, innovative initiatives in clean agriculture and renewable energy, and technologies and services are key levers of the desired renaissance. its economic growth rate has remained sustainable over the past decade. our ambition will be supported by a ruthless fight against impunity, corruption, waste and misappropriation of public funds. in this respect, our priority is the implementation of the relevant instruments adopted by the competent bodies of our union and the respect by the member states of the commitments contained therein. the reform of the african union decided by the january 2017 summit is a real chance for our rebirth in that it resolutely demands that we take charge of the organization ourselves. as such, it is called upon to strongly support the positive trends observed. our continent is now combining all its forces to reduce and eradicate the social tragedies it faces through drought, famine, armed conflict and human rights violations. these crises and conflicts place the twin issues of peace and security at the top of our priorities. the goal of silencing weapons by 2020 is one we are pursuing with determination and commitment. the fight against terrorism, jihadism and radicalism is at the heart of our ongoing commitment to peace, security and stability, to which we devote unremitting and vigorous efforts, both in prevention and in post-conflict management and reconstruction. we highly appreciate the eu's multifaceted support in this fight, including through the peace facility. ladies and gentlemen, all current and prospective expertise indicates with certainty that africa is the region of the world that suffers most from the degradation of the natural environment and climate change. the devastating effects on fauna and flora reduce - and sometimes irreversibly destroy - the very possibility of life in large areas of the continent. the horribly disconcerting paradox here is that africa, the least polluting continent on the planet, is the one that suffers the most from climate change. in this context, is it not superfluous to recall that africa is only getting a fair share of the international efforts and sacrifices to counter or at least alleviate the universal threat posed to humanity by climate change? this is one of the areas of our partnership which will now have to be better understood, better dealt with and better prioritised. this requirement is closely linked to the opening of wide corridors to the african and international private sectors. it is also welcome that european trade with africa has increased by 50% in recent years, bringing the total volume of european private investment to around €200 billion per year. enterprise is the main creator of wealth, jobs and economic prosperity. its crucial role in our economic and social development will now be given a prominent place in our policies and strategic partnerships. our deep awareness of the imperatives of a new economic governance encourages us to look to the future with a view to a continental free trade area. this awareness makes us particularly attentive and sensitive to the ideas of private investment and the bold invention of a marshall plan for africa, concepts appropriately championed by the german g20 presidency. from this prestigious and honourable platform, i express our firm support for his steps in this direction. african youth make up more than 60% of the population. women make up more than half of the current population of africa. youth and gender are in our strategic vision cross-cutting concerns that water all our programmes conducted alone or in partnership with other actors. the question of the emigration of whole sections of our young people in europe poses a double challenge: to those who are blindly throwing themselves into the paths of shipwreck, and to those who, unprepared, find themselves overwhelmed by these waves of human beings. the challenge that all these phenomena pose to us has no solution, except one: to develop africa and reinvent a better future for our youth on the continent. here our partnership finds a field, as yet untapped, of exceptional community of interests and mutual benefits. the diaspora, considered in our vision as the sixth region in africa after the north, south, east, west and central regions, occupies an important place in our agenda. its multifaceted contribution to the continent's development draws on its intellectual and financial resources. ladies and gentlemen, i have emphasized in the preceding paragraphs the areas of partnership which are more or less common to us. they are the essence of the message you have the honour to hear. however, i would be incomplete and my ardent desire to speak to you with an open heart and without any pretence would remain unsatisfied if i did not raise the fundamental question of the relationship to be established between the universalism of our partnership and its relativism. many questions, once asked, reveal nuances and sometimes even differences between europe and africa. it is not in my nature, nor in the political philosophy on which the heads of state or government of africa have elected me, to preach the conflict of civilizations, cultures, religions. my credo in this field is dialogue, the search for consensus, mutual discovery, understanding, solidarity between civilizations, cultures and religions. i'm not advocating building walls to protect against the other, but building bridges to socialize and commune with that other. (applause) i would like to thank by building bridges, we cannot preach uniformity and negate differences. our diversity is the driving force of our movement, our life, our dynamism. is it not unfair, shameful and harmful to evade, through diplomatic abuse, this fruitful diversity? yes, africa has its own views on a number of issues: the issues of international criminal justice and universal jurisdiction, the relationship between justice, peace and reconciliation. it is clear that the often-used slogan 'african problems, african solutions' cannot be used as an alibi or a pretext to legitimise political deviations or other errors. but it is still a burning issue. i welcome the remarkable vigilance and mobilization of african civil society in almost all areas of our cooperation. perhaps, honourable members, you will find that i have overloaded the train of our partnership. i hope to protect myself from my own depravity by the famous formula of jules verne: "nothing is made great except by an exaggerated hope". ladies and gentlemen, i invite you to consider that you in africa have an open heart, an alert mind and firm hands, industrious but generously outstretched. i thank you for your consideration of this invitation and, moreover, i would like to thank you warmly for your kind attention. thank you. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
thank you, madam ambassador, we have noted that and we will discuss it with mrs mogherini.
if you will allow me to save you time, i shall not read the titles of the reports, because we have them printed out, and as soon as the name of the rapporteur is mentioned, we proceed to vote.
i hereby close the vote.
mr. chairman, please! the e-government development plan 2016-2020 is one of the most important plans for the civilization development of the european union. it is difficult to imagine the development of an electronic society without e-government. however, there is a major problem, both at union level and in individual member states. in the private sector, electronic communication is already common and it is difficult to imagine the development of the economy and entrepreneurship without electronics, while e-government is stunted. it is very important that this priority continues to be pursued and the objectives set out in the e-government development plan for the european union are achieved.
mr. chairman, please! in his longing for poland, the famous poet cyprian kamil norwid wrote: "to the land of those who raise the crust of bread from the ground by respecting the gifts of heaven... i miss you, lord. i therefore also note, among other things, the moral imperative to combat food waste by all means and i have tabled amendments specifically concerning the need to improve the quality of food. although i voted for the report, it is a pity that it did not take account of a problem which i believe is extremely important, especially given the high rate of waste in households. the report touches on a number of important aspects, but one important aspect that has not been taken into account is the poor quality of food, especially processed food, food produced with pesticides, preservatives and other additives, antibiotics, and often adulterated food, which, after being transported thousands of kilometres, is simply unpalatable and quickly even suitable for consumption becomes inedible.
mr. chairman, please! the efficient management of resources is a civilization challenge today. and that includes respect for food. in the european union, on the other hand, we waste almost 90 million tonnes of food a year. the highest, 53%, is in households, but it is not better at other stages of the food chain, e.g. in processing (19%) or in catering (12%). however, given that most food is wasted in households, the main emphasis should be on raising awareness among citizens, developing consumer awareness. another issue is the ease of doing things for those who could share, but for example, they face a tax barrier. i am thinking here of the vat directive. changes are needed to allow tax-free donations of food.
mr. chairman, please! the customs union is one of the main pillars of the european union. however, the law is complex and the procedures are very difficult. this limits the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises to a certain extent - i am thinking here of cross-border activities - and unfortunately facilitates the illegal activities of criminal enterprises. it is therefore necessary to amend the rules and procedures, including the introduction of electronic solutions. but it's not just the rules, it's not just the procedures that matter. it is also important to strengthen cooperation between the customs administrations of the member states. equally important is what was raised in the document, namely the strengthening of cooperation between the customs administration and the companies. if these tasks are done, perhaps we will have better results in this area.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
mr president, after six years of unbearable suffering of the syrian people, of violations of human rights and humanitarian law, possible genocide, syria needs a lasting negotiated ceasefire. unfortunately, after failures of ceasefire agreements until now, we have the right to be sceptical also about current initiative as elaborated in astana for de-escalation zones. there are many loopholes and inconsequences there, and beneath the thin veil of diplomatic nitty-gritty there is the aim to support the murderous assad regime. we need credible initiatives. also we need an enhanced role of the eu with other nato partners.
mr. chairman, please! this war was terrible from the beginning, but we have seen its dynamics, we have seen what it leads to: the destruction of social peace, the destruction of christian life, the launching of a terrible wave of immigration towards europe (not only from syria, by the way) and finally the involvement of the great powers. what we're really dealing with today is not syria's ties to russia or iran, but the direct presence of russia, iran, turkey in this country. and all this is happening in a situation where every day - as many colleagues have said - thousands of people are suffering. we must end this war as soon as possible. the only strategy that is right is to support the actions of staffan de mistura and to achieve a pragmatic peace as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing today the european union strategy for syria. i would remind you that six months ago parliament adopted a resolution in which, in paragraph 15, we demanded respect for the rights of ethnic and religious minorities in syria, including christians. we know that the situation of christians is a tragic one, and i am surprised to see that the strategy presented by the council last month does not mention this problem at all. in the six areas outlined, where it ensures, inter alia, that the union will continue to support the syrian opposition, promote democracy and freedom of expression, the council does not address the situation of christians in that country who are being abducted, tortured and killed. and if only because the founding fathers of the european union were christian democrats - schuman, de gasperi, adenauer - more attention and concrete action should be focused on these issues.
madam president, as we just heard, 15 years ago there were about 2.3 to 2.5 million christians in iraq, and today there are about 200 000. in lebanon we have one million christian refugees from syria. this is an official number, the unofficial number is twice as many. two-thirds of christians have left syria. are they safe in lebanon? hardly. their future is uncertain, to say the least. all in all last year, as we also heard today, about 80 000 or 90 000 christians were murdered throughout the world. the number was down by half in comparison with the previous years. a success? i would not say so. all these numbers are terrifying. so why is the reaction of the eu and the entire western world so inadequate? one would think it is the west that should defend christians because christianity is a vital part of our civilisation. without christianity, we would not have existed. it is our sacred duty, as christians, to defend christians. if we do not defend them, no one will. so why are we not doing so? one of the reasons lies in deep anti-christian prejudices. in europe, christians have been an object of increasing discrimination, and one would hardly expect that this hostility to european christians could result in a full-bodied defence of christians elsewhere. the fact that this meek reaction by europe can be explained does not make it less shameful.
i'm not going to let you go. i'm sympathetic to what you're saying. i'm going to the hospital. it's good that we're having this discussion. the european union, or europe in general, is indeed christian, but at the same time we are a continent, we are a highly tolerant community: we welcome immigrants of all faiths, including muslims, we allow them to practice their religion here, and we should expect the same from the countries of the middle east. i think we should do everything we can to prevent the region from being de-christianized. and from this point of view, i wanted to support what mr legutko said: lebanon is an example of a country where christians and muslims coexist. lebanon now has almost as many immigrants as it has citizens. let's pay attention to this country, let's help, because i think that christians in the middle east have a right to expect help from us, and we have an obligation to help.
madam president! according to open doors, 2016 was the worst year in the past quarter century for the persecution of christians around the world. according to other sources, four out of five people killed for their faith are christians. of the ten countries that have the worst persecution of christians, nine are islamic countries. all of these facts, and many more, point to what is essentially a systematic ethnic-religious cleansing and genocide. yet the post-christian west and post-christian europe are reluctant to deal with this subject. western politicians avoid identifying christians as victims, specific victims, of persecution. they prefer to talk, like mrs mogherini, about diversity or, like some of my colleagues, about religious freedom, about tolerance. even parliament - so eloquent when it comes to muslim immigrants to europe - is reluctant to address the issue. just to recall this morning's debate. it is difficult not to associate this with the fact that in parts of europe and also in parts of europe christians are facing increasing hostility and discrimination.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the almost three decades of humanitarian crisis in somalia have also seen the displacement of over two million somalis, most of whom have sought refuge in neighbouring countries in the horn of africa, including kenya, and in dadaab in particular. the trilateral agreement between unhcr, somalia and kenya provides some possibility for returns due to the improvement of the political, stability and security situation in somalia, which is undoubtedly far from perfect but which forces people to return to their country of origin. the kenyan authorities have argued that the closure of the camp is due to the situation there and the recruitment of new members by terrorist organisations from among the people living in the camp. that's a good argument for what's going to happen in may. although the kenyan court decision and the closure order were unconstitutional and discriminatory, the dadaab situation illustrates very well the complex interconnections between refugee issues and the challenges of border management and stability building. i think the global and regional nairobi action plan adopted in march of this year is a powerful statement that refugees who choose to stay in a host country should have access to employment and services, and the ability to move around. it should be stressed that returns to somalia, if any, must be in accordance with international standards, i.e. voluntary, safe and respectful of human rights. the union should allocate resources from the trust fund for africa to this end, and use it to support bottom-up projects that improve the quality and accessibility of basic services.
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 may 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy by soraya post, tanja fajon, elena valenciano, knut fleckenstein, piero antonio panzer, on behalf of the s&d group, ulrika lunacek, rebeca harms, heidi hautala, on behalf of the verts/ale group, dennis de jonga, malin björk, eleonora forenza, marisa matias, helmut scholz, stefan eck, cornelia mercia, ernst kyllönen, rina kari ron, marina albiol, gabriele zimmerman, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mariana schaetje, on behalf of the ecl group, and damian panzer, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the council's guidelines for the treatment of persons with a disability in the czech republic (oj l 267, 18.7.2017, p.
thank you, commissioner, especially for your words about our duty and our role as the european parliament.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 may 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the situation in moldova (2017/2689 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, media and political pluralism, quality journalism, combating corruption and russian propaganda are the best ways to ensure the european direction of moldova. a clear signal should be sent by us to chişinau, and as soon as possible, that urgent action in all these areas is needed and is a prerequisite for our further financial support to that country. unfortunately, the situation is very grave and there is much disinformation in that country, taking into account the fatigue of society, and its disbelief in the authorities. we have to take our responsibility to really enhance the democratic consolidation of moldova.
mr. chairman, please! i've not only been to moldova recently, but i've been there a few times. i had relatives in the higher echelons of moldovan society and i can tell you that the romanian mentality is that the money is just theirs. when i was in moldova, people thought that the only way out was for putin to bring some order. but all the money that the union gives goes away and doesn't go where it should. the attempt to bribe people with money usually ends sadly, because first you bribe people, then you threaten not to give them the money, which causes people to stop liking the european union and it's hard to be surprised. generally speaking, it's about morality. what we need to do is not give money, but give money to those who contribute to the development of moldova's economic prosperity, that is, not to politicians.
a few years ago, moldova appeared to be a leader in the region, open to reform, on the way to the union, successfully introducing visa liberalisation, which brought mutual benefits. like any young democracy, moldova has its good times, its great times, its threats, its mistakes. the essence of responsible policy is to enhance development opportunities and reduce risks. today, unfortunately, there is a cloud of threats to the freedom of ngos and the independence of the media, to the efficiency of the government in achieving reform goals, to transparency and decisiveness in the fight against corruption and the threat of oligarchy, to the independence of the judiciary, to the model of electoral law, its clarity and honesty. with concern for moldova, i want to say: return fully to the path that leads to the european union and its values. i hope that the last dispute over the electoral law will be resolved not authoritatively, but in accordance with values. i believe that before the second reading of the electoral ordinance, the comments of the venice commission will be carefully analyzed and implemented and that this second reading will take place on the basis of social consensus with all forces. i have my fingers crossed for a strong, smart, european moldova.
in writing. moldova has been making progress towards european integration for many years. citizens of moldova, one of the poorest countries in europe, are demanding better living conditions and an acceleration of the pace of political change in the country. although moldova joined the european neighbourhood policy in 2004 and signed an association agreement with the european union 10 years later in 2014, many key issues in moldova remain unresolved. there are strong signals from opposition politicians and independent media that moldova is not respecting the principles of democracy. the country has a problem with maintaining its territorial integrity due to the ongoing territorial disputes over transnistria. the commission has also assessed the situation of the moldovan authorities in the light of the recent developments in the energy sector. in combination with the near total dominance of the moldovan gas supply system by russia's gazprom, there is a fear that moldova is exposed to energy blackmail by russia. russian influence is also evident in the media sector, where most programmes come from russian stations and broadcast anti-european material. in order for moldova to take a decisive step towards europe, it is necessary to stop the corruption that is blocking the country's economic development. however, first, citizens and the government must clearly declare their full support for european democratic values and apply them in moldovan public life.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! i would like to thank mr karim very warmly for his rich and recommendatory report. the constitutional affairs committee shares most of his diagnoses and recommendations. the point is that we must make the principle of subsidiarity and the related principle of proportionality more effective than they have been so far. the recommendations therefore need to be adopted, the eight-week deadline for national parliaments to express their views extended, a green card to be considered, and a red card, because the yellow card is in crisis, it is rarely used and even when it is used the commission does not always respond to the arguments of the national parliaments. the key is real political dialogue and the commissioner is right to declare that this initiative is being applied effectively, but this also means being prepared to have the commission actually back off when the national parliaments are right in their dialogue with it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i want to thank my colleague karim again. this is an example of always excellent cooperation, showing that calmly and without any special emotions, but very concretely, we can get the final product, which is really a step forward in the difficult issue of the european parliament's cooperation with national parliaments. we are always very keen to stress that this cooperation is essential, that we should deepen it, that national parliaments should be more involved in the legislative process. these are good commitments. unfortunately, the practice is a little different, and that is what the suggestions in mr karim's report, which was adopted by a very large majority in the legal affairs committee, are about. i welcome the information you have given me, commissioner, about the consultations that the members of the college have had with the national parliaments and the announcement of further consultations, because the results of these consultations should be reflected in a real change in the relationship between what we do at community level and what is actually implemented in the member states, because it is the member states that implement the law that we adopt. and the faster and deeper the involvement of parliaments, the faster and more effectively will they translate (at least as far as directives are concerned) the legislation we are creating here into national law. i therefore thank you very much for these announcements and for the speeches you have made so far, because they are moving in the direction that my political group very much wants.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i naturally join in the thanks to mr karim, because the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are two principles which effectively defend the european union against the omnipotence of the brussels administration. i am very pleased that the commissioner has said that he will do everything possible to ensure that these principles are respected in the union. unfortunately, in practice, the voice of national parliaments is often ignored. this was the case, for example, with the yellow card, where eleven countries expressed their doubts about the directive on the posting of workers, and the commission's response to the doubts about the compatibility of these proposals with the principle of subsidiarity was decidedly superficial and inadequate to the scale of the objections. the stronger involvement of national parliaments will make what we adopt here better, more understandable and more quickly implemented in the individual countries of the union.
mr. chairman, please! the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are an integral part of the european union's policy-making. they define when the union has competence to legislate and contribute to decision-making based on the principle of 'nearby the citizen'. in other words, they show when real progress can only be achieved at european level and when a country can cope with the problem on its own. this year's report on subsidiarity and proportionality showed that in 2014 the commission received 21 reasoned opinions from member states' parliaments on 15 requests, representing a decrease of 76% compared to the number of documents received in 2013. in previous years, we have therefore seen a much greater involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process. this significantly lower number of reasoned opinions does not, however, indicate a loss of interest in the principle of subsidiarity by the parliaments of the member states, but a decrease in the total number of requests submitted by the european commission at the end of its term of office. in 2012 and 2013, the threshold required for the opening of the yellow card procedure was reached each year, while in 2014 neither the yellow nor the orange card procedures were opened. the better regulation package, adopted on 19 may 2015, to make eu law better for its citizens will, however, only be assessed in next year's report. the subsidiarity control mechanism is crucial for cooperation between the european and national institutions. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very well-prepared and very balanced document.
we only needed one day in wicklow, ireland, to see the consequences and the costs of brexit for a country that, after joining the european union, has become a symbol of economic success and reconciliation under the auspices of brussels, supported by a programme that is rightly called peace. ireland is a good case study of the blameless costs of brexit, but it's also the tip of the iceberg. every country has its own brexit agenda, and there are consequences everywhere, from gibraltar to poland. for my country, of course, the most important thing is the status of the hundreds of thousands of people who came to the islands in search of a better life through work, not by exploiting social systems, but who became the victims of a fraudulent referendum campaign. there are different agendas, but the union of 27 has very quickly found a common platform for negotiation. this is a good sign, this is a sign of unity in the face of this great challenge, which is the consequences of brexit for the european union. we are now estimating costs, but not just costs, because, as max weber and guy verhofstadt said, in 2017, we are looking at europe with greater optimism. there are more potential brexit followers, more people coming in who understand the value of a common europe in a global world, so there are also good consequences.
in writing. i have welcomed the council's guidelines on brexit. the unanimity of the eu member states at such an important and difficult time for the community is crucial. the three most important questions remain: 1.granting rights to those who have built their lives over the years on the rights of uk membership of the eu. i am referring to british citizens who enjoy the right to reside, work or study in the other community countries, as well as to citizens of other member states living in the united kingdom. 2. ensure the stability of the operation of economic operators through an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom, preceded by transparent negotiations. 3. a financial agreement that commits both the united kingdom and the european union to fully honour previous commitments. in particular, the european parliament's committee on culture will follow up on the arrangements for the possibility of continuing cooperation between higher education institutions, with a view to ensuring that joint research projects, study visits and student exchanges can continue to be funded. nor can the impact of brexit on cultural operators be underestimated.
mr. chairman, please! the resolution accusing hungary of discrimination, undermining democracy, and creating a systemic threat to the rule of law is a triple outrage. first, as an attack on democratic elections and democratic politics of one of our nations. secondly, as an act of extraordinary political hypocrisy. thirdly, as an attack on european solidarity and security. the european union authorities, who recently tacitly approved the censorship and persecution of pro-life activists in france, now want to act as mentors and arbiters of democracy and the rule of law. but the most curious thing is the attack on hungary for defending our common borders, and this attack paradoxically brings honor to hungary and is proof that by defending the hungarians who defend us, we are actually defending europe.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr jean-marie cavada, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on enabling cross-border portability of online content services in the internal market (com (2015) 0627 c8-0392/2015 2015/0284 (cod)) (a8-0378/2016)
mr. chairman, please! the fact that our common european market is still divided into 28 pieces is only a grim indication that we still tend to think in terms of the country in which we live every day. but this regulation which we are going to adopt tomorrow shows that we are slowly moving in the right direction, and i take this opportunity to congratulate you, mr president, and our colleague jean-marie cavadze and all the colleagues who have worked on this regulation. the world is changing faster and faster and one of the challenges today is to ensure that consumers can enjoy the online services they have purchased, even outside the country where they live every day, and today (we will adopt this regulation tomorrow) the consumer will no longer have a problem, for example, watching his favorite tv show, match or other favourite activity while travelling. and we encourage our citizens to be mobile when they travel for business, on holiday or otherwise when they are outside their country. but that is only one step, and we have the next steps ahead of us: the possibility of carrying digital content will only be fully exploited when there are no additional roaming charges in the european union, and that is in one month's time. it's going to happen on june 15th. the next step will be to lift unjustified geo-blocking and so on, and finally our citizens will be able to really feel at home in the whole european market, which is what i wish for all of us.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the use of online audiovisual services is an increasingly common way of accessing films, sports broadcasts and music. unfortunately, the user of such a service is still faced with various barriers that prevent him from using his subscriptions while temporarily abroad. i am pleased that this report meets the expectations of consumers and allows them to take with them not only their smartphones and tablets, but also the rights to use online services that they have already purchased in their country of residence. of course, this regulation only concerns specific cases and is not intended to change the existing system of territorial licences. all rights of authors must be adequately safeguarded and protected in this respect. i believe that this is a very important and necessary step in building a digital single market and hopefully we will continue along this path.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i too would like to congratulate mr cavady and the team who negotiated this excellent agreement during the trilateral talks during the maltese presidency in february this year. these new rules on the portability of content for users in the european union allow citizens travelling abroad to use the internet content services they have purchased in their own country. i understand this approach, which is to make it easier for consumers to access content that they have legally purchased or subscribed to in their country of residence. however, we must not forget the creators, because in europe's cultural diversity, it is they who create and deliver high-quality cultural products and content to the european market. this agreement therefore gives us, as consumers, new opportunities, but at the same time it is intended to protect creators and those who invest in the production of cultural or sporting content. i think it's a balanced solution and a positive signal for creators and consumers.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 may 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. despite the popularity of mobile devices and the ease of travelling across the eu, many internet services are still geoblocked. according to the european broadcasting union, 11% of european households purchased a video-on-demand service in 2016. it is estimated that by 2020 this percentage will double. more than half of this market is owned by the american distributor netflix. the regulation adopted at this plenary session will allow the use of online access to a favourite television series, programme or music purchased in one member state throughout the community. such unrestricted access to multimedia services will be available to persons who are abroad for leisure, professional or academic purposes. this report is a further development of the debate on orphan works and collective management of copyright and is another step on the road to modernising copyright in europe that i am currently working on. the regulation should remain simple to apply so as to benefit as many european citizens as possible who move to other countries of the union for a short or long period.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the implementation of regulation (eu) 2017/458 as regards the intensification of border checks at the external borders using the relevant databases.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i fully support the amendment to the regulation we are discussing today. the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement, but it is a party to the schengen agreement, and it is not a party to the schengen agreement. the reinforced controls at the external borders, but also within the union, are therefore a very good decision, which serves the security of the citizens of the european union. i also think it's a good decision to talk about the mass, the inevitability of this control. criminals are usually very smart and they can use all these weird things in the system, so it's better if this control is massive. and if there are queues, well, we should reduce queues, but not by avoiding control or giving up control, but by making control more efficient, and that means automation, digitization. we should do everything we can to expedite this check. i now have a question for the representatives of the commission on intelligent borders. how far along is this project? how many countries are prepared to respond digitally, rather than analogically, to these security challenges? what about training the people who will use these advanced devices or who already use them in part? what is the compatibility of national databases of lost or stolen documents with european databases such as europol or schengen?
madam president! reading and listening to all this, you can conclude that you think transportation is about giving wages to entrepreneurs, drivers and jobs to officials, and no one talks about the recipients of goods. and the cheaper the shipping costs, the cheaper the goods that the customers buy. when i hear about the outrage of europeans that goods are too cheap, i think you've gone mad, ladies and gentlemen. people want to have cheap goods. i lived in soviet times, and we had even more stupid rules. imagine that in the soviet union there were even more stupid regulations than in the european union - which is hard to imagine, but there were. and i can give you five ways to get around these rules, to cheat in this case. and we're gonna pull it out of our pocket, we're gonna do it, but why force people to do things with their right hand through their left ear? and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president, we should not limit the debate on the future of the european road transport sector to social issues only. for the last two years we have seen many cases of violation of free competition in the eu in this sector. so firstly, we need to ensure freedom of providing haulage services across europe without any administrative barriers. then we can go further. i agree that many things have to be done to improve security and standards of daily life of truck drivers, but the idea of the creation of a new agency responsible for road transport is not the right solution. stigmatisation of transport companies from central and eastern europe is not a very good way to build a common market. we are interested in cooperation with our partners in the eu to fight against fraud, but such cooperation should be based on honest and not discriminatory rules. i hope that the commission’s mobility initiatives will not create the next problem but will be an answer for existing challenges of the road transport sector.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are talking about the most important transport sector in europe in every respect, and one which is particularly important for small and mediumsized enterprises. commissioner, the commission has serious complaints. firstly, the inaction in the introduction of milog and the macron law. secondly, the commission is indifferent to the companies of the so-called new europe that are successful on the european market. there is an underlying feeling that the carriers of this new europe had no right to succeed and now they must be punished, and the commission accepts that. i would therefore urge the commission to become the commission, to start using community methods. this one minute is running out, but i have a general request: just start taking responsibility for road transport in europe. otherwise, serious conflicts will arise.
mr. chairman, please! for more than two years we have been waiting for the final position of the european commission on the introduction of a minimum wage by germany or france. for months we have been hearing about social dumping, a term which has entered the eu vocabulary and which many consider to be part of the fight against competition. many would like to see certain transport operations subject to the provisions of the posting of workers directive. where, ladies and gentlemen, is the most important european principle of the free movement of goods and services? where is the idea of competition, which creates new businesses and new jobs? let us remember that it is natural that the economic differences between the countries of our community mean that in different sectors different countries are leaders. it's only natural. of course, that doesn't mean there's no irregularity in this sector. and i want to stress with all responsibility that everything must be done to eliminate all abuses. so we've been waiting for months for a mobility package that would solve a lot of problems and answer a lot of questions. however, we should bear in mind that transport industry representatives from all eu countries - although not all of them are talking about it - are afraid that, using the argument of protecting social rights, the eu will push through protectionist rules that will restrict competition and introduce excessive bureaucracy.
mr. chairman, please! transport is an integral part of the single market and has a major impact on the competitiveness of the european economy. it is in the interest of all the member states of the european union to build a competitive sector without physical, legal or administrative barriers. unfortunately, we are now at a point where the future of the transport sector is in jeopardy. in this context, i would like to refer to the ongoing work on the revision of the directive on the posting of workers. the current provisions of the directive, and in particular the proposed amendments, do not take into account the specificities of the transport sector. how do you calculate the salary of a driver who travels across countries? how to determine which country is the habitual place of work and which labour law to apply if a worker is in several places in the same month? how to enforce the obligation to notify, to appoint a contact person, to keep documents in the cabin? these are issues that are having a negative impact on the development of the transport sector, which is why many meps are in favour of excluding the transport sector from the directive on the posting of workers and of developing sectoral solutions that take into account the high mobility of the sector. we expect the road package, which the commission is due to publish at the end of may, to provide solutions that will protect workers and allow transport companies to develop, especially as we are currently dealing with a number of disputes and controversies related to road transport. as a result, several countries have recently introduced protectionist measures that have a negative impact on the mobility and competitiveness of the sector. unfortunately, there is no firm action on the part of the european commission. for two and a half years, companies have been waiting for the outcome of the minimum wage procedure in germany. there's a case in france, and the commission is silent. companies, but also national administrations and control bodies, need to know what the requirements and conditions of employment are. when will the commission clarify this matter?
member of the commission. – mr president, just to clarify to the two gentlemen. the decision was made today. of course it will be communicated in detail in the coming days to all members that have an interest in this matter, including this house, and of course you do not expect that we have the full details today when the matter has just been concluded.
in writing. there is no doubt that road transport is one of the pillars of the european economy, generating as many as 5 million jobs and accounting for nearly 2% of eu gdp. i therefore consider it extremely important that it be supported at european level, both through appropriate legislation, the development of road infrastructure and the support of people employed in this sector. we must therefore take particular care in our actions to ensure that the proposed solutions do not impose additional unnecessary burdens on businesses, make it more difficult for those employed in the sector to work and disintegrate the transport market. i am afraid that this is the effect that the inclusion of road transport in the posted workers directive would have. i also believe that it is essential to combat unfair practices that harm workers in the sector, such as false employment and illegal labour cost minimisation.
in writing. – the set of legislative proposals, the so-called ‘mobility package’, part of what is expected on 31 may, should aim to increase the competitiveness of the road transport sector and growth of small and medium transport companies. however, up to now, instead of focusing on fair competition by combating fraudulent practices and eliminating the phenomenon of illegal work, one can hear many voices against so-called ‘social dumping’ and intentions to restrict road transport operations, including cabotage, and further regulate drivers. in recent years several member states have placed certain restrictions on the conditions under which hauliers can perform international transport and cabotage operations. these are clearly protectionism measures and should not be tolerated. these measures lead to risk of fragmentation of the eu internal market. i expect that the ‘mobility package’ will first of all clarify and simplify the existing relevant social legislation of the transport sector, so that the rules are uniformly interpreted and properly implemented. and only after that, any change to social and working conditions legislation must be evidence-based and carefully weighted, shall not restrict fair competition based on objective competitive advantages, and shall not create any further administrative burden and additional costs for transport undertakings.
in writing. the road sector is one of the pillars of a thriving european economy. initiatives in the field of transport should therefore support the development of vehicle technologies, promote the use of alternative fuels, increase the interoperability of transport systems and modes, and ensure market access for smes operating in the sector. it is also necessary to reduce the bureaucratic and financial burdens resulting from the different national rules in order to ensure greater freedom in the provision of transport services across the eu. but above all, we must remember that there is no free market and no dynamic development without fair competition. however, this is being undermined by a very large number of adverse factors, in particular by all kinds of protectionism and particularism affecting the common market, which are particularly evident in the international road transport sector. to prevent them, eu policy must therefore promote the development of a sustainable road sector characterised by fair competition. without a broad front against the proliferation of protectionism in europe, the single market may soon turn out to be nothing but a mere slogan with no substance. we can't let that happen.
in writing. polish hauliers are currently the largest group of road hauliers on the european market. every day, 200,000 polish trucks travel across the european union, and 32,000 companies carry out international transport. they are able to take advantage of poland's accession to the european union and work effectively in a competitive market. there is no doubt that truck drivers need good working conditions and a decent wage. since they are busy and often away from home for long periods of time, they also need to be provided with adequate rest and security. i therefore consider it a mistake to work on solutions that impose additional administrative burdens on hauliers without actually improving the living conditions of drivers. i believe that the main focus of the efforts of the european union and the individual member states today should be on improving road infrastructure, including the construction of new parking lots that are adequately equipped and safe.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on 1 july 2016, the fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the free trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, was marked. it is the first new generation free trade agreement concluded by the european union. the agreement, in addition to removing tariffs, also contains rules on the elimination of non-tariff barriers, thereby creating new market access opportunities, including in services and investment, and in areas such as intellectual property, public procurement and competition policy. the sustainability regulations are also a very important part of the agreement. for these reasons, it has become the model for all subsequent free trade agreements. our agreement with korea is not only a breakthrough in terms of the quality and scope of international treaties, but also a tangible economic benefit for both sides. for example, the agreement helped turn a trade deficit of 7.6 billion with korea into a trade surplus of +2.5 billion, while european exports to korea grew by around 50% in the same period. as a result, trade between the two partners reached a record high of almost eur 90 billion last year. korea has become the eighth trading partner of the european union and the union the third of korea. similar successes are also seen in the growth of trade in services we recorded an increase of 11% or the level of foreign direct investment an increase of 35% in korean investment. the european union has become the second largest source of foreign direct investment for korea after the usa, and the eu is the largest investor in korea in terms of the value of cumulative direct investment. however, behind these exemplary figures lie not only investments but above all new jobs, which mean an increase in the well-being of citizens on both sides. these are facts that are hard to dispute. of course, nothing in life is perfect, especially not 100 percent, so agreements need to be reviewed and adjusted from time to time. and so it will be in this case. so my report, which i prepared, contained some notes on the benefits and benefits, but also some information on the need to address some of the important problems. for the union, these include, inter alia, direct transport clauses and issues of repair of exported goods. for korea, it's the chapter on investment. we would also like to discuss issues such as non-tariff barriers, sanitary and phytosanitary barriers, environmental protection, intellectual property protection and the implementation by korea of the international labour organization convention. equally important, the final document also included provisions on the need to promote the agreement among smes so that they benefit from the agreement to a much greater extent than before. in conclusion, especially today, when protectionist slogans are becoming more popular, it is worth talking about the benefits of international cooperation in trade and investment. this is clearly demonstrated by the free trade agreement between the european union and the republic of korea. the results are excellent, far better than the results previously predicted for both sides.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank all the speakers, both on their own behalf and on behalf of the political groups, for their presentations and indeed for their votes in favour of this agreement and this report, although i also understand all the doubts expressed here. they are also presented in the report itself. as i said in my speech, there are no perfect solutions, you have to keep working on them to achieve the ideal. i also want to thank the commissioner for her cooperation with me and the commission, as well as with the diplomats of the european union, the diplomats of korea and the social partners. because we were meeting with social partners. i also organised a conference here in the european parliament, where the views and opinions of all - entrepreneurs, politicians and social partners - could be presented. i really appreciate this conversation. however, it is worth saying a few words about trade agreements in general. we live in what i call the globalization of wealth, as opposed to the globalization of poverty that has basically been sweeping the earth for decades or centuries. this globalization of wealth is characterized by a leveling of the world's civilizational development, a leveling of development between the north and the south of the world. and when i say civilized, i mean not just economic development, economic development, but social development, development that benefits every single person on the planet. one of the instruments - who knows if it is not the most important - for achieving these good goals is trade agreements, international agreements. we should keep going down this road.
mr. chairman, please! it is a pity that tragedies as great as the one that happened in bangladesh sometimes lead to changes in respect for human rights, respect for workers' rights, and above all, the rules of the law on safety and health at work. fortunately, the agreement between bangladesh and the european union, as well as the united states and the international labour organization, has improved the situation to some extent. changes were made to the 2006 bangladesh labour law, and inspections were carried out in over 2,500 workplaces. you have to know that 32 factories have been closed, over 300 trade unions have been registered, employment has been increased in the labour inspection institutions, but also in the fire services, civil protection or development authorities. these are all very good, positive effects of the european union's actions, but also of the agreement. and very importantly, the companies themselves have been involved, and that's fundamental. of course, the repair process is not complete. the repair process must continue, and it won't be easy. but we also have to remember that the jobs that companies give in countries like bangladesh are saving millions of lives in this case, and tens of millions of lives worldwide. tens of millions of families are protected from unemployment, from malnutrition, from hunger, from poverty. so we need to do these important things in a responsible way, so that we can save people in poor countries and help them, and not kill the industry that gives them a chance to live.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the protocol on trade in fish and fishery products and the norwegian financial mechanism are very important and necessary for the countries of the european union, including poland as the largest importer of fishery products from norway in the european union. therefore, measures to facilitate the flow of goods from norway to the european union as well as the increase of duty-free tariff quotas are welcomed. poland supports efforts that contribute to the removal of barriers and thus ensure easier flow of fishery products from norway to the markets of the european union countries. in addition, we hope to establish closer and more measurable cooperation in the field of fisheries management research within the framework of the norwegian financial mechanisms.
mr president, here in the european parliament, we are outraged by the imposition of norwegian ad valorem duties for certain products in 2013. these increases go against the spirit of good cooperation and the letter of the bilateral agreement with norway, but this is not the only issue that sheds a bad light on relations between the european union and norway. i am referring to the unjustified and gradual appropriation of fish resources in the area of spitsbergen and the preferential treatment of norway, which does not respect the provisions of international agreements. this leads european fishermen into bankruptcy, as well as allowing norway to disrespect and disregard the european union as a partner. we cannot accept this. for the sake of respecting international law, for the sake of good mutual cooperation, and to protect european union industry from bankruptcy, i ask the commissioner to look for a mutually satisfactory solution to be put in place as soon as possible.
the next item is the joint debate on: report by andrey novakova on behalf of the committee on regional development on the right mix of funds for europe's regions: balancing financial instruments and subsidies under eu cohesion policy (2016/2302 ((ini)) (a8-0139/2017) and report by ruža tomašić on behalf of the committee on regional development on the prospects for technical assistance under cohesion policy (2016/2303 ((ini)) (a8-0180/2017).
mr. chairman, please! our parliament will be voting on the report on the cohesion fund today. it is large, because it covers 75 billion euros over the period 2014-2020. in paragraph 6 of this report, we emphasise that the cohesion fund should not be reduced. i think that this is generally the right approach, because it is consistent with the declared european solidarity. however, as we also note in the report, the financial instruments have some shortcomings (paragraph 11). as already noted in paragraph 1 of the report, they were designed before the financial and economic crisis and were not the most appropriate. examples of misuse of these funds can be found, but it must be noted that they are going to the member states that joined the community later, and despite sometimes problematic use are often the only reason for support for the european union. similar trends can be seen in my constituency, lublin, poland, where there are high social expectations that the european union will consistently and seriously seek to achieve a real level playing field for the regions throughout the community. so when there is a budget surplus, i hope it will be redirected to less prosperous regions, such as lublin.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! the financial instruments have proved their worth and have performed well both in the previous and the current financial perspective. however, their use is not without problems and the potential is not fully exploited. i believe that financial instruments are a good complement to grants, as they are able to attract additional financial support in appropriate situations. their added value should be appreciated especially in areas such as research and smes. however, i believe that grants should remain the basis of cohesion policy in the new financial perspective. they provide a proven and sound basis for public investment in infrastructure, environment and social investment. to find the most appropriate model for combining grants with loans and guarantees in the future, a top-down, uniform approach should be avoided, but rather flexibility should be maintained and local and regional authorities should be allowed to choose the best form of support offered based on local conditions. and it is the local conditions and the specificities of each region that should be decisive for the objectives of support for projects under cohesion policy. the europe of the regions needs more trust. we must remember that it is those who are doing these projects at the bottom that are building the potential of their cities, their companies, their regions and ultimately the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to begin by thanking the other political groups for their good cooperation and for the preparation of a joint motion for a resolution. since the 2016 election campaign and elections, political tensions have been rising between the ruling party and the opposition in zambia, a country that has seen many peaceful pro-democracy transitions over the past 25 years. as everyone has been saying, the main opposition party leader hakainde hichilema, who did not recognize the electoral victory of president lungu, was arrested, imprisoned and charged with treason. it's a crime that carries a maximum sentence of death in zambia. as we know, there has been no execution in zambia for 20 years, but for now, the maximum penalty for treason is still possible in zambia. as we have also noted the numerous reports of political motivation in relation to the charges against hichilema, and given that the trial will begin this week, i would like to call for an urgent political dialogue between the two parties with the support of international partners, including the european union and regional organisations. the zambian government must ensure that hichilema has a fair trial.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! ethiopia is a key player in the security of the horn of africa, and in dealing with drought, with epidemics, with the influx and outflow of refugees, it is carrying a very heavy burden. it is important that all these problems are resolved in a way that respects the rule of law and democracy, also on the basis of the recently concluded cooperation agreement with the european union. meanwhile, ethiopian authorities have repeatedly used excessive force against the opposition, suppressing peaceful demonstrations, and perpetrating acts of persecution, arbitrary arrests and killings against ethnic minorities, journalists, bloggers and political activists. we therefore call on the ethiopian government to release on bail and drop the charges against dr. merera gudina and the other political prisoners, and we also call on the representatives of the european union to take action to launch an international investigation under the auspices of the un into the killing of the protesters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, when south sudan was created six years ago, we looked with hope that the christian communities living in the south would be able to break free from the control of the fallen state that was sudan as a whole. however, your honor, in newly established states, civil wars do happen. they're predictable, you could have seen it coming. it happened in europe, too. we have taken little responsibility for this country, which in its geopolitical environment needed our help, and today the remarks made in this room by my colleagues - charles tannock, javier nart - are very timely. sudan needs more solidarity from the west, because what the world needs is not a new euro-civilization, but european responsibility and the values of european civilization. it needs proven values and our concrete commitment, not general instructions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. thank you very much, but without consumer confidence in business, the common market has no chance of functioning well, and the very fact that some markets - in this case central european markets - are targeted by products of lower quality, lowers that confidence. i do not criticize the operators for targeting different offers to different markets, as they are entitled to do, but it is unacceptable that there are substantial differences in quality, and there are, and that consumers are misled. if it is true that the biscuits of a certain company sold in poland contain 5% butter and a certain amount of palm oil, and the same biscuits in the same package in germany contain 12% butter and do not contain palm oil, then this is simply a scandal. maybe there's something written in there, i don't know. there is a lot of talk about washing powder being packaged the same but with different money and different smells, so we have proposed a pilot project to assess the alleged differences in the quality of products sold in the common market. i'm not going to let you down. i ask the commission to support this project. together, we can change these bad practices.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the subject of our discussion today only seems superficial, because it actually concerns a huge number of citizens of the european union - both in my country, in poland, but also in many other new member states - who are clearly discriminated against by the producers of foodstuffs and cleaning products. we are now certain that the common perception of lower quality products offered on the markets of the central and eastern european countries is supported by a number of studies and analyses. consumers in my country have raised similar concerns about the quality of food, toiletries, cleaning and disinfecting products for many years. but what's most disturbing about this whole thing is the politics of many of the big corporations. first, they mislead consumers by not providing reliable information on the different compositions of the same products in western and eastern europe, differences which, for example, in food can have a negative impact even on public health. second, the prices of inferior products available in poland, among other countries, are in many cases higher than those of their counterparts in the west. the treatment of consumers from my region of europe as second-class customers undoubtedly deserves a european response. no one expects the composition of all products to be completely uniform throughout europe, but we cannot accept such wide variations in the composition and quality of the same goods offered on the common market but in different member states. given the european nature of the problem, the commission should not only take a stand on this sensational issue, but also use all the tools and means at its disposal to investigate the problem and take the appropriate response to protect consumers.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i just wanted to point out that this is a kind of food adulteration. this problem of counterfeit food is also very important, especially since at this moment we can no longer - so to speak - organoleptically examine these products ourselves. to test these forgeries, we need high-tech labs with new techniques. i therefore think that this problem requires a central solution at union level, so that these products can be tested in some way.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the publication of the mobility package is indeed an event we have been waiting for for many months. a common european response to the sometimes unilateral actions of some member states in the field of road transport is much needed and expected by both carriers and truck drivers. protectionism is a major threat to the common market and fair competition between east and west european transport companies, for which the ultimate price will be paid by business and consumers. unfortunately, i have the impression that this legislative package only partially addresses the challenges that are emerging and does not address the most problematic issues. the commission's proposal to recognise drivers in international transport as posted workers after only three days abroad does not correspond to the realities of long-distance transport operations. i have similar doubts about the rules for taking a week's rest. social dumping - the term you have used - is a very clever wording, but it does not reflect the economic reality of the european union at all. i hope that, through a joint effort, the final version of the proposed solutions will also take into account the perspectives of transport companies from central and eastern europe, which are a very important part of this market and whose views and expectations have not been adequately taken into account in this package. the commissioner has declared her willingness to compromise, and i accept that statement.
madam president, vice president sefcovic and commissioner bulc! you're late with this package, you're late with your response, but this package is. i wish we could agree on the motto "without trucks, the union stops". we need a functioning road freight system. but we are in a conflict. it's an open conflict between the carriers of at least twelve, maybe fourteen, countries and the rest of the european union. there are different definitions, for example, social dumping. the question arises: why should the driver be paid differently in germany than in france? does this mean that a polish or slovak driver who goes to bulgaria or romania is to have his salary reduced because there are lower salaries? you have not yet offered any alternative or answer to these questions, so we have to debate. we promise to work together in good faith, but it's gonna be a really tough conversation.
madam president! the priority for us, for the recovery of the labour market, for the real fight against social dumping, is to combat illegal employment, which is 20 times higher than legal posting of workers. we do nothing about it in the european parliament. by introducing rules that make it increasingly difficult to post workers - of which almost 70% are posted to western european countries and between them - we are killing labour mobility, which is a major factor in the economic growth of europe as a whole, which our european society so needs today. delegation covering a number of different sectors is itself very complex. international transport is as complex as the nature of secondment. i would urge us to slow down a little bit on the posting of workers and to work on transport and posting solutions in parallel and finally to propose to the member states the best solutions for both posting and transport without killing european mobility.
president of the council. i have to say, madam president, thank you very much for this very kind introduction. i would like to thank the honourable members for giving me the opportunity to address you all on this very important issue. some of you may be surprised to see me here a few weeks earlier than the actual start of the estonian presidency, but for the reasons explained by the vice-president, the current maltese presidency was not able to attend this session. the new european consensus on development has been among the council's priorities and will guide the eu's development cooperation for the years to come. as you know, our institutions have considerably accelerated the pace of the interinstitutional negotiations since february this year. you will also probably recall that five intensive, but very constructive, trilateral meetings between the european parliament, the council and the commission paved the way for the adoption of the consensus by the eu development ministers at their meeting on 19 may. similarly, i look forward to the vote which will take place in this house tomorrow, and hopefully allow for all the pieces of this complex puzzle to be in place ahead of the joint signature during the european development days on 7 june. let me stress here that the council is very proud of this common achievement. it was only possible thanks to the high level of commitment of all parties to come to a common understanding and a shared agenda for the future of eu development policy over the next 15 years. the primary aim will be the eradication of poverty. in line with the lisbon treaty and the eu's global strategy on foreign and security policy, the consensus will also help achieve the eu's external policy priorities. as we all know, the eu remains the world's largest development aid donor, providing more than half of assistance world-wide. the adoption of the consensus is a key eu deliverable in the commitment to globally implement the 2030 agenda and support partner countries in achieving the sustainable development goals. the eu is sending an important signal to the global community, notably to the un high level political forum in july, on how it will support partner countries in their endeavour to implement the 2030 agenda and achieve the sustainable development goals. the new consensus for development is articulated around the five ps of agenda 2030: people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnerships. our top priorities will be to work towards the eradication of poverty, to reduce inequalities and promote social inclusion, to promote good governance, to ensure human and economic development, to tackle global issues such as the fight against hunger, to protect the environment, as well as to preserve the world's natural resources. social inclusion and gender equality will be central to the way we implement and define our policies. in implementing these priorities, the consensus will have to respond to the main challenges that the world is facing today. the complexity and degree of interconnection between the economic, social and environmental dimensions of development policy this can only be strengthened through a holistic approach. the resilience of countries and societies should be put at the centre of our attention and the cross-cutting elements of the consensus such as gender equality, youth, investment and trade, sustainable energy, climate action, good governance, democracy, rule of law and human rights, as well as migration and mobility accelerate results, progress and transformation to achieve the sustainable development goals. and this will bring me to the issue of implementation. the new consensus binds us all, the eu institutions and member states alike. in this regard, we all need to work to the best of our abilities on its implementation. the coordination and coherence between the actions will be key. effective results can only be achieved through a tailor-made approach with our partner countries, involving both state and non-state actors. inclusiveness is therefore essential in order to increase the ownership of our development policy by our partners. last but not least, on behalf of the council i would like to thank this house, and in particular the two co-rapporteurs, mr neuser and mr wenta, as well as the chair of the committee on development, mrs mcavan, for their dedication and constructive approach which resulted in an excellent agreement which is of benefit to both the eu and our development partners. the council looks forward to the signature of the new european consensus during the european development days on 7 june.
member of the commission. – madam president, over the past few months, since the commission put forward its proposal for a new european consensus on development, we have been working together with parliament and the council towards a joint statement, a new collective vision and a common framework for action in development policy for the european union and all its member states. the task of bringing 28 member states, the parliament with its different political groups, and the commission together around such a far-reaching joint text is, without doubt, a formidable challenge. on many of the points for which parliament has strongly advocated, the commission would be willing to go even further. we have all had to seek compromises, but this only underlines the significance of what we are about to achieve. this text represents a genuine consensus, crafted through common effort and owned by us all. the new consensus endorsed in the committee on development’s resolution also received unanimous support at a recent foreign affairs development council on 19 may. i would like to extend my sincere and wholehearted thanks to the committee on development and, in particular, the co—rapporteurs, norbert neuser and bogdan wenta, their colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, and the chair of the committee, linda mcavan, who have engaged systematically and constructively in our interinstitutional discussions on the new consensus. i also want to thank honourable members for all their previous contributions, including the resolution on the revision of the consensus adopted by this house on 14 february this year, which is strongly reflected in the joint statement. the new european consensus on development represents a profound shift in our development cooperation, guided by the vision of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the european union, as the world’s largest development actor, has a great responsibility in making sure that this vision is turned into reality. an ambitious new european consensus for development is a very important step in this direction, laying down a strong basis for maintaining the european union’s global leadership in development. the new consensus unequivocally reaffirms that poverty eradication remains the primary objective of eu development policy. i want to be crystal clear on that. we will work to reduce vulnerabilities, address inequalities and ensure that no—one is left behind. we will aim to reach those furthest behind first. with this clear objective in mind, the consensus enables us to respond better to the more complex and interconnected challenges that the world faces today. it sends an important political message, namely that europe is determined to work better together, making the most of the joint capacities of the eu institutions and the member states. our new consensus closely reflects the 2030 agenda structured around the five ‘p’s: people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. it integrates the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development and also underlines the links with other policies to make sure they take account of development concerns, including peace and security, humanitarian aid, migration, environment and climate. therefore it also represents a significant contribution to the implementation of the paris agreement on climate change and the united nations’ efforts to build sustainable peace for all. as regards the migration and development nexus, i am convinced that what we need to offer is more partnership and more cooperation rather than less. migration is an issue of common concern, common responsibility and common actions, in particular with our african partners. the consensus takes a comprehensive approach to implementation, combining aid with other resources – public and private – sound policies and a strengthened approach to policy coherence for development. it explicitly reaffirms our collective official development assistance commitments and guarantees that realistic and verifiable actions will be taken towards meeting them. we put strong emphasis on better tailored partnerships with a broader range of stakeholders and partner countries, stressing the importance of fully involving civil society, the european parliament and the national parliaments in the implementation of the sustainable development goals. through this consensus, europe strives to be not only the biggest but also the best and most effective development actor. your endorsement of the consensus at this plenary will be a milestone for our development cooperation. it should allow for signature at the highest political level at the european development days next week and it will provide the european union with a very substantial deliverable for the united nations high—level political forum on sustainable development in july. at a time when the values of multilateralism and solidarity are called into question and the commitment of some to sustainable development seems to be wavering, europe must pull its weight and help to keep global efforts on the right track. this consensus is proof of our determination to do exactly that.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you, madam president! and i also want to thank my colleague neuser, who can't be with us today, for his great cooperation. of course, i would like to thank our president, mrs mcavan, in particular, for her support during this long and complex negotiation process, and the co-rapporteurs, the presidency, the commission and the representatives of the european external action service for their commitment and work on this key document for the development policy of the union and the member states. as mentioned above, the main political objective of the new consensus - which is closely linked to the 2020-2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals - is to combat poverty, discrimination and inequalities. in this context, parliament has strongly advocated that policy coherence and effectiveness be taken into account in development actions undertaken by the union and its member states, as well as by other donors and organisations. oda is of key importance for the union's development policy. the objective of achieving a 0,7% target of gross national income by 2030 is therefore an important commitment for member states. the new consensus also addresses increased financing in development policy, including through increased public-private partnerships, and the importance of fair and properly regulated trade. the link between development policy, migration and security is undeniable, as we are keenly aware of crises caused by conflict and instability. the new consensus will point the way towards addressing the root causes of migration. tomorrow we will vote on the resolution on consensus. once approved, president tajani will also sign the joint statement at the european development days next week. i am convinced that this will be an important signal from the european union and its member states to uphold their international commitments to eradicate poverty and achieve the sustainable development goals.
member of the commission. – mr president, today’s intense debate underscores the political significance of the text that we have before us. the european union was instrumental in shaping the global 2030 agenda, which is consistent with our vision and has now become the world’s blueprint for global sustainable development. the world is looking to us to live up to this role and lead the global implementation efforts by taking full account of the sustainable development goals in the european policy framework and in our priorities. we should not shy away from this responsibility. development policy, in the form of this new consensus, will make a central contribution in this direction. the commission will give the highest priority to this effort and we remain committed to working closely together with parliament and our member states as we move forward. together we can achieve more and spur action that can change lives across the world for the better, helping to end poverty in our generation. please believe me that, without this consensus, eradicating poverty, reaching our official development assistance (oda) commitments, effectively tackling the root causes of migration, and ensuring the leading global role of the european union in the implementation of the sustainable development goals will be much, much more difficult to achieve, if they are possible at all. in conclusion, let me thank parliament once again, and in particular the co—rapporteurs, for your contribution to this important joint endeavour.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, as commissioner mimica – and also mr goerens – highlighted very well, the challenges of reaching consensus among all the member states are huge. i can assure you that all the amendments negotiated by the maltese presidency are factual and firmly in line with the treaties. ms sánchez caldentey and ms heubuch raised the issue of the security sector. firstly, as ms mcavan so eloquently underlined, poverty eradication remains the primary objective of the new consensus. at the same time, the security sector, subject to democratic governance and accountability, is – as we all know – essential to achieving peaceful and inclusive societies. therefore i find the wording in the relevant paragraph a good compromise that opens new ways to include and firmly embed security in the overall sustainable development framework. the debate today shows how important the new consensus is for the future of our development policy. it paves the way for common implementation with all development partners over the years to come. while the negotiation process that is now behind us proved to be demanding in terms of identifying the main political priorities and the most efficient tools, and setting clear responsibilities, implementation will not be easy either. it will require a shared agenda and a joint effort from all of us, just as all three eu institutions have been able to cooperate while negotiating on the consensus. i can assure you that the council will take its share of responsibility for the implementation of the consensus and i look forward to cooperating with parliament in this important endeavour.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 1 june 2017.
the next item is the debate on the following oral questions to the council by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, on resilience as a strategic priority for eu external action ((o-000032/2017 - b8-0312/2017), to the commission by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, on resilience as a strategic priority for eu external action (o-000033/2017 - b8-0313/2017) and to the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, on resilience as a strategic priority for eu external action (o-000034/2017 - b8-0314/2017).
mr. chairman, please! resilience is a term that often comes up in public debate about development policy and humanitarian aid. this is a positive sign that the commission has decided to include resilience as a strategic priority of the union's external action and has also committed to update the 2012 document and continue the action plan to 2020. the negative effects of conflicts and disasters have long-term and significant impacts on the economy, social issues, health, culture and the environment. this is particularly acute at local and community level. the resolution calls on the commission to include resilience in its communication as a key element of the political dialogue with developing countries. we also underline the importance of joint programming of union resilience actions to ensure maximum complementarity and less fragmentation of humanitarian and development assistance.
in writing. we live in an era of increasing globalisation, which affects a growing number of sectors. it is a process that cannot be stopped, but it must be understood and shaped so that eu member states can compete in a global market. among the problems that are becoming more and more important and that pose a serious threat and risk factor in the context of the proper functioning and development of enterprises, including those belonging to the agri-food sector, are, for example, price volatility and various instances of unfair competition. the eu's trade policy is based on the principle of the free movement of goods, services, capital and capital, and the principle of the free movement of persons. the efforts of the eu services responsible for eu external action should therefore focus more on analysing threats at country and regional level and improving the monitoring of the impact of external factors, so that appropriate action can be taken at the right time. to improve this type of action and increase the capacity to prevent crises, the development of international policies and arrangements in this area would also be a useful initiative.
in writing. in the context of the forthcoming publication of the communication of the high representative/vice-president of the european commission, federica mogherini, entitled 'resilience as a strategic priority for the eu's external action', it is worthwhile for the european parliament to have its clear input in the development of this document. especially since it is one of the five priorities listed in the eu's global strategy. the resolution prepared for this occasion is a good document that explains how the concept of resilience is understood, with particular attention to its importance for development policy. the ep points out the multidimensional nature of resilience, which is a human, economic and political factor as well as a security factor. we have repeatedly stressed in this house that there can be no development without a sense of security and political, institutional and social stability. the process of building resilience in partner countries is a long-term action. its effects are seldom immediately apparent. but this should not make us doubt its effectiveness. therefore, long-term financial guarantees should be provided for such projects. and that's what i'd like to call for today.
madam president, holocaust denial has been penalised by the majority of eu member states, yet recently voices have been raised questioning this legislation. moreover, thousands of jews, families of holocaust survivors, have recently decided to leave the eu and move to israel. they see no future here. i think that early warning is needed about the awful rise of anti-semitism in europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, as i said at the beginning this is a very important debate on a very alarming topic. some of you mentioned that it must be a matter of solidarity to help and to protect people who are affected by anti-semitism, but i must say that solidarity is not enough. we need to ensure security for all people, and speaking about security, we are in the field of criminal justice. some of you mentioned that we need a legal framework. i can only inform you about something you know yourself, that the member states are very well equipped with the necessary legislation because we have the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia and the member states are obliged to implement it in full – to to my regret, not all the member states. in some member states, the situation is not satisfactory because we still have some member states where denial of the holocaust, for instance, is not considered criminal wrongdoing under their criminal codes. we have many other problems with definitions and so on, but the commission is pushing very hard on the member states to have the legislation in place. speaking about criminal justice, i want to respond also to those who mentioned aggressive jihadism. this must be fought by means of criminal justice as well. we now have very strict legislation on combating radicalisation and terrorism. we have very strict rules and laws that enable our member states to punish not only those who are the perpetrators of violent crime, but also those who are helping, who are supporting with finance, or who are supporting with information, shelter and so on. we are equipped and we have to act. speaking about criminal justice, however, i must say that for me, criminal justice is the last resort. we must do much more, because here in europe we face the situation where we have a high number of people who are able to commit criminal offences against people of another race or another religion. unfortunately, i have to say this is a happening in europe due to the passivity of society and the silent acceptance by society. this is something we have already witnessed several times in our history and we need to do much more than prohibit criminal wrongdoing. we need to act against this passivity and help society to be much more vocal, to say this is not only prohibited – this is totally unacceptable. i am speaking about all sorts of violence against groups of people and minorities. i would warn very strongly against some attempts to impose collective guilt in europe because we must never do that again. today we had a very good debate with the it providers, ngos and the representatives of the member states on combating hatred and hate speech online. you also mentioned it many times here and we agreed on the fact that we need to work together. we need to invest a lot and to use all our collective energy and determination against these phenomena, and we need to work in the direction of having a hate-free europe. it is highly ambitious, but we have no other way. we have to do it and we have to try. so thank you very much for all your comments. this debate has convinced me that we have to invest a lot of energy in combating not only anti-semitism, but also all other kinds of hatred in europe. it is something we have to do, and we have to do it together.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me once again assure you that the council is determined to address anti—semitism in all its forms – xenophobia, racism. hate speech will be on next week’s agenda of the ministers of justice for discussion. moreover, we need to ensure effective implementation of existing legislation and protect victims. much is at stake here: responsibility for the history of our continent and the essential democratic rights that shape our societies today. crimes motivated by racism and xenophobia affect not only the victim, but also society as a whole. in the name of the council, i have followed this debate very closely and paid particular attention to the views expressed. i wish this house all strength and wisdom for tomorrow’s votes.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 1 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr jarosław wałęsa on behalf of the committee on international trade on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the introduction for ukraine of temporary autonomous trade measures supplementing the trade concessions available under the association agreement (com ((2016) 0631 - c8-0392/2016 - 2016/0308 ((cod)).
rapporteur. – mr president, in recent years ukraine has faced unprecedented challenges, both political and economic. despite the toll taken by the illegal annexation of crimea and the russian aggression in donetsk and lugansk, the government has been conducting reforms on a scale that the country has never experienced before. the scope of the reforms is so ambitious that it is fair to say more has been done during the last two years than over previous decades. these processes happened while enormous economic strain existed due to the russian embargo and transit ban. the european institutions have always been supportive of the process of stabilisation and peace in the ukraine. this has included not only support for the reforms but also micro—financial support, trade measures and, finally, the visa—free regime for ukrainian citizens. only yesterday, we heard that the dutch senate had voted on the ratification of the eu—ukraine association agreement. these are all signs that our partnership is going strong. in september last year, the commission issued a proposal for granting temporary additional trade measures to ukraine in order to increase its trade flows and support the country economically. these asymmetrical preferences in the commission’s proposal include additional tariff rate quotas for agricultural goods and a reduction in duties for industrial goods. as the commission did not provide for an impact assessment, due to the time constraints, this proved problematic for members of the european parliament. at this point it should be remembered that those preferences are on top of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement that entered into force at the beginning of 2016. as the first report on implementation is underway, we are not yet able to assess whether the preferences already granted are sufficient. in the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, concern was expressed about the timing and the choice of products. according to the opinion, the preferences target highly sensitive agricultural products that were hit by the series of crises and the russian embargo. furthermore, last year eu farmers experienced a record low harvest, while the opposite was true for the world’s other main exporters. i also received feedback from stakeholders regarding potentially sensitive products among industrial goods, which was reflected in their report. taking all this into consideration, i think we have managed to achieve a balanced outcome in the committee on international trade. my report proposes the deletion of two agricultural tariffs, wheat and processed tomatoes, and one industrial tariff, urea, from the annexes. the report also tackles a number of challenges to commission proposals, such as the need for checks and inspections in order to issue a movement certificate, especially when products stem from territory not under the control of the government, and also ukraine’s abstention from introducing discriminatory internal administrative measures, as well as the implementation of continued and sustained efforts with regard to the fight against corruption and illegal activities. i also emphasised the right for european industry to initiate a safeguard procedure. in the end, i believe that a detailed assessment of the implementation of these temporary alternative measures is needed. i am hoping for a strong majority tomorrow and a strong plenary mandate. once this is obtained, my goal is to start the interinstitutional negotiations as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, these autonomous trade measures that the commission has proposed aim to express economic and political support for ukraine, an associated partner and our neighbour, which is at a very difficult juncture. the commission made the proposal in september and it is a reasonable and balanced proposal, granting better access to the eu market for certain agricultural products and certain industrial goods from ukraine. the commission has considered some sensitivities related to agricultural markets, for instance, and we have not included the most sensitive products such as poultry, sugar or fruits. we propose to increase annual duty-free tariff rate quotas for eight agricultural products on top of what is already provided for in the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta). in some cases these additional amounts are small and will have no impact whatsoever on the eu market. in the case of other products, for example honey, the additional preference to ukrainian exports will most likely simply displace imports from other countries, such as china, without affecting prices or import flows to the eu. moreover, honey and processed tomatoes are examples of export products that will benefit small and medium-sized ukrainian companies immediately. and in this context ukraine is a net importer of eu agricultural products. by the way, neither wheat nor processed tomatoes are subject to the russian food ban, and when it comes to urea, that will actually benefit european farmers because it will replace imports of fertilisers from russia and give us a cheaper alternative. furthermore, we have recent free trade agreements negotiated by the european union with peru, colombia, central america, vietnam and canada. here we already provide unlimited duty-free access for some of the agricultural products covered by the proposal, so why should we not do that for ukraine, our friend and economically integrated neighbour? we also have in the proposal a specific safeguard that would suspend preferences to any of the products in the event of market distortion, and we are ready to consider reinforcing that clause, should you so wish, when we go into trilogue. so in sum, this is very much a political gesture. it is about sending a positive signal of eu support to ukraine, helping the economy of a country which is suffering from the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol and military conflict provoked by russia in the eastern part of the country. that is why i am very concerned about the report that the committee has adopted because it significantly reduces the scope of our proposal. on the impact assessment that you have requested, let me just recall that the trade preferences cover a very small fraction of the preferences already in force in the dcfta, so it is impossible to separate the two impacts. moreover, the last sustainable impact assessment that we did for the dcfta in 2007 forecast a deep market opening by the eu, and that is still valid. the economic parameters have not changed much, especially not on the ukrainian side, and the impact assessed at that time was negligible for the eu market. you suggest applying stricter rules of origin to the products from the territories which are not under effective control of the government of ukraine. that would unfortunately lead to two different types of rules of origin applying to exports of the same product. it would be cumbersome, it would create legal chaos both for exporters and for the customs authority, so we oppose these amendments. this proposal, as i said, is a political gesture. i hope that we can work together, parliament and the council, in the trilogue so as to send a more constructive proposal to ukraine and help its people and its economy in these challenging times.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. ladies and gentlemen! the trade preferences proposed by the european commission for ukraine are disadvantageous for some very sensitive agricultural sectors of the union. these are mainly cereals, but also some fruits and vegetables. the markets for these products have recently experienced serious crises and the negative impact of the russian embargo. this is particularly the case for the countries of central and eastern europe, which are the gateway to the union for products from the east. in order to avoid exacerbating the difficulties already faced by union producers in the sectors most affected by the current preferential imports from ukraine, in its position on additional preferences, the committee on agriculture recommended the abolition of the proposed tariff quotas for wheat (100 thousand tonnes), maize (650 thousand tonnes) and processed tomatoes (5000 tonnes) and the reduction of the tariff quota for barley from 350 to 50 thousand tonnes. despite the political and economic problems ukraine is experiencing, in the face of the current difficult situation in european agriculture, we in the commission could not support such a significant increase in trade preferences for ukraine in the agricultural sector. the union supports and should continue to support the reconstruction of the ukrainian economy, including agriculture, but the proposed additional quotas are being used in a very short time and by few market participants. this aid doesn't go to a larger group of producers, traders, but only to a narrow group of oligarchs. other forms of aid should be introduced, for example in the form of know-how transfer or various pilot projects that would introduce modern technologies to the agricultural market and empower normal farmers.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. in taking part in this debate, i would like to stress that ukraine deserves support because of the war on its territory, supported by russia, and the occupation of crimea, on the one hand, and the profound economic and social reforms it is undertaking, on the other. ukraine has already received such strong support under the association agreement signed with the union, as its trade part includes generous preferential quotas for, among others, wheat, maize and barley. in this context, the commission's proposal to grant ukraine additional duty-free quotas for up to eight agricultural products is considered by the polish delegation to the ecr to be a proposal that goes too far. we therefore strongly support the decision of the committee on agriculture and the committee on international trade of the european parliament to exclude from the duty-free quotas wheat, processed tomatoes and urea fertilisers and we hope that the commission and the council will respect this decision of parliament.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, i say to the house: i would like to thank all of you for your valuable input in this debate. your comments are very important to me, but i have to say that today’s debate illustrated exactly the conditions i was forced to work in while i was working on this report. as you could hear, we have very extreme views in this house, from left to right, from one extreme to the other, and my goal from the beginning was very simple. i always had in mind help for ukraine, but also i always remembered that protecting the interests of european farmers and producers is also important. so finding the proper balance was not as easy as it seems. here in the european parliament a majority of us strongly support the reforms in ukraine, and i believe that by introducing these additional trade measures we are helping ukraine to develop, not only in the economic sphere but also politically. keeping that in mind, i understand that we are going to have a very difficult time in the council. i understand that the council will present additional deletions of additional tariff lines, so we may have a problem with that, madam commissioner, and i hope that we can find a middle ground. tomorrow i hope that i will receive a very strong mandate, because this is the proposal of this house, and this is the starting point of the debate. i hope that we will be able to start the trilogue negotiations very soon, and i hold that we can conclude them as soon as we can. i am going to strongly defend the position of the european parliament and in the end i hope that the position of parliament is going to prevail.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 1 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on sri lanka gsp+.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: the recommendation by angelika mlinar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on recommendations concerning the draft council decision establishing the multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the years 2018-2022 (14423/2016 - c8-0528/2016 - 2016/0204 (app)) and the statement by the council and the commission on the multiannual framework for the eu agency for fundamental rights for the years 2018-2022 (2017/2702 (rsp)).
in writing. the statutory objective of the agency is to provide the union institutions and the member states with assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights in the implementation of union law. the thematic areas of the agency's activities shall be defined in a multiannual framework of work valid for a period of five years. in the draft decision, the council proposed that the agency focus, inter alia, on the situation of victims of crime and access to justice, equality and non-discrimination issues, information society issues, respect for private life and protection of personal data, judicial cooperation, except in criminal matters, migration and integration of refugees, and child rights and social integration of roma, between 2018 and 2022. i share the rapporteur's view that parliament should in the course of the negotiations which have already been concluded place greater emphasis on the need to include police and criminal cooperation in the multiannual framework. this would not only reflect existing local needs, but would also enable the agency to provide on its own initiative a comprehensive analysis in areas of obvious relevance to fundamental rights. i also believe that the agency should shortly take over from the venice commission, a body of the council of europe, the task of providing the european commission with expertise on the respect for the rule of law in the member states, as well as analysing the situation of their citizens (who are also citizens of the european union) whose fundamental rights are also being violated as a result of the actions of national authorities that run counter to the rule of law.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, coastal and marine resources contribute an estimated eur 30 trillion to global [inaudible] ecosystem services, but those resources are extremely vulnerable to environmental degradation, overfishing, climate change and pollution. in this context, policymakers all over the world need to find a way to agree to ensure sustainable long-term use of the oceans. only yesterday, members of committee on fisheries voted on my opinion concerning an agenda for the future of our oceans in the context of the 2030 sustainable development goals. in this opinion, we recognised that the current framework for oceans governance is not effective enough. we therefore encourage more concrete actions in order to accomplish the sustainable development goals. international oceans governance should apply the principles of decentralisation and regionalisation; it should involve all the stakeholders at all stages, from conception to implementation of the measures, and it should be based on environmental and strategic impact assessment.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank all those colleagues who worked together on the report. i believe that we in the european parliament are united and have a common aim to make a coordinated 5g action plan for europe. we are sending a clear message to the member states, regions and all stakeholders, that parliament supports all efforts to reach a comprehensive approach for timely deployment of 5g. 5g is more than a mobile revolution; it will be an innovation engine, bringing disruptive change across industries, creating new quality networks and very high-capacity networks. 5g will enable new high-quality services, which will ultimately improve the customer experience for increasingly sophisticated and demanding digital users. what do we need to make the vision of 5g real? we need the rules to be future-oriented, pro-investment, pro-innovation and in accordance with the principle of infrastructure-based competition. investments are the key for achieving 5g goals. the simplification of the legal framework, flexible models for co-investments, and long-term certainty and predictability are required. we need a clear understanding of what 5g means for all of us. the next generation of ultra-high broadband infrastructure will support the transformation of processors in all economic sectors – healthcare, energy, utilities, transport, automotive industry, virtual reality – and provide flexible and highly personalised services that improve every citizen’s life. we need 5g systems that are able to operate over a very wide frequency range, from below 1 ghz up to 100 ghz. the frequencies of 3.6 ghz and above 10 ghz should deliver extreme data rates and capacity in dense areas. we need the cooperation of all stakeholders in order to fulfil all the conditions within the required timeframe. the key is to harmonise the spectrum allocation processes. the member states should understand that we have to avoid the fragmentation of decisions and solutions if we want to achieve the 5g objectives. the effective collaboration of all – the european commission, berec, the member states, business, regions and regional authorities and consumers – is necessary. we need to develop financing for the 5g action plan in the next multiannual financial framework. it should be at the proper level and use financial instruments, as well as subsidies, if we want to solve the problem of high -quality internet accessibility in rural areas. of course, we need to incentivise private investments, but we also need to have public support. we need to ensure coherent and timely actions at regional and city level. it should encourage cross-sectoral innovation and foster an industry-wide economic cooperation framework. the first step is key. the timely implementation of the changes in all national broadband plans with country-specific recommendations. we need to make sure that 5g will be developed as an integrated set of solutions, and there must be tests and large-scale pilots in all sectors and countries at the same time. the standardisation roadmap for each sector, relying on industry-led processes, is needed. all hands on deck. we need to facilitate smes’ access to the 5g participatory broadband platform, which is key for using all of the resources for the best investment models. it is our obligation for the future.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, without universal access to fast and stable internet connections in this standard, we will not be able to talk about development in areas such as autonomous mobility, an integrated european ticketing system or automatic traffic alert systems. unfortunately, we see a great deal of variation in the process of building the appropriate network infrastructure between member states and between regions. the hard-to-reach mountain and peripheral regions are particularly affected. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to emphasise that digitalisation - as we all know - is a great opportunity to re-industrialise europe. and we talk about this reindustrialization so much because the digital revolution is changing the balance of power. it gives an advantage to economies with large engineering and it resources, while the importance of low labour costs will decline, so europe has a chance to recover a large part of its production from the cheap asian markets. but we should not forget the diversity within europe. and the digital revolution is also an opportunity to reduce the disparities between the different parts of europe. the only thing to do is to seize this opportunity, otherwise the existing inequalities will only get worse. we must take action now to prevent this. mr bütikofer spoke of a new industrial revolution; i would like to point out that this first industrial revolution permanently divided europe with all its political and economic consequences. we should work to make sure that this kind of division doesn't happen in this digital revolution.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, thank you very much for all the comments, i think that it is very important. i have a number of short points to make. firstly we need to have some kind of holistic understanding of what 5g means. this was raised during the discussion because while 5g is related to industries, to technologies and to infrastructures, it is related, first of all, to people. through 5g, i think we can change our way of life and live in europe with new services, a new healthcare area, new education reforms, and so on. secondly, we need to take comprehensive action, so we need to work at the same time with many sectors of industry, we need to cooperate with regions and cities and, first of all, we need closer cooperation among member states because certain decisions will depend on member states. thirdly and importantly, this is a way to create new competitive advantages for the european economy and european industry. the last and most important point is that we need to avoid fragmentation, because i think recent years have shown us that, in areas related to digital issues, we are fragmented. so, in thinking about the digitalisation of industries and about the 5g action plan, if we can avoid fragmentation, and make it work together, i think we will achieve our goals.
in writing. the report on the digitalisation of european industry rightly notes that the ongoing industrial revolution is an opportunity for europe to create a competitive and strong economy. it is important to create a coherent policy that facilitates innovation, stimulates investment in the economy and attracts global specialists. the focus should be on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. the strategy to be adopted by the union must be uniformly implemented and continuously monitored in order to prevent the emergence of a digital divide. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, including the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings, and the purchase of equipment and services for the construction of buildings. at the same time, it should be noted that the changes brought about by the digitisation of industry are, in a sense, forcing legislation to adapt to new forms of work linked to remote work or work via online platforms. another important issue is cybersecurity, whose framework should be regulated and prioritised as soon as possible.
madam president! i think that in the case of andrei babiš we are still dealing with a case of an obvious conflict of interest between the political and the business functions. however, there are serious doubts as to whether this should be the subject of a debate in the european parliament. i have to say, i'm amazed at the selectivity of the attention of my colleagues and the subjects of the debate. when the head of the french secret services, a close associate of the french president, ordered the french journalist gérard davet to be spied on, did the european parliament take any action? have we ever dealt with the political control of the cdf television in germany? when it was recently revealed that the head of one of the major swiss-german multinational companies was instructing polish journalists on how to report on the political situation in poland, did the commissioner take any interest in this or did his colleagues take any interest in it? so let's leave the czechs to their own devices and take up the general debate on media freedom in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. we have listened to a long debate between colleagues from the czech republic, from all political groups, and i have the impression that with the exception of perhaps the epp, each of the three political parties represented here says: we are able to deal with this internally, at home, in the czech republic. and that's good news, i think, because it means both recognizing the seriousness of the problem and declaring your ability to solve it. the commissioner mentioned that the commission wants to move towards greater freedom, greater pluralism and to recommend this direction in the media, in the european union. i would also like to add that citizens deserve to be informed and to be able to hear different opinions and points of view in all media. another thing that i think is very important is that media workers and journalists are people of public trust and we should expect a lot from them. not just to work for them, but to expect them. and i am very happy with the view expressed here that the media and journalists should not be treated as instruments as in the cases mentioned by mr poc or mr zahradil not be puppets, not be political activists.
madam president! i have the strong impression that in the work of the european union institutions we are dealing with what in our official language, in relation to georgia, we call selective justice. we're talking about hungary, poland, the czech republic, and somehow we're not talking about, for example, france introducing formal pro-abortion censorship, yes, censorship of online media. we don't talk about the euthanasia excesses in the netherlands despite the calls to really react and deal with it. we're not even talking about the wiretapping of journalists in italy, because i don't think anyone in this room would consider that an expression of media freedom. nor are we talking about the difficulties of communicating with parents in their native language in germany. and as for deputy prime minister babiša, i just want to point out that his deputy is an important commissioner in the european commission and that she threatened poland with cutting eu funds if we pursue the wrong policy. and maybe that's what we should be doing.
in writing. shaping public opinion through the media is a great challenge and responsibility. the key to maintaining a proper democratic mechanism is to separate the media from political influence so that they are fully independent and reliable. the political crisis in the czech republic has revealed many weaknesses in the institutions on which democracy is based. the combination of the functions of minister of finance and owner of the mafra publishing group by mr. andrej babiša is a clear conflict of interest, not only from the point of view of ethics, but also from the point of view of the quality of democracy. therefore, today's debate in the european parliament is a good sign that the international community is watching the current situation in the czech republic. this is a signal to politicians and czech voters that should become a reference point during the upcoming parliamentary elections in the czech republic scheduled for 20 and 21 october. there is a suspicion that the events of the last few days are part of a low-key election campaign, perhaps also a presidential campaign, ahead of the january 2018 elections. putting personal interest and private ambition above the principles of ethics and transparency in the actions of politicians is a warning to voters against entrusting them with state functions. each state authority is responsible for strengthening the institutions that safeguard democratic standards. failure to meet these standards has led to public discontent, which was expressed in the czech republic by citizens in street demonstrations involving thousands of participants.
in writing. the current uniform visa form was introduced in 1995. since then, significant progress has been made, especially in the field of electronics and information technology, and although the security of this document has been strengthened twice to meet technological developments, high-quality counterfeit visa stickers have appeared in the member states in the last few years. it is therefore important in my view to amend regulation (ec) no 1683/1995 of 29 may 1995 establishing a uniform format for visas and to design a new model for the visa sticker in order to prevent its falsification and to ensure the security of visa circulation in europe.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i should like to begin by congratulating and expressing my appreciation to the rapporteur, mrs bergeron, and to the co-rapporteur, mr nebrescu, for the way in which they have prepared this report. we know who we're talking about, we have recommendations for action and a definite timetable. many of the arguments have been made and there is no point in repeating them, but i would like to refer to the essential point: we are talking about citizens of the european union. if we want the union to be not a union of states, governments or coalitions, but a union of citizens, then this is where we need to show our sensitivity. yes, this is the citizens union. i believe that in the context of the union, we should not only speak to citizens about those who are healthy, young and wealthy, but also - and to the same extent - about those who are in need. in this respect, the objective has been achieved. once again, my warm congratulations to the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur.
in writing. demographic changes in europe have led to a significant increase in the number of adults with special needs. more than 50 million people worldwide are now over 80 years of age, and according to the united nations committee on economic, social and cultural rights, there will be 137 million of them by 2025. adults in need of special care include not only the elderly but also young people with reduced mental or physical capacity. each member state of the union has its own legal framework for the protection of adults with special needs. however, one of the fundamental standards of the union is the principle of free movement of persons and there is currently no uniform legal framework within the union to provide adequate protection for such persons in cross-border situations. this constitutes an obstacle to the exercise of the right of free movement by those persons and hinders the protection of their property. it is therefore necessary to close this loophole. it is certainly not a question of harmonising the protection measures existing in the various member states, but of introducing a set of legal principles to facilitate the recognition and enforcement of judgments and of devising other mechanisms which would make it possible for powers of attorney to circulate and be recognised in all the member states of the union in the event of judicial proceedings being necessary.
madam president, i would like to ask for the referral back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
100mb/s is a certain minimum for all consumers. 1 to 100gb/s for large financial firms, industry, transportation, transportation institutions is actually the norm right now. i would like to point out one thing: by accelerating the development of all the qualitative elements of the digital market, we are, on the other hand, creating a very serious digital competence gap, a certain digital exclusion. and i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize the need for educational tasks, especially in schools, to reduce these exclusions in the digital market.
the economic instrument for ukraine is a good idea, which is why i supported it. but i want to draw attention to two important elements: firstly, the emergence of this instrument is a response to the situation in ukraine, which, in short, is bad, both in terms of the state of the economy and, more importantly, in terms of reforms. these reforms were to improve the economic situation, the financial situation, and the functioning of the economic operators. but i want to call on this vote to ensure that this instrument is directed primarily at small and medium-sized businesses and not at the most important large oligarchic operators, because this will not improve the situation in ukraine. and here it is also worth noting the need to build certain mechanisms to support civil society and small businesses, for example in belarus.
the report had a rather unfortunate side effect, i don't want to say unfortunate. it turned out that 40% of the european population lacks what is called digital competence. my colleague šojdrová spoke about the educational needs, and i can subscribe to that. but i want to take this opportunity to point out the misinterpretation of these digital competences. it's not just about clicking or being able to turn on a computer, but it's about being able to use the internet, the network, this digital resource to do work. and we have to distinguish between the competence element, which is about having fun, using all of this digital stuff just for fun, and the competence element, which is a tool of the profession, of the work that you do. i am drawing attention to this because there are many misunderstandings.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by ms sofia sakorafa on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the union in the partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean area (prima) jointly undertaken by several member states (com (2016) 0662 c8-0421/2016 2016/0325cod) (a8-0112/2017).
i think that congratulations are in order and i would like to take note with satisfaction of the commissioner's reply, if i may, where he referred to the main speakers of the political groups by name. thank you so much for this debate. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the review of the implementation of the horizon 2020 programme with a view to its mid-term evaluation and the preparation of the proposal for the 9th framework programme (2016/2147 (ini)) (a8-0209/2017).
i ask you once again to maintain the discipline of your speech.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to address parliament today, and i would like to build on the excellent cooperation between our two institutions, and thank you for the continuous and strong support for policy initiatives in research and innovation. today, what we are discussing here is a crucial report for all of us, and i would like to congratulate ms cabezón ruíz and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report. the report includes many recommendations for further improving horizon 2020, but not only that, for further improving the future and the future programme of research and innovation in the future cycle that we are having and that we will have in 2020. so as you know, we are already addressing a lot of these points, the points raised in the report, but i think that it is exactly because we are raising these that we have to take action, like simplification, or eu added value, or excellence and many more that we will address during the next two years and that will be streamlined through this idea of the european innovation council. this report will be a crucial input for the preparation of that future fp9, and we have been preparing in the commission our own interim evaluation over the last month, and it has been a long, challenging and exciting process and it is not over yet. so next october we will publish a communication on the interim evaluation with the political conclusions from all this work. it will also include a reaction to the recommendations of the high-level group, chaired by pascal lamy, on how to maximise the impact of our next framework programme. so today, i want to share with you some of the key findings from the interim evaluation reflected in this report. the interim evaluation shows that horizon 2020 is performing well, is highly relevant for stakeholders and is on track with delivering its objectives. so putting research and innovation in one single programme has produced great results. more than half of the participants in horizon 2020 are newcomers to the programme and we had a 65% increase in applications per year when we compared it to fp7. however, this has led to a serious under-funding problem. today we can only fund one out of four of the many high-quality proposals received. just before coming here, i did the calculations. what does this mean? it means that more than eur 60 billion in additional funds would have been needed to fund all these exceptional projects. i am therefore very heartened by your support for allocating more funding to the eu’s research and innovation. we know that 83% of the funded projects would not have gone ahead without eu funding. this shows that the framework programme is value-added, is eu added value: there is no question about it, because those 83% of projects would not have been a reality if the programme was not there. the eu supports projects that produce patents of greater commercial value, and research teams that receive eu support grow faster and attract more international researchers than their peers. the programme is also on track to meet its knowledge creation objectives. the excellence of our scientific publication is world-class, and they are cited more than twice the world average. so based on the interim evaluation, we have learned some really important lessons that i want to share with you. firstly, it is clear that much more needs to be done in value creation, in supporting market creation innovation in europe. secondly, while stronger than fp7, there is room to strengthen the involvement of civil society in horizon 2020. we have to create and involve end-users, involve citizens to co-design and implement our programme. thirdly, we need to communicate better, to explain the results better. to show people what we do, and that we support the future of all of us through these projects, in a way that people in the street understand. it is also an area where you can help by spreading information about the results and impact of research and innovation and horizon 2020 in your constituencies. on 3 july, pascal lamy will present a report by his high-level group with recommendations on how to maximise the impact of using investments in research and innovation. having read the parliament position, i wanted to share my observations: the complexity, the low-success rate, the decrease in international cooperation and the need for better feed-back to applicants, just to mention a few. these concerns are yours and are mine. we share with you these concerns, we keep a close eye on these issues and envisage the specific measures to address them in the future. your report also paid special attention to ensuring better synergy between research and innovation in other areas, like structural funds in higher education. we have to do more and i count on your support for that. i took note of your concern regarding the balance between research and innovation and i think it is not ‘either or’, it is both. we have to have both. you notice also the issues and differences in rates of participation among different member states and again, we have to do more with your help. i am sure that you will find many of our observations in the interim evaluation interesting, and i am ready to continue our dialogue with you. the interim evaluation provides a solid basis for the future. i count on your support. i count on your suggestions. i hope you count on me.
i think we're talking about the key issues - research, development, higher education. i'm glad we have young people in the gallery listening to this, and it's largely addressed to you. i especially welcome the group of students and young people from lublin and the regions invited by mr piotrovski. i congratulate the member and i congratulate the participants. just don't clap, because that's not allowed.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in the ninth framework programme, we will have divorced the uk. the uk, whose top universities and scientists are a significant contributor to global, but above all european, science, will only support us as a third country in the ninth framework programme. this presents the challenge of making science and innovation in the rest of the european union better able to cope with global competition than it has been in the past. the evaluation of the implementation of 'horizon 2020' indicates that three conditions must be met in order to do so. first, more money from the european union and from national budgets. we therefore call for an ambitious budget for the post-2020 framework programme: up to €120 billion. but the challenges facing the union are also enormous - they are very dynamic, from the migration crisis to the economic crisis, demography, health, space, climate. there are many things that we cannot predict today, but science will have to catch up, and we have to provide the tools and the means to do so. we expect the list of these challenges in the framework programme to be reviewed and adapted to real needs on an ongoing basis. we also call on member states to meet their commitments to spend 3% of gdp on research and development. structural funds or framework programme grants cannot be used to plug holes in national budgets. second, the new science governance should be about less bureaucracy and more impact. grants must remain the most important source of funding for research. loans and other financial instruments are complementary. the new eic portfolio should help to better support market-driven innovation, to promote joint research for science and business, to fill the 'death valley', to strengthen joint ventures that are already showing clear success. we also need better integration in the management and funding of science, for example by effectively linking the next framework programme funds with structural funds, so that no euro spent on r & d is wasted. we can't afford that. new innovative solutions should significantly strengthen europe's competitiveness, create jobs, but above all support the most innovative industries and thus the well-being of europeans. but we must not forget pure science, even if its applications take years to be discovered. third, we need new quality for new times. the resolution stresses the need to open up the framework programmes to those countries and regions of the union which are currently only marginally involved. if we want to build a genuine european research area, not just a paper trappings, we need to tap into the potential of the whole of europe and ensure that no genuine scientific talent is wasted. therefore, the most important criteria for funding should remain scientific excellence and soundness, rather than the routine and the habit of the academic-industrial environment. scientific power can only be built by risking funding for every breakthrough project that exceeds the imagination, regardless of the country or region where it originates or the institution where it originates.
i'm very sorry, but this is a 100% overtime and i would ask that we not do it again because i'm going to be ruthless.
i'm very sorry, but i'm asking for a little time discipline. we have to finish this debate before midnight, so i'm gonna turn off the mike, take advantage of the privilege.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for all his hard work and good balance between fundamental research, applied research and innovation, innovation and innovation – let me underline this word three times! key global economic challenges lie in front of us and eu framework programmes are the tools to achieving our goals and to overcome the challenges. my first point: i welcome recommendations to strengthen horizon 2020, and with the budget of eur 120 billion because this is not expenditure; it is, as a matter of fact, an investment in our good future. point number two: we have, of course, got the most important goal – to continue building our excellence within the european research area. on the other hand, we must address performance gaps and bring the low-performing regions back on track if we want to win. on the basis of the ambitious design of fp9 we should try to eliminate those gaps completely. a small remark may be detailed at the end: very important – research on defence industry, which could be something like a leverage in many other fields, i would like to thank ms cabezón ruiz for incorporating my amendment on this topic into the text.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: thank you very much for your good work and your hard work. i think there is a consensus building in this room on the need to increase the budget for horizon 2020, on integrating it into other eu policies and, most importantly, on achieving a higher success rate than before. i want to draw attention to one element that is missing from this debate, and that is the need to involve cities in the programme. more cities than regions, in my opinion. cities are the places where universities, research institutions, big companies operate. they are places of particular interest for development and innovation and i think the commission should consider a much more intensive participation of cities as partners in this programme. that's my recommendation.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to raise three issues related to horizon 2020. first thing you need to do. the huge territorial disparity between the beneficiaries of the programme requires an explanation. i hope that the evaluation announced by the commissioner, which is due to be published in october, will include an attempt to answer the question of why the intellectual potential of all the member states is not being used as evenly as possible. case number two. you also told us that only some projects can be funded because of budgetary constraints, but that does not mean that good projects should disappear. i therefore propose that the excellence seal be extended to research proposals within the framework of an excellent scientific base. this will allow these projects to obtain funding from other sources. case number three. many of my predecessors have mentioned the need to increase synergies between horizon 2020 and structural or investment programmes, but this requires a much greater commitment from the national focal points and the european investment bank. one last thing. thank you, commissioner, for noting the need for cooperation and correlation between the european research area and the european higher education area.
mr. chairman, please! why are there reports of this time that is running out? first of all, to make the next perspective, in short, better, without gaps, without flaws, to run more smoothly. i think my colleagues in the debate have completed that report. barbara kudrycka talked about the need to increase funding, improve the relevance of grants. jerzy buzek said, among other things, that we must strengthen defence, that defence and that security, which depend on scientific progress. we need to strengthen the industries and technologies that are related to space. and i'm very comfortable with that, and i'm not going to argue with some of the individual diagnoses, but i want to say in conclusion that it's very important that this next perspective is more flexible, because then we'll be more efficient in responding to events that happen at a certain time.
mr. chairman, please! the 'horizon 2020' aims to build a european economy based on knowledge and innovation and thereby increase the competitiveness of european markets and businesses. moreover, the programme contributes to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and other important community policies. it is without doubt the largest and most ambitious programme of its kind in the world. this does not mean, however, that 'horizon 2020' is not flawed. as mentioned in the report, the success rate is alarmingly low at below 14%, which may directly affect the withdrawal of less experienced participants. another concern may be the trend away from grants towards loans, which in turn represents a high risk for investors in the case of highly innovative research that is expected to revolutionize the way markets work. maintaining grant funding, continuing to simplify and remove barriers to synergies between funds, and ensuring a balanced mix of small, medium and large projects is one of the key challenges for the future of horizon 2020ˮ.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgets. commissioner, mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the debate in the european parliament on the future of cohesion policy is taking place at a very important moment. firstly, the european parliament has started work on the future financial perspective and we are following very closely what is happening in the commission and we look forward to the reflection paper that you and commissioner oettinger are preparing at the end of june. we're very interested in what's going to be in this document, and it's going to be a big influence on what we do in the future. at the same time, several important governments in europe have spoken out on cohesion policy, and this too is being closely monitored by parliament. the conclusions from malta are extremely important to us because the work in malta was really about trying to translate scenarios for the future of cohesion policy. this is the first attempt of its kind to show the tangible consequences of the various solutions for the european union. the debate on the future of the european union is really a debate today about the european union in general, what the european union is supposed to be, what its policies are supposed to be, how it is supposed to function. the question of the shape of cohesion policy itself is partly fundamental, partly technical, because on the one hand we know well that cohesion policy is the key to the european union, and on the other hand we know that, for example, no changes can be made to the next perspective, as the commissioner has said, because the delays in this perspective are so great that we cannot afford to invent new methods and new solutions. today, what is most important to us is simplification, and what is most important to us is the answer to the question of what, from today's perspective, cohesion policy should be strengthened and extended, and this is actually the key to the whole thing and this will be the argument for maintaining this policy in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report on the components of cohesion policy beyond 2020 is intended to be the european parliament's contribution to the debate on its future priorities. i think it is extremely important that we have a clear and common position. there is no doubt that cohesion policy is one of the pillars of the european union and, as a unique tool on a global scale, it is the eu's trademark and hallmark in our cities and regions. it helped to ease the effects of the crisis and now investment is being revived. we therefore want to make a strong statement: cohesion policy after 2020 must retain its important place in the eu budget, at least as much as in the current financial perspective, because it benefits the entire union economy. while cohesion policy is clearly doing its job well, there is a need to work continuously to maximise its potential. hence the important proposals for further simplification of procedures and, above all, as i always stress, for greater flexibility so that it can better respond to unforeseen events and local and regional authorities can freely adapt it to local priorities and realities. i also urge us to be aware that cohesion policy is an integral part of the european economy as a whole. therefore, a balanced approach to its linkage to business management processes should be maintained.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr marco affronte, on his report, which sets out the important issues of fish stocks and their socioeconomic impact in the mediterranean. many of these issues are also relevant to the baltic sea. i believe that we need to protect both stocks and fisheries, especially small-scale fishermen. the first priority is therefore to regulate and limit industrial fisheries that have a degrading impact on these sensitive ecosystems and their resources. the coastal inshore fisheries by boat should be supported and protected using a regional approach. in the context of recreational fishing, i share the rapporteur's view that recreational fishing, also in the baltic, is very important for shipowners but above all for the local community and deserves effective support.
the deputy rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the pension gap is the average difference between the pensions of women and men. in the european union, it is 39%. this is obviously the average, because there are countries that have a gap of about 45 percent, and there are countries where it's only 5 percent. we must realise that the gap we see today is the result of decades of history of the functioning of women and men in the labour market. whatever we decide today, it won't change the present, but we can change the future. that is why we are talking in the constance le grip report about preventing the pension gap in the future. the pension gap is a consequence of differences in the overall career progress of women and men. every interruption in work, every break for childbirth and childcare, every case of part-time work instead of full-time, delayed promotion, a worse negotiated first salary reduces the amount of the pension. the same is true of the wage gap or working in lower-paid sectors and lower-paid jobs. all these characteristics - part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part-time, part- of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the whole is the that's why women have lower pensions than men, especially women with children. that's the extra, embarrassing aspect of the story. women, because of motherhood, enter the labor market later than men, because of caring for parents and grandchildren, they leave the labor market earlier, they negotiate their first salary more cautiously, they advance more slowly. sometimes they are out of the job market for years. it is no coincidence that the highest employment rate for women in the eu is in the 40-50 age group. it is no coincidence that the employment rate for women over 65 is 8% in the eu. ladies and gentlemen! the reasons why women earn a lower pension accumulate throughout their working lives. so the pension gap is the best, most summarised indicator of gender inequality much more accurate and true than the wage gap, because it covers a wider spectrum of time and causes as well as effects. it's time to start using it. the 40 percent gender pension gap in the world's richest economy based on social justice values is embarrassing. no wonder politicians are racing to find solutions to this problem. unfortunately, not all ideas are good. the main reason for the retirement gap is the lower participation of women in the labour market, shorter working hours for lower wages. that's why we need to look at the labor market. the european commission's proposal a work-life balance package responds to these needs. we'll put it in the report. women must have the chance to earn their retirement, but it cannot be at the expense of the family. it is therefore necessary to compensate for the interruption of work due to the birth of a child by means of state pension contributions for the time spent on maternity or parental leave. but this action must be kept within a reasonable framework. the pension gap must also be addressed in the pension system, but proposing, for example, a guaranteed pension regardless of work history - because such proposals were also dropped during the report - must be opposed by politicians who seek effective and lasting solutions focused on the gender gap rather than on pensions as such. the report presented by constance le grip is a balanced, rational proposal, in which we link the pension gap and potential solutions to the causes of the phenomenon, according to the opinions of experts. i call on all members to support this rational line, because the status quo is unacceptable and the experts are clear: the pension system is only marginally responsible for the low pensions of women. to close the pension gap, women need to be able to work out a pension that is commensurate with their qualifications and potential, on an equitable basis. we also need to monitor the pension gap continuously, and for this we need adequately collected data and appropriate indicators to adjust our policies and reduce the pension gap in the future.
mr. chairman, please! three weeks ago, the committee on women's rights and gender equality of our parliament was on a mission to poland, during which it met with a number of feminist organisations. the leadership of the commission, however, refused to meet with women's organizations that were committed to the right to life and family rights. the leadership prevented the members of the committee from getting acquainted with the point of view of this part of polish public opinion and interested women's organizations from publicly discussing with their opponents. this exclusion is unfortunately the worst proof of discrimination against women's groups defending life and the family, and also against members of our parliament who are concerned about their position. i look forward to a reaction from the leadership of the european parliament on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! after the introduction of the preparation with the sound name ellaone in poland on prescription protests of opponents of conception began, however, it is still a question for many doctors on what basis the sale of an untested preparation, namely ulipristal acetate, to children without a prescription was allowed, while the description of the medicinal product states that the contraceptive, depending on the cycle also early-term, is not intended for children and adolescents, and its safety has been determined only in women over eighteen years of age and on a limited number of girls, which is a scandal and should cause concern. the thirty milligram dose of ulipristal acetate, which may be doubled as indicated, is significantly higher than that given for uterine fibroids, in which endometrial monitoring is indicated due to the development of histopathological lesions. i could list other side effects, but it would take a few minutes.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr tamburrano and herbert reul from my group for an excellent job. what is important in this solution, especially after the discussed and approved corrections, is that the energy enabling framework allows customers to be more aware of the energy efficiency and consumption of household appliances such as dishwashers, televisions and fridges, which will help them to reduce their energy costs. this regulation also contributes to the moderation of energy demand and the achievement of the union’s energy efficiency targets, so there are macroeconomic savings and advantages with this solution. it establishes deadlines to replace the current a++ classes with an a to g scale. it also sets out a procedure for rescaling labels based on technological development, thus also providing incentives for innovation and pushing less efficient products out of the market. this will make energy labels more understandable for consumers and help them make better informed purchasing choices. the proposal also contains clearer rules on promotional campaigns and national incentives to promote higher classes of efficiency, and aims to improve enforcement mechanisms and transparency for customers by creating a platform with a database of products covered by energy labelling requirements. the revised energy efficiency label, together with eco-design, can save households close to eur 500 per year. it has a clear microeconomic advantage. so let us start together, consumers and businesses, the real implementation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur who, after the vote in the envi committee, tabled amendments to the plenary session which also took account of my concerns. it is good that the rapporteur is restoring the flexibility mechanism of 280 million tonnes of carbon dioxide from the lulucf sector by extending it to forestry. it is a pity that my proposal to increase the flexibility mechanism to 425 million tonnes was not well received, so that we can promote forest development and good forest management practices, which is in line with the spirit of the paris agreement. proper action in the forestry sector will offset emissions to a large extent. furthermore, i think it's unfair to allocate units to promote the richer countries. the designation of the reference point for the years 2016-2018 is disadvantageous for the poorer countries. in order to maintain policy continuity, it is necessary to set an emission level starting from the end of the current accounting period. i also disagree with raising the reduction ambitions by setting a trajectory to reduce them from 2018. as for the proposed reserve for poorer countries, it will only minimally compensate for their enormous effort. the position adopted by envi is therefore unacceptable.
mr. chairman, please! all these objectives of the paris agreement are extremely important, but i think we should also reflect on the fact that we should be consistent in our actions, including in the european union. for example, the author of the report talks about accelerating the reduction trajectory in relation to the commission's proposal from 2020 to 2018. the question is, is this fair? this is not supported by the position of many member states. on the one hand we are talking about this report, and on the other hand there is the very complementary report by mr linz, which will be discussed later. perhaps it would be worth discussing these two reports together. mrs mcguinness also spoke of the burden on certain sectors, such as agriculture. in some countries this can be a serious problem, and this also requires some kind of reflection. finally, i think we need more coordination so that our decisions in this area are coherent and so that the objectives set out in the paris agreement can be achieved.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i hereby close the vote.
the member who has just spoken is right, of course. she's very comfortable with her performance, and she says the important things. i would like to ask the house to leave the chamber in an orderly fashion. i'd like you to transfer all calls to the phone booth, or the restaurant, if you prefer. congresswoman, i think we can begin.
mr. chairman, please! energy efficiency is very important first of all in industry, in the economy, but it's no less important in households. and so, to be highly energy efficient is not just to save money in your home, but also to save money on the world's natural resources. it's about promoting sustainability, which is the essence of the times we live in. energy efficiency also boosts technical, technological development, and therefore innovation, which is very important. we have already discussed this in parliament today and we will continue to do so. the amendments to the regulation are therefore justified and necessary. i support them.
mr. chairman, please! horizon 2020 is a huge programme worth €80 billion. europe must look for instruments to maintain its competitive edge in the global market. i believe that the main instrument in this day and age is innovation. unfortunately, most countries spend less on innovation than the europe 2020 strategy has set out. i remind you, this is 3% of gross domestic product. only four countries exceed this level. in this context, horizon 2020 appears to us as a very important instrument to achieve these objectives. unfortunately, member states are using the fund unevenly, for example central and eastern european countries have used only 4% of the funds so far, while the so-called 'old europe' countries have used over 90%. the conclusion is that more money from this fund should be directed to the countries of central and eastern europe.
mr. chairman, please! it was a good report, but i want to emphasize that even more interesting, even better was the debate itself. there are some proposals in the debate about the next perspective, and i want to draw attention to them. well, what's crucial in the report itself is that it adds security issues: the security of europe, the security of military technology, etc., etc. and the report itself already states that the next perspective should be to increase funding for european security, military technologies, cyber space. but now, in the course of this debate, one important point has emerged, which i would like to stress today: to separate the funding of this issue and not to burden horizon 2020 with these objectives in the future. i think that is a very good solution and that is why this report deserves the support it has received.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
madam president, i believe that the demand for change in europe provides strong legitimacy for difficult and far-reaching reforms when it comes to the governance and functioning of the economic and monetary union (emu). it is true that there are changes feasible within the current treaty framework but there are also others that need treaty change, and of course discussions on decision-making processes are never without controversy. there might not be great haste or great enthusiasm to embark immediately on treaty change. nevertheless, this should not prevent us from analysing where our treaties should be improved. but the challenge is not only to strengthen the architecture and governance of the emu. we must also find a way to strengthen its democratic legitimacy. lastly, we must make sure that the unavoidable integration gap between emu members and the non-eurozone will be mitigated by safeguards protecting the integrity of the internal market and the consistency of policies across the union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. glyphosate has been widely used as a plant protection ingredient or agent for years, and there's been all kinds of discussions about it for years, and in those discussions, we're still operating on too many unknowns. there are still conflicting reports about the harmfulness of glyphosate, and what's more, emotions are often overwhelming in the discussion, and they don't make it easy to have a meaningful voice and to evaluate the glyphosate situation. i am not, however, appealing to emotion, but to a factual and strictly scientific approach to the problem, harmonized first at the scientific level and only later in the economic and social context, with health safety as a priority. although recent studies have shown that there are more cases of carcinogenicity of glyphosate, with some members even suggesting that the european agencies are manipulating scientific data, it is in this context that i am very openly calling on the european commission to, firstly, closely monitor and cooperate with the european food safety authority and the european chemicals agency and others. it is also essential that these agencies work with the us environmental protection agency to jointly develop an appropriate system, firstly to collect and analyse scientific data, but also to develop a specific modus operandi to resolve the uncertainties surrounding glyphosate in a health context. it is not emotions, but scientific evidence, and for that, commissioner, we need more transparency in the european institutions.
mr. chairman, please! after years of clinical, scientific and educational experience in a world where absolute truth is not accepted, sponsored scientific research is a big problem. but despite all this, observations and some experience have long shown that, contrary to monsanto's opinion, glyphosate is poorly biodegradable, its breakdown products can be found in the blood of pregnant women, in the blood of newborns. glyphosate-laced vaccines are injected shortly after birth. the largest amounts, according to the literature, in the controversial long-running vaccine against measles, mumps and rubella. in addition to the suspected carcinogenicity of this herbicide, which has been present in soil and water for years, even by the un body, there is evidence of its effect on the development of birth defects, liver damage, kidney, fertility disorders, allergies, hormonal disorders, which is sufficient evidence to gather reliable studies with the overriding objective of protecting human health and life.
mr. chairman, please! our health depends to a large extent on the quality of the food we eat and on the state of the environment, and i think it is very important that any additives and chemicals we use in food production, plant protection or agriculture are not subject to any doubt. today we're talking about glyphosate, the most widely used herbicide in the world, and looking at the rising incidence of cancer, the declining number of natural pollinators, looking at the various studies, and looking at the monsanto scandal, it's natural that there are a lot of questions and doubts. i asked the european commission last year about the negative impact of glyphosate on human and animal health, which has been reported to cause birth defects, cancers and serious diseases. the commission replied that glyphosate is unlikely to present a carcinogenic risk to humans. this answer contradicts the results or the opinion of the who, which said that glyphosate could cause cancer, so i have a question to the commission: why, where did these discrepancies come from, based on what studies, what opinion did you give to this answer? i think that these are the credible answers that consumers, farmers, are waiting for, especially in light of the fact that glyphosate is going to be extended in the european union, and we consumers are going to have 100 percent certainty that this is a safe product and that the studies are credible, that they were not commissioned, they were not paid for by the company that is most interested, because it is the manufacturer of roundup or other products that contain glyphosate.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking all the honourable members because, ladies and gentlemen, you have put a lot of questions on the table but, as you know, i will not be able to address all those questions and to comment as we do not have enough time. however, may i draw your attention to this who report which i have here in my hand, because many of you quote the who’s international agency for research on cancer (iarc). here is the iarc report too. i have both reports: from iarc and the who joint meeting on pesticide residues. two agencies – one and the other – which then decided – because this is the final decision – that glyphosate is unlikely to be carcinogenic. when you speak about the who, please read all the documents together, otherwise you will repeat the working group and the very active professor portier, who was a chair of the working group. i met him and we discussed this together. i was in lyons, where we had a lot of discussions. i have visited all the agencies – iarc, efsa – because i am not responsible to judge on science, colleagues, and i do not think all of you can judge on science. it must be understood that we have our framework of actions and the framework is law. you mentioned the monsanto papers but it is enshrined in law that monsanto is obliged to present a study review, because this is enshrined in law. this law was adopted here in this house together with the council. i am responsible for following the law because the rule of law is my basic area in which to act and i would like to say to you, very openly, that we have a very precautionary approach, but do not mix up precautionary approach and precautionary principles. we do the same: we have a precautionary approach and then we use the precautionary principle: we ask efsa, we ask the echa for an analysis. and then nowadays we have all the agencies at eu level. the 28 eu member state agencies did the same. echa did the same, efsa did the same. that is all, colleagues. please, then, do not ask me to present another scientific review. i would like to present you with a scientific view that goes into a very detailed explanation but iarc and who are not european union agencies, they are global agencies, but we take those outcomes into account too. please tell me: how can i act in this situation? my answer is very simple. i would like to follow only plant protection product legislation. otherwise i will be in a dangerous situation. ok, i can show you all the materials i have. i have a lot of meetings with my colleagues from the s&d group. i have a lot of meetings with the greens. i know very well that you have your own approach. here is the monsanto tribunal paper. here you can see the urine test. here you can see seven reasons why we can ban glyphosate. colleagues, this is about politics, it is not about science. but i read it very carefully because some write, quite rightly, that it would be good to ban glyphosate because this would give a very good momentum to promoting organic farming. i am not against promoting organic farming but sorry, it is not about science! it is about your political platform! ok, i respect your political platform but i would like to follow the instruments which are in our hands. i know that scientists have a slightly different approach. professor portier has one approach. john little sent me a letter today and a lot of their working group people are very active discussing this. ok, we will continue those scientific discussions. i welcome those discussions. it would be good to organise scientific debates and move forward, but we must follow our legal obligations, and i would like to say very openly that i am ready to fulfil my legal obligations. when i started in 2014 i had doubts because i listened to you and i had doubts about our european union system. today i would like to say very openly – let me reiterate this – that i firmly believe that the european union system concerning the approval of active substances to be used in plant protection products is robust, trustworthy and ensures the highest safety standards for human and animal health and the environment. and this is true, colleagues. i spent two and a half years but i would like to say that today i am a big believer in our european union safety system. please follow me. i would like to invite you to organise debates and once again address those issues in a more detailed way. i don’t know who is repeating that i said i can drink glyphosate as a glass of water. sorry, i never, never, told you such a thing. i would like to mention that glyphosate is, as you know, labelled – this is a hazard classification –as corrosive, causing serious eye damage, hazardous to the environment and toxic to aquatic life, with long-lasting effects. this is on the label. ok, we need to move forward and to see how to manage the situation and how to keep our instruments to guarantee levels – hazard approach, risk approach – and then to fulfil our obligations and of course also finalise our decision. otherwise it will be very difficult. please look, research the consequences of ignoring science and efsa conclusions in the field of plant health. we now have an entire region infected by xylella in puglia. can you imagine the disaster in puglia? there is no treatment for this, the only possibility is to remove the trees. those people who attacked the efsa proposal to remove those trees did not listen to me – and what is happening today in puglia? but the scientific advice was clear. with regard to conclusions about glyphosate, we have today conclusions built by echa. then i have legal obligations, colleagues; six months or until the end of this year. i know that it is only me who will follow the rule of law but i would like to fulfil my obligations. with regard to the idea to have an inquiry committee, please do it; i will be more than happy to look at your inquiry compared to the monsanto papers. please do it because it will be very good to cooperate with you, and from the commission side we have no grounds to start with the inquiry procedure but maybe parliamentarians have a bit more space for manoeuvre. please do it. i will be more than happy to communicate, to coordinate our common knowledge and to present to you the whole picture. sorry, friends, but i would like to say that the commission approach is very clear, based on science, based on precautionary principles. i am a medical doctor, colleagues, and i know how difficult it is to encourage my patients to use medicines in the proper way. you always know how difficult it is to manage medicines but without medicine you have no chance of moving forward. i know some of you have it in mind to propose glyphosate-free agriculture in the eu. yes, please do this, please organise a pilot project, encourage farmers to do it; but it is not up to me, it is not up to science. friends, i am very happy to listen to you very carefully but, sorry, i do not touch all the questions about transparency because i have answers about transparency. i have discussed those issues in a very detailed manner together with efsa, together with echa, together with iarc, together with those working groups and i think we will see possibilities after refit. move forward, but we will do it together. you know, you are also responsible in regard to risk management and risk communication because those messages which are being disseminated today create distrust. we live in a very difficult society where distrust in science creates a lot of problems. it does not matter what – medicines, vaccinations or plant protection products. blaming each other is very dangerous. i would be happy to be the scapegoat, the bad guy, but i count on my teams, i count on dg sante, i count on our specialists, i count on our scientists around the world – a lot of scientific communities which presented a common picture. and only a few create a lot of problems. sorry, friends, i would be more than happy to move forward together with you in responding to your questions, but i trust in science.
i'm not going to let you go. we were particularly impressed by your last speech, in which you heard 32 opinions and statements. it was a real debate. i don't know if you've convinced everyone, but i'm sure everyone feels satisfied that they've had a decent exchange of views. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. glyphosate has been widely used for years as a component or stand-alone plant protection product and has been the subject of debate for years, as it is a highly controversial substance. there are still conflicting reports about the harmfulness of glyphosate, and in my opinion, there are serious concerns about its safety. the authorisation of glyphosate in the european union expires at the end of the year, which is a great opportunity for the european commission to ban its use altogether. unfortunately, an attempt was made to renew its authorisation again, despite recent studies showing further cases of carcinogenicity of glyphosate and the german environmental protection agency documenting a serious negative impact of glyphosate on biodiversity. organic farming is proving at every turn that glyphosate is not essential to its productivity, and the agriculture of the future must be based on high biodiversity, a wide variety of crops and working in harmony with nature, not against it. i therefore call on the european commission to monitor pesticide research closely and to cooperate closely with the european food safety authority and the european chemicals agency in this regard.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (2017/2703) (rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. as many have noted, the situation in the democratic republic of congo has deteriorated dramatically since last year, when president kabila promised to hold democratic elections by the end of 2017. but today, after six months of promising negotiations between the united nations and the congolese government, the situation in the country is cause for concern. attempts to extend the presidency by joseph kabila have made people's lives insecure and threatened not only by the army but also by rebel groups and militias. and that's often tolerated by the government. in addition to this crisis - which the commissioner has also mentioned - instead of security, we are faced with a humanitarian tragedy affecting almost 7.5 million people in this country. reports and reports from the congo give us an alarming picture of the state of the country. there are human rights violations, racial and ethnic crimes, the use of children in the activities of military groups, violence against women, etc. we are also concerned about attacks on aid workers. i think political stability in this region is very important and it can also help us in future development aid, not just humanitarian aid, and not just in this region, but on the entire african continent. that is why our action and this resolution are so necessary and why we should take part in this active effort to stop the political crisis in the congo.
mr president, i share the commissioner’s assessment of the situation. i would like to stress several issues though. firstly, the necessity to implement a political agenda based on the accord of december 2016, the strengthening of the monusco performance, full implementation of the un security council mandate without national caveats, as well as the important implementation of an independent investigation of violations of humanitarian and human rights law. there is one other item as well: the criminal aspects of mining for minerals in congo, a possible spillover effect and the necessity to strengthen the rules of international trade applied in congo.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, we had a very rich exchange and i am very grateful to the honourable members for their valuable interventions. it bears testimony to the eu attachment to the resolution of the crisis in the drc. the european union’s link with the drc is a link between citizens, between families and between communities. we care about the situation in this great country at the heart of africa, so we want to do whatever we can using the tools at our disposal. first, to accompany the congolese people through the current crisis; secondly, to support them and build accountable institutions that will stand the test of time; and third, to help them deliver good governance and, of course, a sustainable democracy. from this debate, i conclude that we all share a common interest in engaging with the drc authorities in order to carry the transition forward until the elections, provided that there is increased respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. if this is not the case, we will draw the consequences. so we will continue following closely the situation in the drc in every dimension. i completely agree with you that one of the most important issues is humanitarian access. i know this issue well because of my responsibility in my mandate, my portfolio, and as i discussed with some of you, i will try hard to find ways to reach vulnerable people in all regions of the drc. this is why i have humanitarian access as a top priority, because it is the only way to provide humanitarian assistance to all people of the drc. at the same time, i completely agree with you that we must keep up our pressure in every dimension in order to see as soon as possible democratic elections. it is the only pathway in order to see a better future for the congolese people. at the same time, i greatly appreciate parliament’s essential role in keeping the drc on the international agenda. i can assure you that we will continue to use all tools at our disposal to assist in bringing a durable solution to the current crisis, and i engage to keep you fully informed on developments, in particular on humanitarian access. thank you very much for this very rich exchange.
thank you very much, commissioner. as you noted, it's not often that closing statements are met with applause, and that's what happened today. i congratulate you. i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the humanitarian situation in yemen (2017/2727 (rsp)).
i have listened very carefully to the whole discussion that has taken place here. i've been trying to follow the events in yemen for a long time, and i have to say that what has been heard here and what we probably agree on is that we will not resolve the civil war in this country if the powers of the region continue to interfere in this country and defend their positions of power. so i think, commissioner, that there is a great opportunity for the eu's international action to put pressure on countries like saudi arabia, like iran, and to try to bring the issue of yemen clearly to the table in negotiations with them. for example, saudi arabia is our most important trading partner. in the case of iran, we have an agreement, and mrs mogherini often talks about improving relations with that country, and yet iran is playing, in my view, a very negative role in meddling in yemen. so i urge you, commissioner, to be more active internationally on this issue and to put pressure on the countries around yemen.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, our discussion has been a very useful exchange and i thank my dear colleagues for their constructive speeches. from this debate, i gather first of all that we all share a common sense of urgency, and, at the same time, a strong commitment in the spirit of the conclusions on yemen that were adopted by the foreign affairs council, aiming to step up the european union’s role in assisting the warring parties to find, without delay, an urgent solution to the crisis, and of course to find ways to reach a peaceful agreement – not now, not tomorrow, but yesterday. i conclude from our debate that eu engagement must be based on a comprehensive approach – this is high representative federica mogherini’s approach, because she knows well all the implications in the region – while at the same time encompassing all our diplomatic tools and political commitment combined with our development assistance and of course continued delivery of the much needed humanitarian relief. i know well, as commissioner for humanitarian aid, the major problems for humanitarian access. i would like to say here that we try hard to find new ways for humanitarian access to meet vulnerable people, but on the ground i have to admit that sometimes it is very difficult, and sometimes it is impossible. likewise, you have been clear in stating that member states should fully support the eu in this common endeavour through their bilateral actions and initiatives. i would like to give you some details about our humanitarian assistance and development in more detail in terms of funding. my service, echo, has allocated eur 70 million for 2016, for specific humanitarian projects in the humanitarian field alone. the total echo allocations since the beginning of the conflict is eur 120 million. a new pledge of eur 123 million was announced this year, as i said at the pledge conference in geneva. meanwhile, devco has allocated eur 52 million in 2015, and now we are preparing eur 200 million for the period 2018-2020, focusing on resilience, stabilisation, health, and food security. i would like to close by signalling once again my appreciation for the role of this political body, parliament, in keeping this often forgotten crisis on the international agenda. i remember that many times, in many international fora, when we tried to raise awareness about the yemen crisis, sometimes as the european union we were alone. so i am sure that your attention in particular to the yemen crisis, in these conditions, in these circumstances, is quite important to maintain this crisis on the international agenda.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, these last three years since the council adopted the human rights guidelines on freedom of expression online and offline have been particularly difficult for journalists and bloggers all around the world. press freedom and freedom of expression are under attack. in several parts of the world violations and abuses have become more frequent, even in democratic states and societies, including in our own region. the european union will not accept this situation as the new normal. over the years we have continued to support the freedom of journalists and bloggers with public statements or, where necessary, with quiet action behind the scenes. in recent weeks we have raised our voice on a number of specific cases, from turkey to egypt, from mexico to belarus, just to name a few. since the adoption of the guidelines in may 2014, the council working party on human rights (cohom) has organised three discussions on implementation of the guidelines. these exchanges constituted an opportunity to evaluate with member states the general state of play of freedom of expression but also the actions taken by the eeas, the commission and member states to implement the guidelines. in addition to these regular exchanges, cohom has also engaged with civil society on freedom of expression and media freedom. the latest exchange at cohom took place last november with member states and commission services. it was an opportunity to discuss the state of play of our policies in support of freedom of expression. the european union’s commitment to freedom of expression online and offline has been renewed in the new eu action plan on human rights and democracy (2015-2019), including its regular reporting on implementation. in practical terms, freedom of expression continues to be raised on a regular basis in human rights dialogues and the consultations with partner countries. i can mention laos, azerbaijan and bangladesh as the most recent examples. let me also emphasise that the eeas and the commission organise regular specific training sessions on freedom of expression for eu and member states’ staff, including eu delegations, with the active participation of representatives of civil society. in addition the eeas and the commission have regular contact with relevant civil society organisations active on freedom of expression, in brussels as well as in the context of human rights dialogues with third countries. i would like to recall that civil society organisations were associated from the beginning with the drafting of the guidelines and took part in the 2014 december ngo human rights forum, dedicated to freedom of expression online and offline. this work has changed the lives of many journalists and bloggers. in some cases it has been a true life-saver. the european instrument for democracy and human rights, through its emergency support mechanism, provides protection to journalists both professional and non-professional. we counted more than 200 interventions since 2015 to support people threatened for their defence or practice of freedom of expression. since january 2017, a new technical assistance programme, financed by the instrument for democracy and human rights, assists eu delegations in the implementation of the guidelines. our aim is to build on best practices and enhance the capacity of eu delegations to work more intensely and creatively. looking ahead, the estonian presidency of the council has chosen freedom of expression as one of its human rights priorities. this will give cohom the opportunity to further evaluate the implementation of the guidelines, in close cooperation with estonia. an informal cohom will take place on 19-20 october 2017, including a discussion on the lessons learned from implementation of the guidelines. this discussion will include different stakeholders, such as representatives of eu institutions, international organisations and civil society. press freedom and freedom of expression are central to the european way of life and to whom we are. we europeans will not get used to the violations. we will continue to act quietly or vocally, depending on the situation, for everyone’s rights to report, to criticise and to speak up.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to thank you for this information, but at the same time i would like to thank the next presidency for wanting to take up this subject, which is important for many reasons. as you rightly pointed out, there are many elements which indicate that in the area of freedom of expression there has been a sharp increase in the recent past in the actions of many countries, of many regimes, against the media, against people who have the right to speak not only in their own name but also in the name of the whole of society. the right to express one's opinion in public is a basic human right and nothing can change that. secondly, it is also a right to human dignity, because a person who has the right to speak is also respected in this respect. free and diverse media are essential in every society to protect freedom of opinion, expression and other human rights. following the letter of the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights, the european union reaffirms its determination to promote in its external policy the right which every individual can and should enjoy. we recognise that both political and financial instruments - such as the eidhr - can help to tackle violations of these rights in a consistent, timely and coherent manner. i would also like to point out that other instruments and funds can also support this area, such as the european endowment for democracy, which is a unique tool for enhancing freedom of expression online and offline.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we talk about the world, about the violations of freedom of speech in the farthest places from europe, and we do not see that in the heart of our continent, the union and our countries, in france, this year, the so-called anti-abortion law was adopted, which allows prison sentences for journalists working on the internet, which allows high, destructive media, financial fines and despite calls to take a stand on this issue, the authorities of the european union have actually been silent so far. so often we boast about our soft power, that our opinion matters in the world, that through words, through telling the truth, we can make a difference. i'm not going to let you do this. this is a very important occasion for you today. you mentioned other countries. i ask you to take a stand on what happened in france, because it is not too late, our voice can have meaning.
madam president! as you know, the human rights working group has decided that there is no need to evaluate the guidelines on freedom of expression online and offline. and this document, as we know, should set the course for the eu and member states' representatives in their relations with third countries. but one wonders if this restraint in judging is not related to the fact that in europe itself we have great problems with judging what is freedom of opinion and expression and what is hate speech that should be eliminated from the public sphere. as my colleagues have already said, and mr jurek in particular, the problem we are seeing and trying to stamp out in third countries is increasingly present in the countries of the european union. of course, no one in europe jails or tortures journalists, but exclusion from the public sphere, marginalization and intimidation are also commonplace, and the example given by... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! this year marks 22 years since the dayton accords were signed, 18 years since the end of the kosovo war. this report, which presents very well the tasks for serbia then and now, both the progress and what lies ahead for serbia in the accession negotiations, is a source of some optimism, so to speak. president buzek once said that we managed to prevent the return of conflict in the western balkans in a surprising and simple way because the countries of the region were in line to join the european union. that was an important statement, but it is not enough: we too must make a lot of effort. this is the value that the union and we have to remember this has this attraction. there is no shortage of voices criticizing and questioning the value of the union, but i think it is worth recalling this in this debate when we talk about serbia. the report should not only be an encouragement to the serbian government, but above all it should be a specific encouragement to the serbian citizens that it is worth continuing the reforms, which are sometimes difficult and sometimes perhaps even incomprehensible at a given stage. it seems that even the fact that commissioner hahn pointed out that we have provided more than two billion euros to support these processes is worth noting. there is much progress in the area of economy and democratisation, and new chapters have been opened but we also know that there are many changes needed in the areas of human rights, media freedom, the judiciary and recommendations for, for example, amending some constitutional provisions. i also want to emphasise the important role that ombudsmen can play. last year we organised such a conference summit of eastern european and eastern partnership ombudsmen with the participation of western balkan ombudsmen. i think it's worth continuing this work as well.
mr. chairman, please! the european council's agenda now includes issues that determine the credibility of the european union: migration control, security, reducing terrorist threats, brexit. these are the hot topics of the european debate these days. this is where human fears are born, and from these fears, anti-european populism draws its power and fuels it. it is indeed a test of the european union's effectiveness and usefulness in the eyes of ordinary citizens. as for migration, the obvious challenge today is the route through libya and the mediterranean, given the collapse of the libyan state and the emergence of an organised human trafficking industry. the commitments already made must be implemented, there is no time for declarations (manfred weber spoke of this). the maltese declaration needs to be implemented and the european asylum system reformed. as if that were not enough, for the first time we have an unpredictable partner on the other side of the atlantic, and it makes sense to organise our own european insurance policy. however, while it will be difficult to find common ground with the president of the united states on climate or world trade issues, the european union's defence dimension should be built in full synergy with nato, as i do not rule out that president trump will confirm us commitments in poland, where he will arrive on 6 july. the joint declaration of the european union and nato adopted last year in warsaw should also serve as an inspiration.
mr. chairman, please! today, once again, president juncker blamed the disastrous mistakes of his own policies on the central european countries - poland, hungary and the czech republic. but the solidarity he spoke of is not about taking responsibility for someone else's mistakes. solidarity is about helping someone in need who is not at fault. if you have a bad policy, you really have to learn from it. president juncker is talking about the law. law is also political responsibility. these eu authorities should resign because even the declarations on combating illegal human trafficking have not been fully implemented. we all appreciate what our sailors are doing as part of operation sophia. it's saving people at sea. but the truth is that the illegal immigration industry is still operating and destroying europe, and those who have watched passively are teaching those who do not accept the consequences of this situation.
in writing. over the past year, we have come a long way towards making the european union a major instrument for increasing the investment in defence technology research and improving the capabilities of the member states' armed forces. the commission's proposals for a european defence fund, as well as the establishment of, inter alia, the military planning and conduct capability (mpcc), which is responsible for planning and conducting non-offensive missions of a military nature, are steps in the right direction. however, while some actions are proposed by the european institutions, the concrete and tangible decisions are left to the member states. the european parliament has repeatedly reaffirmed its support for strengthening defence and security cooperation. it has been a forum for constructive discussion on this issue. however, it is the member states that must confirm their willingness to act collectively. it's time to do something. the plans are ready. the ideas analyzed. i think we've had enough of the call to action. the only thing missing is political will. i hope that this will be expressed clearly at the next european council.
madam president! the paris agreement gives each party the opportunity to use its own terms. it doesn't take decarbonization, it values the role of forests in the carbon footprint, it's about sustainability. following the withdrawal of the united states from the paris agreement, the eu's climate policy should be reviewed. i would like to warn against the thoughtless reaction of unilaterally exaggerating european ambitions to fill the void left by the united states. our efforts alone will not save the world, on the contrary, they will make european industry even less competitive. i call on you, commissioner, to make the paris agreement the foundation of a european climate policy that does not involve decarbonisation, that values the role of forests in the co2 balance and that focuses on sustainable development.
mr. chairman, please! well, we live in a time when, perhaps for the first time in human history, we are deciding not only our own destiny, but the destiny, the future, not just of our children or grandchildren, but of the people who will be living on earth in 50 or 100 years. unfortunately, not all european countries share this view, and even worse, not all countries in the world, including, as we've recently learned, the united states. it's a country that's responsible for 15 percent of the world's co2 emissions, second only to china, which emits 30 percent. in the circumstances we find ourselves in, we should therefore perhaps rethink our strategy for achieving the goals of the paris agreement.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report on the non-ets sectors because the consequence of adopting the proposed regulations would be to widen the development gap between member states. the proposed solutions promote the richer countries by unfairly allocating units of annual emission limits. in addition, the setting of the reference point for the years 2016-2018 is disadvantageous for the poorer countries. in order to maintain policy continuity, it is necessary to set the emission level starting at the end of the current period, i.e. 2020. i also disagree with raising the level of reduction ambitions by setting a trajectory for reducing them from 2018. the proposed reserve for less prosperous member states will minimally compensate for the additional effort. i recommend that we return to the foundation of climate policy, which is what the paris agreement should be.
mr. chairman, please! in the european union, women receive an average of 30% lower pensions. this is due to the cumulative effect of inequalities and barriers. the barriers that women face in their careers. they receive lower pay for the same work, they are much more likely than men to take part-time jobs, they take time off work because they need to combine work and family life. women do a lot of social work, looking after children and family members, but unfortunately, this is not reflected in the economic benefits they receive. women can't be economically penalized for being mothers. their underappreciated contribution to society is of great value. i therefore agree that there is an urgent need to take priority action to close the pension gap. i think the report was balanced and its scope suggests a good direction for change. unfortunately, it contained a number of contradictory statements, so i abstained.
mr. chairman, please! i did not vote for the report on the need for an eu strategy to eliminate pension disparities, because the european union has no competence in national pension policy and should leave parents free to choose between working and family life. however, i abstained because of the problem of mothers who give birth and raise children, which affects their pensions. this is why we need to give the member states a direction. where possible, i have made amendments to reduce pension inequalities, which the report has somehow taken into account by encouraging the introduction of contribution points and family and widow's pensions as compensation for what are defined as invisible and not overvalued activities in the form of housework and care for family members or for formal care periods such as maternity leave.
mr. president, we are politicians and we should speak with an open mind. what was the basis for the success of the european coal and steel community and the eec? and the fact is that these countries, first six, then nine, ten, twelve, fifteen, have reached a certain consensus, they have agreed on a certain minimum and they have agreed and acted together - in solidarity - but no one voted for anyone by force. i will remind you of the famous dispute between france and the five other founding members over the agricultural policy, when the eec was still in its infancy, and it was finally decided that it would be better for the common action if no single country felt prejudiced. i therefore believe that the basis for the success of our common european project will be that we act in solidarity in the sense that it will be a consensus and we will not vote on fundamental issues, because this is the road to nowhere, it is a steep slope.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate, the founding fathers are back, we are going back to the origins of europe, and this is entirely justified for axiological reasons and the principles of integration. the founding fathers of europe felt that human rights, family rights, the common good, democracy were at the foundation of christian culture. i fully understand manfred weber's point, unlike mrs sophia in t veld, that it is impossible to understand european culture without a christian identity. but i cannot accept that the religion which gave strength and vitality to european civilization is treated with shame or censorship. the second issue is the defence of market integrity. this was very strongly present in the minds of the founding fathers, and today the enemy of market integrity is above all protectionism, and often the protectionism of rich countries represented by governments that close markets at the expense of competition and at the expense of the future of the european economy.
mr president, during our work in the committee of inquiry on the so—called panama papers, the word ‘malta’ has come up very often. i would like to say to the prime minister that this was mostly in the context of very worrying information about high officials from his country being involved in various activities that raise suspicion of being linked to money laundering and corruption. given this information, we decided to organise a fact—finding mission to malta, during which we met with representatives of intermediaries as well as with journalists and some government officials. prime minister, unfortunately, your chief of staff, mr schembri, whose name appeared in the panama papers, refused to meet with us, while another member of your cabinet, whose name was also exposed in the panama papers, minister konrad mizzi, failed to convince us of his innocence. we find it absolutely unacceptable that a high government official from an eu member state refuses to appear before the parliamentary committee of inquiry to testify. moreover, we also find it very worrying that you, as prime minister, have not suspended both mr schembri and minister mizzi from their government duties until the legal investigation in their cases is completed. the failure to do so, prime minister, has seriously undermined the credibility of your country and yourself personally at the crucial time when malta holds the presidency of the european union. it has also sent a bad signal to european public opinion. i am sure you agree with me that winning elections does not allow you or your government to sweep such problems under the rug. here in this house, we all expect that you will make sure that an honest investigation into these two cases will take place without delay.
madam president! a year and a half after the efsi was launched, the results of its work are quite satisfactory. but not quite. the complementarity with other european funds should be emphasised more strongly. this complementarity will give us the opportunity for more economic growth. the draft resolution rightly noted that the efsi support is not uniform and that action should be taken to eliminate these disadvantages. this is particularly important for less developed countries. i want to believe that in the countries of the so-called new union, the efsi will help in a real way to implement projects with a higher degree of risk and will strengthen the eu's cohesion policy and the process of balancing economic opportunities between our countries and regions, which has been one of the priorities of the union's socioeconomic policy for years.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the debate on the implementation of the efsi after one and a half years of its operation, it should be underlined that the estimated amount of investments to be launched is around eur 160 billion, or more than 50% of the total amount of investments to be launched by 2018. unfortunately, the distribution of efsi-funded investments across the territories is very uneven. by the end of 2016, as much as 90% of the funds were directed to the old '15' and only 10% to the 13 new member states. for example, in the area of infrastructure and innovation, three countries, the uk, italy and spain, had a virtual monopoly on the use of efsi funds, receiving almost 65% of them. in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, italy, france and germany received over 36%. recognising that the wealthier member states have greater access to funds from market-based funds such as the efsi, i would stress that in the coming years these efsi use ratios must be shifted significantly in favour of the 13 new member states.
madam president! the european fund for strategic investments is undoubtedly a very important instrument with a real impact on increasing investment in europe. although its effectiveness cannot yet be fully assessed, the current data provide optimistic perspectives, while also pointing to areas for improvement. first, it is important that the fund be used by all member states. it is therefore necessary to consider how to support countries that have not benefited from it or have benefited only to a limited extent. secondly, it is important that the fund works in synergy with the european structural and investment funds to ensure that funding is facilitated. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of capital injections, which were not granted to the bank. it is therefore appropriate to avoid supporting projects which by their nature should receive support from other union programmes and funds.
in writing. our priority in the committee on employment and social affairs over the opinion on the european fund for strategic investments was that co-financed projects should generate new jobs. to this end, we have requested appropriate monitoring of the impact on the labour market. unfortunately, despite the fact that a year and a half has passed since the project was launched, we have no information on how many new jobs have been created as a result of the investments supported by the project. the european commission did not provide this information in its report, as it does not collect such data at all. this does not mean, of course, that no new jobs are being created. the very fact that a large part of the fund's resources is directed to the sme sector suggests that it contributes to the creation of new jobs. however, it is currently difficult to estimate the impact of the fund on employment in europe. that is why i am calling on the european commission to collect such data! i would also like to draw attention to another important point. when we look at the use of the fund, we see a clear geographical concentration of investment. half of the member states received more than 90% of the funds invested. it is worth considering whether the money is actually going where it is needed most.
in writing. the efsi has had a satisfactory performance. however, we must ensure that we can make full use of this instrument and improve its performance. i believe that in order to make better use of the efsi, a strong emphasis should be placed on its complementarity with both the european structural and investment funds and other eu funds. such synergies would make it easier to generate sustainable economic growth. i would also like to point out the high territorial concentration of the funds paid so far. we should understand the reasons for this allocation and make sure that in the future the less developed regions are better able to use the efsi funds. it is therefore necessary to seek to increase expertise and technical assistance for these regions. in particular, the efficient operation of the european investment advisory centres should be emphasised, which should also benefit from local expertise through cooperation with the relevant national institutions. i believe that the above will help to make more efficient use of the funds and will also help to launch both high-risk and innovative projects in countries that have been using efsi funds less well. such action will also help to achieve one of the overriding objectives of eu policy, namely to level the economic playing field between countries.
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) was established to mobilise €315 billion of investment in the european union, including by providing guarantees for the financing of economically and socially important projects, mainly by the private sector. after a year and a half of operation, the fund's performance is generally well assessed, although there are also assessments that, instead of promoting innovative projects, the eu guarantees were used to promote also those projects for which there are doubts as to their compliance with the established selection criteria. with this in mind, i believe that in future more attention should be paid to ensuring that investments supported by the fund lead to employment growth, generate sustainable economic growth and contribute to deepening economic, territorial and social cohesion. in addition, while attaching great importance to the development of investment within the european union, i believe that, regardless of the size of the eu budget in the period 2021-2027, strategic investments should be particularly protected.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. according to eurostat, in 2015, more than one in four children in the european union were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the situation is most difficult in single-parent families, where almost half of the children are at risk of poverty, and it is also very difficult in large families. these data clearly show that the weakening of the family institution has a particularly negative impact on the material situation of children. therefore, strengthening the family should be our priority. the experience of my homeland, poland, shows that investing in the family brings tangible benefits. in 2016, we launched the 500 plus family program, which reached 55 percent of the children. this program has reduced poverty by 48 percent, and extreme poverty among children by 94 percent. therefore, to effectively address child poverty and social exclusion, family support and adequate social support are essential.
in writing. i welcomed the fact that the european commission and the eu council have taken up the issue of child poverty. although the causes of child poverty are diverse, they are not only due to family financial problems but also to educational background, living conditions or migration history. the challenges in this area are common to all member states and should be addressed not only at national but also at european level. the latest eurostat data from 2015 is alarming indicating that in almost all eu countries, children are more affected by poverty than the general population it is estimated that about 27% of the youngest suffer from this problem, compared with 25% of adults and 17% of the elderly. it should be borne in mind that the poverty of households particularly affects the children growing up in them, as it threatens their health, proper development and socialisation, hinders their access to education, which obviously translates into difficulties later on in the labour market and in getting out of poverty in adult life. the disadvantaged situation of children in europe should therefore be reflected in increased action on their behalf . the problem requires a multi-faceted approach, investment is needed in a labour market that is not efficient enough to fully protect families from poverty, in an education system to facilitate access to education for children from poor families, and in a social welfare system to support families at risk of social exclusion more effectively. i 'm not .
in writing. one of the objectives of the eu's europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the number of people living in poverty by at least 20 million by 2020. but the context rarely speaks of specific groups of people to be favored in a special way. child poverty is not just a one-off social problem, but a factor that affects their entire lives and the future of their families. it should be noted that children from low-intensity households are 56.7% more likely to be at risk of poverty or social exclusion. however, the risk of child poverty also persists in families with high work intensity, including in countries such as romania, lithuania, portugal, spain and greece. in addition, women are more at risk of poverty than men, and combating poverty among women is also essential in efforts to reduce child poverty. more and more children are suffering from malnutrition, leading to the emergence of diseases that have been largely eliminated in the eu, such as rickets. in some countries, the percentage of children who cannot afford to eat the recommended amounts of certain foods is increasing.
madam president, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs very much. for some, online platforms represent one of the biggest regulatory challenges. they fall under existing eu regulations such as consumer protection, competition, data protection and e-commerce. i believe this is sufficient. we do not need one—size—fits—all solutions, because online platforms take various forms: internet search engines, purchasing platforms, platforms for cooperation or sharing of certain goods and services, social media sites. the key issues for the report are transparency, the use of information, the relation between platforms and their suppliers, the conditions of switching between comparable services offered by platforms, and a model of the liability of online intermediaries, including ways to tackle illegal content. but be careful about redundant expectations. companies cannot play the role previously held by national courts and legislators in judging what is or is not illegal or bad. in a digitally changing world the functions of platforms can be changed every day, so we have to monitor the current situation, checking whether any new rules are needed or not.
in writing. – i support the enhancement of the collaborative economy, as it provides citizens with further possibilities for flexible working arrangements and additional sources of income, which are very important mainly for young people, part-time workers, seniors and other workers threatened by exclusion. however, the business models of collaborative platforms must be unquestioningly in compliance with the existing legal framework. although i see a rapid growth and increasing importance of the collaborative economy, i am not convinced our legislation entirely responds to the challenges of this sector. therefore i call for further optimisation of the legislation, in order to maintain the high level of protection of all stakeholders involved. moreover, we need a clear system of rules that would prevent risks of tax avoidance and unfair competition towards traditional sectors and incumbent actors. on the other hand, in order to fully benefit from the potential of the collaborative economy, the eu should promote a culture of sharing and assist providers of collaborative platforms to gain the trust of mass markets. the collaborative economy leads to more effective usage of resources. for example, shared car rides do not just help to reduce traffic jams and tackle the problem with parking in cities, but are also more eco-friendly.
in writing. there is no doubt that the sharing economy has developed extremely dynamically in recent years, leading to a major change in the way products and services are delivered. this type of economy offers many opportunities for european consumers, who benefit from more competition, tailor-made services, greater choice and lower prices. at the same time, however, so-called co-consumption has become a challenge for established business models in many sectors such as transport, accommodation, catering, services, retail and finance. this has led to calls for the creation of specific regulations for the sharing economy as soon as possible. however, i believe that the main issue is how to maintain fair conditions of competition for all operators in a free market and how to avoid restricting or even eliminating co-consumption. it is also worth noting that the sharing economy in europe has a number of specific features related, among others, to the structure of european business, which is mainly composed of micro-enterprises and smes. i therefore warn against the consequences of over-regulating new business models, which would be extremely difficult for smaller operators to cope with.
in writing. the rapid development of the collaborative economy, also called the social economy or social consumption, has changed the way the market for the supply of products and services operates. the concept of the social economy is very broad and covers a range of activities based on different business models based on cooperation, including on non-commercial principles. this has the effect of blurring the traditional boundaries between consumer and supplier, worker and self-employed person, and professional and non-professional provision of services. this poses a challenge to eu legislation in many respects. one of the positive impacts of the sharing economy is environmental and social sustainability in economic development. in order to maintain such development, it is necessary to ensure consumer protection independent of the level of professionalism of the service provider. equally important is the protection of employees of undertakings who, due to the unusual legal nature of the activity carried out, may not be subject to the relevant labour laws. uniform legal standards should be established in the field of tax law in order to avoid the possibility of an expansion of the grey area and unfair competition with legal entities operating on the market. responsible development of the social economy can bring many benefits to consumers, who will benefit from increased competition, as well as to workers through the creation of new jobs. it is therefore important to ensure that this sector has access to the capital necessary for growth and cross-border competition.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i am not dutch, so i will not be particularly sorry that there is an investigation into dutch, belgian or french ports. but it will undoubtedly be less of interest to know the methodology used by the commission, how the investigation is going, what needs to be established, what the findings are, why. i agree with the other speakers that the seaport is not a pure business. it's a service, it's an object that represents a general economic interest. secondly, it is part of the transport system, and we want to develop the transport chains from the sea to the land; moreover, we would like to transfer part of this system to the sea via the sea highways. therefore, the investment in the seaport is of interest to me primarily from the point of view of infrastructure. infrastructure is not the most desirable factor for making big profits, infrastructure should be available at a reasonable price, because it serves to increase the competitiveness of the economy. this is the transport mission: to make the european union's economy more competitive. i would also like our taxation policy to take account of geographical balance and the needs of weaker regions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, as a friend of both georgia and azerbaijan, i am most concerned by the case of afgan mukhtarli. his abduction, allegedly by georgian services, is a serious blow to the reputation of that country. the triggering mechanism and unfortunate violent finish was somewhere in azerbaijan. the investigation, as energetic as possible, should be carried out in both countries, and we have to support the silent diplomacy of commissioner hahn, postponing the vote on the resolution.
madam president! let's not argue in this room today about when we should vote on this resolution. let us talk about freedom of speech, which is undoubtedly one of the most important values, one that is particularly dear to every european. we should therefore be determined to oppose any form of violation of it. we particularly disapprove of such brutal repression as that of afghan mukhtarli, who, as an independent journalist and an outspoken critic of the azerbaijani government, was kidnapped in georgia, forcibly transported to azerbaijan and arrested on dubious charges. it should also be stressed that mr mukhtarli's case is not an isolated one. therefore, i strongly emphasize that there can be no consent of the european union to political prisoners, and we call on the azerbaijani government to release them. i believe that this requirement must also be one of the points of the eu-azerbaijan partnership agreement negotiated since february this year.
madam president! the arrest of afghan mukhtar is a disturbing development for all those who care about peace and stability in the south caucasus region. if the doubts about the place and course of his arrest and the charges against him are finally confirmed, it will certainly not be beneficial for the strengthening of bilateral cooperation between the european union, azerbaijan and georgia, whose services also seem to have played an indecent role in this matter. however, i am glad that the joint text of the resolution also reflects what has been achieved recently, particularly in the field of cooperation within the euronest parliamentary assembly. building a democratic state in such difficult geopolitical conditions is a huge challenge faced by many countries in the post-soviet area. we certainly need to do more to support this process, including in the economic dimension. if there's any chance of success for commissioner hahn's mission, we should postpone this vote.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 june 2017.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on pakistan, in particular the situation of human rights defenders and the use of the death penalty (→point 1.6.10).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in indonesia (2017/2724 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in indonesia, 500 churches have been burned in recent years. until recently, there were violent protests against the construction of a church in the heart of the country, jakarta. very symbolically, in terms of anti-christian hatred, was the trial of jakarta governor ahok, who was sentenced to two years in prison for saying that muslims could elect a christian to public office. this simple statement that the public has the right to elect a competent politician was considered blasphemous against the koran, or - as we would say in our language - islamophobia. ladies and gentlemen! it is really time for this parliament to acknowledge the existence of anti-christian hatred in various parts of the world, to call it by its name. it is also my call for the commissioner, when she concludes the debate, to take the opportunity to condemn expressis verbis the anti-christian hatred that we see there and in many other places in the world.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 15 june 2017. (the sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
as you suggested, we waited a moment for all those interested to stay in the debate and for those not interested to leave. i would appeal to those colleagues who are still in the room and not speaking to move their internal discussions outside the chamber. we move on to the explanation for the vote.
ms d’amato, your metaphor about wines was very interesting!
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
member of the commission. – mr president, i will not repeat questions, but simply say ‘question 1’, etc. let me stress that eu member states may observe the international day of the family in their capacity as united nations members. observing the day offers a good opportunity to discuss the role of families and the impact of family-oriented policies in promoting overall well—being in europe and worldwide, and in the world of work more generally. as you know, member states are, first and foremost, responsible for social policies addressed to families. nevertheless, the commission has been supporting member states through political guidance in the context of the european semester. european union financial support is also available through the european social fund, the european regional development fund and the fund for european aid to the most deprived. concerning the roles of families in educating their children, the commission reiterated in our recent communication on school development and excellent teaching that the cooperation of educational institutions and parents is key. we will continue to use the tools under the education and training 2020 strategy and the erasmus plus programme to support member states who wish to develop school policies that deepen parental involvement. second question: we share your view on the important role played by families in the welfare of our societies, in particular when it comes to providing care for children and other dependent family members. this is precisely why the european pillar of social rights adopted on 26 april 2017 recognises the role of family members as caregivers and states that parents and people with caring responsibilities have the right to suitable leave, flexible working agreements and access to care services. as a concrete deliverable of the pillar, our new initiative on work—life balance for parents and carers aims to modernise the way in which work—life balance policies are designed to improve the daily lives of many parents and carers. in addition to supporting the provisions of formal care services, we intend to update the european union legal framework in the areas of family—related leave and flexible working arrangements in order to enable working parents and carers to better reconcile their professional and caring responsibilities. in addition, the pillar includes the right to affordable early childhood education and care of good quality. it also states the right to protection from poverty and the right to specific support measures to enhance equal opportunities for children from disadvantaged backgrounds. early childhood education and care is precisely such a specific measure which helps to break the cycle of disadvantage. this is why the commission supports member states in improving access to, and the quality of, early childhood education and care. we acknowledge that family is the first and most important place for children to grow and develop. at the same time, the commission sees early childhood education provision and the family’s role in education as complementary. participating in early education is in the best interests of children and their families. it is in these formative years that we can lay the foundations for a successful life, social integration and employability. the commission therefore considers that the provision of early childhood education is an indispensable part of an efficient and modern social infrastructure. we are also monitoring the implementation of the 2013 recommendation on investing in children. in the context of the european semester, the commission has provided targeted, country—specific recommendations to those member states with the biggest challenges, and we are supporting the exchange of good practices in the area of child and family policy through the european platform for investing in children and the erasmus+ programme. the commission also provides financial support to various ngos, including eurocarers, the confederation of family organisations in the eu, eurochild and the european network on independent living. the actions undertaken by these ngos substantially contribute to raising awareness of issues related to the work of family members. third question: we share your concern regarding the invisible or unpaid work of working parents and carers. this is why the commission put forward this new initiative on work—life balance for working parents and carers. this sets out a comprehensive package of complementary legal and policy measures which will enable both parents to care for their children, thus enhancing their children’s cognitive development and well—being. as regards european union funds, the funding possibilities for children in the existing eu financial instrument have been significantly strengthened in the current 2014-2020 programming period. approximately eur 21.2 billion of the total european social fund’s allocation was earmarked for social inclusion measures, of which eur 3.9 billion is set aside for access to services, including childcare, and eur 8 billion was earmarked for measures to prevent early school leaving. moreover, around eur 11 billion from the european regional development fund is planned for measures promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, while around eur 6 billion are planned for investment in educational infrastructure.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i also wanted to point out that unfortunately, many of these activities are not really conducive to the family, which we know is the natural environment for raising a child. the barcelona targets encourage women to work, although research shows that a significant proportion of them want to take care of their children after they are born. it is proposed, however, that most children should be enrolled in pre-primary education. according to a norwegian study, children in day care have up to 30 percent higher stress levels than those who stay at home. especially in young children, prolonged stress has a very negative effect on development, especially on the brain. it has been shown that the more time children spend in day care, the more antisocial their behavior becomes, and that adolescents in day care are more likely to use alcohol, tobacco, or drugs after the age of 15. i am also personally opposed to the introduction of special incentives for fathers to take the place of mothers in the upbringing of newborns, as these need a more tender, caring and sensitive personality to the needs of the newborn. a vital part of normal development is the childhood period, when the child unconsciously identifies with his mother until the age of two. then, for a female child, the mother remains the role model, whereas for boys, identification with the father begins at the age of three. the differences in the interests of male and female children are evident from the earliest moments of life, indicating that gender differences are built into the cognitive process in the womb.
mr. chairman, please! i want to make a strong case for supporting moldova. of course we cannot hide the truth there are cases of corruption, there are things that should fundamentally change in moldova but this should not be an argument (as argued by mp schaffhauser) for withdrawing from the eastern neighbourhood policy, for withdrawing from the policy of support for european and libertarian aspirations of the moldovan society, which wants to share the fate of free european nations. to withdraw from this game is to agree to putin's domination of that part of europe. so let us be careful to follow the rules, let us not allow corruption to repeat itself, but let us patiently and systematically show support to the moldovan society, which wants to share with us the fate of free nations.
member of the commission. – mr president, frankly i disagree with ms konečná who said that the commission is not doing anything now. it is unfair. i am pleased to attend this plenary session and to talk about hiv, hepatitis and tuberculosis. let me stress that i fully share your concerns about the need for concrete action to address these three diseases. it was our proposal, from the commission side, to link hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis c. why? because the same vulnerable groups, the same people, are affected by those diseases: the poorest people, homeless people, people in prison and so on, people with a stigma – and we have joined forces in saying yes, it is time to show synergy. these diseases continue to cause suffering to millions of citizens across the european union. more than five million people in the eu suffer from hepatitis c. this is very serious. more than 100 000 people need lifelong treatment for hiv/aids, and 30 000 people become infected every year. the latest figures show an increase in hiv across the whole of europe, from cyprus and malta to germany, ireland and lithuania. the economic crisis since 2008 has worsened the situation: in parallel with a deterioration in social and economic determinants, inequalities are on the rise. tuberculosis is a social illness in this respect, and all these aspects show the seriousness of the situation. in recent years we have seen a 40% increase in new core infections of tuberculosis and hiv, and the rate of drug resistance to tuberculosis remains high. in addition to human suffering, these diseases pose serious challenges to our health systems and to our economy and our society across europe, yet much of this suffering is preventable. the message is clear: greater efforts are needed to reduce both the suffering and the costs that these diseases inflict. as you know, health ministers exchanged views on these issues last october and they recognised the challenges, in particular with regard to tuberculosis and hiv/aids. it was our common job, together with the council, to discuss these issues. just a couple of weeks ago at the health council, i also spoke to ministers about the need to intensify concrete action and strengthen implementation efforts to prevent the spread of these diseases. i had very comprehensive debates with the new director of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), speaking about possibilities to renew our activities and once again to strengthen collaboration between members states. in answer to your first question: what concrete action is the commission planning to take to give effect to the commitments made in the abovementioned communication pertaining to sustainable development goal (sdg) 3, ‘ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages’? let me assure you that the commission remains fully committed to helping member states achieve the goal of ending hiv/aids and tuberculosis and reducing viral hepatitis by 2030. the commission reaffirmed this commitment last november in its communication entitled ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’. in this communication you can see our positions and our activities. next year the commission will present further measures to address hiv/aids, hepatitis and tuberculosis as a follow-up to this communication, and in the course of the next year we will put forward action plans to that end. in the meantime, the commission is already fostering cooperation at eu level with member states and stakeholders and is supporting projects and research in this area. the commission has re-launched the hiv/aids, hepatitis c and tuberculosis think-tank. it has also enlarged the scope of the former hiv civil society forum, which now encompasses all hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis c organisations. we have started to discuss very concrete measures, and how to move in the right directions. together we will seek to identify concrete steps to scale up our prevention and testing programmes, to reach out to the most vulnerable and to address social inequalities and determinants. to succeed, i believe we need to combine health instruments with social instruments and work together across health, social and education policies. i will be more than happy to see a very comprehensive approach, together with the european parliament and member states, in this direction. integration of prevention, treatment and care for hiv/aids plus tuberculosis and hepatitis should become standard practice across europe, and we will look at how to do more and to encourage member states to move in such a direction. as for your second question, which i need not repeat: firstly, the commission’s eu health programme is supporting action, in particular, to target the most vulnerable. the commission is currently shaping a new joint action called ‘integrate’ with member states in improving the quality of prevention and care for hiv/aids, viral hepatitis, tuberculosis and sexually transmitted infections. starting in september, for three years, this joint action will help member states develop policies to integrate early diagnosis and care for hiv, viral hepatitis, tuberculosis and other infections. with a co-funding of eur 2.5 million, this joint action will promote capacity-building, training, exchange of good practices and the practical piloting of tools for diagnosis and linkage to care – encouraging member states to use such opportunities and, of course, to do their best at national level. the joint action will notably expand the use of tools to increase testing and linkage to care in healthcare facilities and to facilitate the expansion of hiv home self-testing and home sampling programmes. secondly, the commission is also strongly committed to continuing to support research for hiv, tuberculosis and viral hepatitis. under the horizon 2020 programme, we support development of novel preventative and therapeutic tools to fight this infection. research into the development of prophylactic vaccines accounts for over half of our investment in these diseases: eur 60 million for research on hiv vaccination and eur 26 million for tuberculosis vaccines. thirdly, on the subject of vaccines, to ensure that citizens fully benefit from existing vaccines and other medicines, it is important to make them more accessible and affordable to all, and therefore to encourage member states to engage in swifter cooperation, exchanging practices and experiences, and to increase transparency in the pricing of medicines, for example by using the european integrated price information database (euripid) supported by the member states. i also encourage member states to use joint procurement agreements as a potential means of reducing shortages of vaccines. fourthly, we also need to optimise the use of the existing regulation to allow innovative medicines that bring therapeutic added value to reach patients faster, and to explore fully the opportunities that joint procurement offers. i have also asked the expert group on safe and timely access to medicines for patients (stamp) to move in that direction. fifthly and lastly, the need to support measures to address multidrug resistance to tuberculosis as well as hiv and hepatitis is enshrined in the new commission action plan to reduce anti-microbial resistance, which the commission adopted last thursday. the commission is engaged in establishing an integrated and systematic monitoring system for the 2030 agenda to keep track of progress and to respond to the united nations reporting requirement. it is also necessary to agree on common indicators. on your third question, our action does not stop at the borders of the european union. the commission is also fully engaged in international cooperation to address hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis. i attend a lot of international meetings at which we discuss together common steps. the commission supports global health initiatives such as the global fund to fight tuberculosis and malaria. the eu has actually recently increased its financial support to this fund and to the global alliance for vaccines and immunisation, the co-called gavi alliance. i have high expectations for the first global ministerial conference on ending tuberculosis next november in moscow, which i will attend. in addition, all three eu institutions have recently signed the european consensus on development. this consensus commits us to invest in preventing and combatting communicable diseases and securing affordable medicines and vaccines for all. the consensus is our key external tool for implementing the 2030 agenda in our development cooperation. i thank the european parliament for being one of the co-founders of such a consensus and such a document in which we enshrined a lot of initiatives and set out our goals. mr president, honourable members, i hope and trust you share my enthusiasm to drive matters forward. let us work more closely together to eliminate the suffering that hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis cause. it is hard to contemplate the picture we see today. every day that i am in strasbourg i see people sleeping on the streets – homeless people, who are in a difficult situation. it is our obligation to change the situation and to ensure that such a picture will disappear in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in the case of tuberculosis, the biggest problem at present is multidrug resistance, which is caused by the overuse of antibiotics - not only for treatment but also as growth promoters in livestock - and requires a central eu response, as tuberculosis infections are increasing not only in african and central and eastern european countries but also in rich countries. with over 40 million people living with hiv, in addition to adequate medical care and lifelong treatment with antiretrovirals, there is a need for improved diagnostics that increase the chance of living without aids. however, the most important role in controlling the epidemic, preventing and transmitting hiv to others is played by people living with hiv, which raises the need for their education and the need to inform their sexual partners. however, promoted pre-exposure therapy is problematic as there is no clear evidence to date of the benefits of drug prophylaxis in hiv partners in a situation where the hiv+ partner is in the phase of effective antiretroviral therapy. for many years, after the previous predominance of infections among people who inject drugs, there has been an increase in infections in the msn group: from 12% in 2000 to over 75% in 2014, where the conclusions are self-evident in terms of prevention, including, among other things, the completely ignored here in parliament because i am amending the amendments on sexual abstinence and the responsibility of patients, which is also needed in the case of hepatitis c, where hospital prevention and addiction are important, but the absurdly risky trend towards tattoos and piercings should be ended, especially since effective treatment of hcv is expensive and requires a morally acceptable selection of patients.
madam president! the increase in the incidence of hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis c in europe poses a major challenge to the european union in protecting the health and lives of its citizens. here you said, "well, statistics show that with over 2 million hiv infections in the who european region, nearly 70% of people who are infected with hiv may not know they are infected, which puts other people at risk of exposure, especially sexual contact. in europe tb: 1,000 people a day in europe are newly infected with the disease, despite social changes and improvements in living conditions. sadly, the disease continues to take its toll. and then there is hepatitis c, which is now one of the biggest clinical, diagnostic, epidemiological and social problems worldwide, and in the european union, the main cause of its incidence is the drug problem. the question is, why do we continue to see more and more people contracting these diseases despite all the prevention programs? i think we should update our prevention programs first. secondly, there must be cooperation between countries and coordination of programmes, especially in the era of cross-border movement of people. third, education education of both people who are carriers of these diseases and healthy people so that they avoid the possibility of infection, campaign and access to modern, good, cheap medicines.
ladies and gentlemen! there is no doubt that so-called planned failure of equipment, i.e. deliberate shortening of the life of products, is a phenomenon that is extremely harmful. it's losing consumers who are forced to buy more products too quickly, and it's losing the environment by increasing the amount of e-waste. however, it seems to be becoming more and more widespread, which is why i believe it is crucial to tackle it at european level. the report by mrs durand makes a number of interesting proposals, such as extending the guarantee period or guaranteeing the availability of spare parts, which i believe can significantly reduce the phenomenon of product failure. i think that in the future we should try to promote the concept of selling products as services, for example, selling light instead of light bulbs. this approach would, in my view, be the best incentive for manufacturers to increase the durability and quality of their products.
in writing. – i endorse this report calling on the commission to support the implementation of the minimum resistance criteria in order to secure robustness, repairability and upgradability for all product categories. the initiative follows the results of the survey conducted by eurobarometer in june 2014. the findings of this survey revealed that 77% of eu citizens prefer to repair their goods instead of buying new ones. longer lifetime of products is naturally followed by an improvement in functionality of complementary devices and tools, such as batteries or accumulators, that should fully operate for the whole period of usage of the product. furthermore, the spare parts should be easily accessible on the market and a clear system of labelling, informing about the durability of the product, should be provided. apart from the above-mentioned, more durable products will enhance employment in the sectors of repairs, maintenance and rental services and create opportunities for entrepreneurs and smes. moreover, it will provide further security for low-income households, where every investment in a new device or machine represents a significant burden for a family budget.
in writing. the report highlights the importance of the circular economy and the economic, social and environmental importance for europe of turning waste into a valuable resource. in particular, the impact of longer product life on reducing emissions, increasing the security of supply of raw materials and increasing the competitiveness of european industry, as well as increasing the production efficiency of companies while reducing costs, was highlighted. the problem of speeding up the replacement of goods with new ones is certainly one to be addressed; many businesses, but also households, especially in advanced countries, replace goods immediately after the end of the guarantee, without regard to the continued usefulness of these products. on the other hand, many consumers have lost confidence in the robustness of products due to their current low quality. this is particularly the case for household or high-tech products, which sometimes appear to have been deliberately designed to have a short life cycle. therefore, in my view, it is necessary to examine in detail both the issue of the assessment of the useful life of products and to encourage manufacturers to produce much more durable machines and equipment of high quality, and in addition to this to promote the establishment of repair shops in order to reduce waste and unnecessary pollution.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me first of all thank our colleague cristian dan preda for the work done leading to this report. let me also mention that, although i have got used to the night sessions of this plenary, i still do not find it completely normal that we are running more than two hours late. i will also be here tomorrow night – diligently – but i still think that this plenary could perhaps work in a more time-efficient manner. our work to prevent and address human-rights violations is not only – as some of you pointed out – a matter of humanity and values. it is also a matter of interest and strategy for us. crimes against humanity can spark the next war, propagate conflict or the next refugee crisis; and, in a conflict situation, war crimes make post—conflict reconciliation much harder to achieve, and complicate our work in the post-conflict phase. they destroy the very fabric of society and they spread fear and mistrust, opening wounds that may take decades and a lot of work to heal. for all these reasons our responsibility to protect people and to prevent atrocities is now part of all our main european union policies. i very much agree with your report’s strong focus on prevention, and in recent weeks we have worked to set up a better early warning system inside the european external action service, which also focuses on crimes against humanity. our military and civilian missions have a very special role to play in this regard because, if we want to prevent human-rights violations, we must also engage with security forces in our partner countries, building their capabilities and training them in respect for human rights. i am also glad to see that your report does not forget to address a very important element of what we are working on here, namely sexual and gender-based violence. last year alone, the european union’s aid for the prevention of, and response to, this kind of violence reached almost 3.5 million women, men, girls and boys. our last package in support of the syrian refugees strengthens access to protection from gender—based violence for at least 700 000 syrians, both inside and outside the country. however, beyond prevention, we know that war crimes and crimes against humanity are happening today and that we have a duty to address the consequences. justice is the only effective and sustainable response to such violence because impunity generates more hatred and often leads to revenge and more suffering. so justice is, for us, the only way towards reconciliation and sustainable peace. to achieve this goal, we are bringing into play a combination of different elements: criminal justice, reparations, truth seeking and institutional reforms. i will mention just a few cases where we are currently at work to prevent impunity and achieve justice. in syria we are working for the international, impartial and independent mechanism to be fully operational as soon as possible. the european union is mobilising funds to support this mechanism with up to eur 1.5 million. i know member states are playing their part. i am counting on them and also on your support in obtaining even stronger support from the member state side. in iraq, as new areas are liberated from daesh, it is important to assess any war crimes and violations of human rights. we welcome the commitments made by the federal government of iraq and the kurdistan regional government to investigate swiftly all allegations of crimes committed by the iraqi forces. beyond syria and iraq, last year we led the resolution at the un human rights council to establish a commission of inquiry in burundi and we fully support the african group resolution tabled in geneva last month, which created an international investigation mechanism for the kasai region in the democratic republic of congo. i very much welcome your acknowledgment of our strong work and support in relation to the international criminal court. this is a key element of our strategy. since 2000, we have committed eur 37 million in direct support for the international criminal court. last saturday, we marked 15 years since the rome statute entered into force and, for all those 15 years, the european union has promoted the universal ratification of the rome statute. last year, as you well remember, we faced a crisis. we kept close contacts with many african states after the gambia, south africa and burundi notified their withdrawal from the rome statute and today two of these decisions have been revoked. this is an important achievement, realised in part thanks to the work we have done diplomatically, but we know very well that the work is not over yet. we are currently working on how to improve further the promotion of the universal ratification of the rome statute. this is a complex time for the multilateral system at large and for the united nations and un system in particular, which has come under attack from many corners. so let me conclude by saying that there cannot be any doubt about the eu’s full support for multilateral global governance based on international law, on human rights and on strong international institutions. the european union will continue to be a strong, reliable and indispensable partner for the un and for all who believe that violence must be met with justice and reconciliation. our work, together with parliament, will continue in this direction.
thank you very much, your highness, and i apologize for being two hours late. we're partially justified, because it took us about half an hour to commemorate simone veil, and then we made further delays on our own. i promise you, at the next point, we'll only have five minutes to report from the courtroom. thank you very much for your understanding and thank you for your attention. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 july 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by hilde vautmans, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on private security companies (2016/2238 (ini)) (a8-0191/2017).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you very much. let me start by saying that we very much welcome the report on this issue, which can open a new chapter in our awareness about private security companies. private security companies, as you mentioned, are sometimes essential to safety, including that of european diplomatic and humanitarian operations in the world. on this point the european union is fully in line with the international committee of the red cross, which means we consider that hiring private security companies is legitimate and can be necessary – for instance, they can have an important role in protecting aid workers or people living in conflict areas – but, of course, these companies are not exempt from the observance of international humanitarian law. in their role as security providers, they must always respect the highest international standards on human rights. the report points out that a legal framework already exists. the private security companies do not operate in a vacuum and the european union was the first international organisation to sign up to the montreux document, promoted by switzerland and the red cross, about obligations and good practices for private security companies. it is now essential that we continue to work for this framework to be expanded and, especially, to be universalised. the un human rights council is considering drawing up an international framework to regulate, monitor and oversee private military and security companies, and this un framework could complement and strengthen existing initiatives such as the montreux document forum and international code of conduct association. i am pleased with the increased recognition of the relevance of the un guiding principles on business and human rights and their implementation. their value was recognised in the european union council conclusion on business and human rights adopted last year. i would like to focus briefly on three points about the work ahead. first, if we want to create a better regulatory framework, progress is in the hands of member states: in particular they can contribute to changing our current public procurement directives and rules. as for the external action service all our potential security contractors have to be signatories of the international code of conduct and our delegations closely monitor the implementation of their contractual obligations. second, the work of security contractors is evolving fast, with a growing role for drones, cyber and civilian military operations. our systems of safeguards must be continuously updated and we therefore need the cooperation not only of member states and academics but also of legal experts and ngos. in particular, we need to assess better which services can be outsourced and which have to remain under the sole responsibility of professional armed forces. my third and final comment is about cooperation between the public and private sectors. much of the experience of security services in the european public sector in recent years can be of help to the private sector too. moreover, private security companies are often called on to operate side by side with our military. so it is essential that our institutions continue to engage regularly with the international code of conduct association in order to meet common standards. finally, let me conclude by saying that it has been more than 10 years since public opinion began to hear about security contractors. a stronger legal framework for private security companies is in everybody’s interest: it is certainly in the european union’s interest, so that they can contribute in the right manner to the security of many people, from diplomatic staff to humanitarian workers, around the world.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 july 2017.
the next item is the report by mr neoklis silikiotis, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on working conditions and employment insecurity (2016/2221 (ini)) (a8-0224/2017).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the commission thanks mr sylikiotis for his own-initiative report on working conditions and precarious employment. the report rightly calls for work being transformed through digitalisation and new employment being created as a result of it, to be decent. it also points out the need to guarantee effective protection for workers, regardless of the type and duration of employment relationship, and to address non-standard, atypical and precarious forms of employment, while paying special attention to vulnerable groups. and we hear your call to strengthen social dialogue and promoting the extension of collective bargaining. all these concerns about workers’ rights and opportunities in the 21st century were also raised by different stakeholders last year during the extensive public consultation we organised on establishing a european pillar of social rights. so let me assure you that the commission is taking action to address those challenges. let me give you three examples. on 26 april, we launched a social partners’ consultation to collect their views on the possible direction of an eu action to ensure that people in all forms of employment have adequate access to social protection and employment services. we have also initiated a social partners’ consultation on a possible revision of the written statement directive. we want to ensure clarity for workers and employers on their contractual relationship, irrespective of the type of contract. another important work strand is the european pillar of social rights that we presented on 26 april. among other things, it aims to promote employment relationships that do not lead to precariousness and to deal with the abusive use of atypical employment contracts. we have opened the discussion on how to better align our social security systems with the new forms of work. we want to ensure that as many people as possible, including the self-employed and gig economy workers, are covered and can build up rights against contributions. the pillar also recognises the right to fair and equal treatment for workers regarding working conditions and access to social protection and training, regardless of the type and duration of the employment relationship. in addition, the pillar recognises the right to quality and inclusive education, training and lifelong learning, in order to acquire and maintain skills that enable people to participate fully in society and manage successfully the transition into the labour market. the commission already recognised the importance of reskilling and upskilling last year. a year ago we launched a new skills agenda for europe, calling on all stakeholders to work together to improve skills in europe and keep pace with the fast-changing needs of the labour market and society. last but not least, a word on social dialogue. the commission is very committed to promote well—functioning social dialogue at all levels. this is also recognised by the pillar, which encourages the social partners to negotiate and conclude collective agreements in matters relevant to them while respecting their autonomy and the right to collective action. the commission already supports the capacity-building of social partners in order to develop a broad collective bargaining and effective social dialogue mechanism across the eu. your report raises awareness of the current challenges, such as the rapid digitalisation or new forms of employment that are blurring the boundaries between dependent employment and self—employment. so we need to act now. our common goal should be improving the life chances of every european. we need to keep up the momentum for social europe at all levels. this is why we are aiming at high—level political endorsement of the social pillar by the end of the year. as you know, we have proposed an interinstitutional proclamation of the commission, the council and the european parliament. we count on your support to achieve this goal.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 july 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr bernt lucke, drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, entitled 'towards a pan-european framework for covered bonds' (2017/2005 (ini)) (a8-0235/2017).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bernd lucke, for presenting this report. we welcome the support the report gives to the harmonisation of covered bonds at eu level. we also welcome the broad consensus among political groups on the way forward. this is encouraging in view of our future work and the upcoming proposal. as announced in the capital markets union mid-term review, the commission intends to present a legislative proposal on covered bonds in the first quarter of next year. an eu initiative in my view should serve two complementary purposes. first, we should stimulate covered bond markets as a stable and cheap source of funding for credit institutions, and in return, banks should be able to better finance the real economy. second, we should make sure that our framework is robust enough to justify the preferential prudential treatment granted to it, for instance, in the form of preferential capital risk weights. we welcome the key point made in your report in favour of a principle-based approach, building on the strengths and specificities of existing national frameworks – an approach that would respect the characteristics of national markets that are already working well. the commission will certainly keep this approach in mind when designing our proposals. in addition, there is a great potential in developing covered bond markets in eu countries that do not have them yet, and also in attracting third-country investors. a robust and widely recognised eu covered bond label would be a major help in this regard. we will be analysing all these elements in the impact assessment that will help us to design the future proposal. we note your interest in building on the success of eu covered bonds in areas where this label cannot be used at this stage. i am referring to the so-called european secured notes. the commission is currently assessing the case for developing this new product. we will decide on possible commission initiatives on european secured notes, following the results of our assessment. however, in the first stage, we will concentrate our action on traditional instruments backed by mortgages or public sector loans. let me conclude by stressing again the appreciation of the work done by the european parliament. it is a source of encouragement for our future cooperation in this important field.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 july 2017.
the next item is the report by mrs renata briano, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the role of fisheries tourism in the diversification of fisheries (2016/2035 (ini)) (a8-0221/2017).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i welcome parliament’s own-initiative report on the role of fisheries-related tourism in the diversification of fisheries. as ms briano rightly pointed out in the report, supporting small-scale coastal fisheries, and promoting diversification within and outside commercial fisheries towards tourism activities, in particular at the local level, is important for the socio-economic fabric of coastal areas and helps to improve the quality of life of fishermen and their families. thanks to the european maritime and fisheries fund, which is the structural support tool for the common fisheries policy for the period 2014-2020, member states can implement several of the measures that are proposed in the report. concerning diversification within commercial fisheries, these measures range from training of fishermen, promoting networking and exchange of experiences and best practices to diversification and new forms of income for fishermen. we estimate that these measures amount to close to eur 65 million of european maritime and fisheries fund resources under shared management. as regards the specific support to small-scale coastal fishing, let me underline the fact that the fund permits higher aid intensity rates of up to 80% for all operations related to small-scale coastal fishing. some examples of the latter are: support for young fishermen in starting out, health and safety, diversification, partnerships between scientists and fishermen, training, life-long learning, marketing and processing and innovation. for activities outside commercial fisheries, fishermen can apply for funding under community-led local development, in the framework of a local development strategy. approximately 10%, or around eur 519 million of our fund, is devoted to community-led local development. under the emff, 73% of all local development strategies funded include tourism as an important part of their strategy. therefore, in the current period, the commission estimates that approximately three quarters of all expected 350 fisheries local action groups will have included tourism as one of their main areas of action in their local development strategies. thus, tourism-related activities feature prominently. and this should be surprise. tourism employs over 3.2 million people and generates a total of eur 183 billion in gross value added. it represents over one third of the maritime economy. an important part of that is marine recreational fisheries, which are becoming increasingly important for many coastal communities that rely on tourism. our 2014 coastal and maritime tourism strategy, which you have also mentioned, considers recreational fishing as one of the options for diversifying the tourism offer and for helping address the issue of seasonality. we are supporting this diversification, for instance we have three ongoing projects funded under the emff that are linked to underwater cultural heritage, which is also in line with the 2018 european year of cultural heritage. thematic itineraries along nautical routes have been very successful, and we are currently selecting new projects for funding. in march this year, we presented the nautical tourism staff working document, which analyses a number of actions to be undertaken in the field of nautical tourism. these range from support for the qualifications of professional yacht skippers and recreational boating, to waste prevention and the management of marine litter. you have highlighted the importance of sustainability and preservation of resources. 2017 is the un year of sustainable tourism for development. the commission has been working towards promoting sustainable tourism for many years, through initiatives such as the european destinations of excellence, a commission initiative which promotes sustainable tourism destination models, dealing with seasonality and rebalancing the tourism flows towards non-traditional destinations. sustainable tourism also has an important focus in some sea-basin strategies, such as the european strategy for the adriatic and ionian macro-region, where sustainable tourism is one of the central pillars. also in the context of marine protected areas we work with member states to support the creation and extension of existing marine protection areas, and to ensure that tourism activities in marine protection areas are managed in a sustainable manner, and are preferably distributed in a balanced way throughout the year, avoiding summer peaks. in conclusion, we welcome this report and its emphasis on promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive tourism, also at the local level, by pulling together the resources, contact persons and actions of all the relevant services. we hope that by doing so, we will be able to preserve both our traditional fishing activities and our marine resources, while ensuring the well-being of people living in those fishery areas.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 july 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
ladies and gentlemen of the house! the european commission's decision to take legal action against poland and hungary is either a deliberate division of europe's countries or a complete failure to back down from a misguided immigration policy. both are indicative of the european commission's current direction and methods. there's another side to this. poland and hungary are really under attack because they openly and honestly reject policies that the vast majority of european countries reject in practice. this shows that the european commission is really only trying to perpetuate the ideological lie that the public opinion of the peoples of europe approves of the immigration policy. of course, nothing lasting is built on a lie. the more people in europe realise this simple truth, and the sooner, the more chances we have of fruitful and genuine cooperation between our peoples.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
madam chairman, mr chairman of the commission, madam prime minister, the plus of the maltese presidency is certainly the declaration on the external dimension of the european union's migration policy, i.e. the recognition that we must first of all work to reduce the number of migrants from outside. plus it also has nothing to hide from the reference to the full exploitation of the single market's potential, and hence such skepticism towards productionism. plus it's also a - congratulations - roaming issue. many countries have been working on this, including us here in the european parliament, but this presidency has come to an end. the downside, and it is certainly a big one, is the proposal for a directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. this is indeed a kind of preference for rich countries over poor countries. and there can be no consent here. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much for this important question. it concerns a certain philosophy of the european union, not necessarily the maltese presidency. it is good that the member states, despite the establishment of the presidency of the council, have the presidency and are putting some pressure in the right direction. i can only say that your country romania, as well as bulgaria, should be members of the schengen area, i hope that the estonian presidency will move in this direction.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the draft directive on public country—by—country reporting requires multinationals to publicly disclose all tax information. the idea behind this initiative is to increase tax transparency and to put multinationals under pressure from public opinion, to make sure that large companies pay their fair share of taxes in countries where they create value. this is yet another piece of european legislation aimed at eliminating the harmful practices of tax avoidance and tax evasion in europe. the ppe group has supported the commission’s proposal from the very beginning. we are in favour of more transparency in corporate taxation, but we also want the eu legislation to be consistent with international standards for tax information exchange established by the oecd under the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project, and adopted by almost 100 countries all over the world. with those considerations in mind, we have worked hard to find a compromise that would be supported by all major political groups in parliament. we have made important concessions. we agreed on the disaggregation information, we agreed on an extension of the list of information required, and we finally agreed on the review clause for the threshold. however, we have not come to a common position on the safeguard clause. the left side of this house insisted on much more radical proposals that would go far beyond the commission’s draft and would undermine the oecd beps agreement. accepting these proposals would establish an uneven playing field, with eu companies subject to more demanding requirements for public disclosure than their competitors from third countries. we do not want to discriminate against eu companies and that is why we oppose some of the rapporteur’s amendments that simply put eu companies at a competitive disadvantage vis—à—vis their third country competitors, and which would also make the business climate in the european union less friendly for investors. our objective is to strike a balance between the legitimate demand for more transparency, on the one hand, and the need to protect eu companies in order to guarantee more jobs and growth in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – frankly, i don’t understand your point. i think the whole thing here is about public disclosure of tax information, not about avoiding taxes or tax avoidance. this tax avoidance is a task of tax authorities, and we have to have trust in the national tax authorities that they do their job properly. what we are talking about here is disclosure – public disclosure of information. this has nothing to do with tax evasion. this is one thing. the other thing is that we have to take into account the uneven playing field. if you put this requirement on eu companies and other companies, american, canadians, japanese don’t have the same obligation – that would be harmful for our businesses.
madam president! effective public control of multinational enterprises that evade income tax requires solutions at the supranational level, especially as this problem involves specific losses for the budgets of many member states, not just the member states. i believe that greater transparency of reporting requirements is essential to achieve this objective. i am pleased that the report has managed to balance many controversial issues, particularly, of course, the safeguard clauses. the polish delegation will vote against amendments that undermine this compromise. i am concerned, however, about the pace of the legislative work. it may be due to insufficient analysis and therefore to insufficient precision in the project.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! i don't think, i'm sure, there's a person in this room who's against tax transparency. but we have to approach this in a logical way, and we're talking about things that are contradictory. this report is about country-specific tax reporting, not tax policy. the european union has no competence to formulate tax policy, as this is the competence of individual member states. another internal contradiction is that we say that the financial barrier will only result in half of the companies being covered by this reporting requirement. but, ladies and gentlemen, we are only talking about companies that are european or that operate in the european union. that's less than half the companies in the world. the rest of you will not be under that obligation. where does that lead? to the obvious effect that the competitiveness between our companies, our european ones, and those outside europe will be distorted. and finally, another point, disclosure is absolutely necessary, but to the institutions that are called to do it. public disclosure to journalists or citizens who won't even understand what's being disclosed is not helping, it's only hurting the european economy, because we're giving information to our competition, who will absolutely take advantage of it.
madam president! in recent years, the challenges of corporate tax avoidance have increased significantly, raising serious concerns in the european union and globally. according to the european commission, tax avoidance by global companies costs the eu member states between €50 and €70 billion a year. a new draft law, which aims to increase transparency by informing the public of the amount of taxes paid by multinational corporations and where they are paid, aims to prevent this. the above proposal focuses only on companies with a consolidated global net turnover of more than eur 750 million. it does not provide for any obligations on smes, most of which do not engage in aggressive tax planning. this makes them non-competitive with the undertakings that undertake such activities. in conclusion, the introduction of the proposed public control will hopefully help to strengthen public confidence and ensure that profits generated by global companies in a member state are taxed there, thus increasing corporate social responsibility.
in writing. in the context of increasing mobility and global and pan-european economic activity, it is necessary to take action to streamline corporate governance and support the fight against tax avoidance on an international scale. a key element of this process is the definition of clear rules for the reporting of tax-relevant data by companies. however, in taking action in this area, we must ensure that european union companies are not put at a disadvantage compared to their third-country competitors, for example because of disproportionate reporting obligations that are not imposed on non-eu companies. it should also be borne in mind that the fight against tax evasion can only be effective if joint action is taken at international level. one-sided actions, even the most ambitious, have no real chance of success. i believe that the document adopted by the european parliament is a good one in terms of promoting tax transparency on the one hand and protecting the competitiveness of european companies and the investment climate in the european union on the other. at the same time, i expect the community - while remaining a global leader in the fight for tax transparency - to coordinate its actions more closely with those of international actors, for example within the oecd.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am very grateful that we have reached the conclusions of this trialogue in such a timely fashion, because ukraine is counting on our support. you have to remember that, while conducting profound reforms, the government of ukraine needs to deal with the consequences of the illegal annexation of crimea and, at the same time, has to tackle the military conflict provoked by russia. moreover, the russian authorities have imposed further restrictions on the ukrainian economy, including the embargo on agri—food imports and the banning of transit of goods to central asia. this is the price the ukrainians have to have to pay for their euro—atlantic aspirations. at the same time, it was necessary for us to address the concerns of eu producers and farmers, as well as the issues which are still problematic in our relations with ukraine: corruption. we have done all that. by granting new concessions, we want to back the ongoing reforms, strengthen small and medium enterprises and provide the necessary boost for increasing trade flows. i hope this will prove to be both economically and politically advantageous for the people of ukraine. i would like to thank all my shadow rapporteurs and parliament’s administration for all their efforts in order to proceed swiftly with this file. i would like to stress that i am very committed to continuing my work as the standing rapporteur in the international trade committee for ukraine, and i am looking forward to working and helping ukraine even more. (applause)
madam president! we live in a world of progress and development. the use of new techniques and technologies on the one hand and the integration of the economies of not only the member states of the european union but the whole world on the other hand require the standardisation of standards. so normalization in this process is key. however, it should be conducted in close partnership and cooperation between industry, public authorities, standardisation bodies and others. i think that the essential role in today's world is to standardize in the digital transformation. the commission should therefore give priority to standards in the areas of 5g, cloud computing, the internet of things, data security and cybersecurity. that's why i think this dossier is important and necessary.
madam president! the reporting we are talking about is designed to benefit consumers, the environment and businesses. its purpose is to make sure that the appliances, machines, cars, appliances, electronics, computers, telephones, and so forth that we buy will last as long as possible, but that if they break down, they can be easily and cheaply repaired. so the idea is very important and very true. the records of the report, i believe, give that idea. they therefore refer to warranty issues and the right to make repairs using replacements, not just original parts. in the end, however, it must be remembered that the market, and not just paragraphs, must provide the right balance between quality and price.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: using war tragedies to promote prenatal infanticide is an act of complete cynicism, especially when we have introduced a ban on the death penalty for war rape, even rape that ends in murder. this approach documents the complete disease of our civilization: the proliferation of laws protecting evil and the systematic dismantling of the protection of the good for which every civilized state is responsible. only a return to the ethics of the decalogue and the gospel, only listening to the deep inner voice of our civilization can save it. we must repeat this more often, the more our civilization is threatened in its very existence.
madam president! i have been working on security and defence issues for many years and it is with some satisfaction that i have noted the european parliament's interest in the situation of security companies. this is a market that generates about 35 billion a year and employs 1.5 million people. i remind you that over 40,000 entities protect not only water treatment plants, but also power plants, for example. it is very important that this document does not over-regulate the way these companies operate, because they operate in different economic conditions. it is important that there is an exchange of information on criminal activities of certain members of the security groups and that a list of companies is established that can be recommended for tasks requiring exceptional quality. i want to emphasize that the work of the initiator of this project has gone very well. that is why i was able to support the report.
madam president! the world is changing, and with it, the economy and the job market. until now, the main form of employment, the standard form, has been a permanent contract and a full-time contract. however, over the last 15 years we have seen an increase in the number of non-standard employment contracts. these may include, among others, part-time employment contracts, temporary employment contracts, homework contracts or telework, zero-hour contracts or civil law contracts. in this situation, it is the responsibility of the union, but also of the member states, to ensure that workers irrespective of the legal basis of their employment are guaranteed a minimum: a minimum of social, health, safety and health at work, etc. however, it is important to ensure that the employment relationship is as flexible as possible and free from excessive bureaucracy, otherwise it will not serve either the workers, the employer or the labour market.
madam president! the report we are debating is clearly focused on the negative trends in the labour market, particularly the abuse of flexible forms of employment. but we can't stigmatize them. very often, the only job opportunities are given to young people with no experience, women with children or people who value independence. it seems to me that the threshold condition, which if exceeded leads to many irregularities and pathologies, is to force workers to accept a flexible working basis when we only want to increase productivity and competitiveness at the expense of workers' rights. so while we should not fight flexible forms of employment, effective mechanisms must be developed to prevent their abuse at the expense of workers' rights. the solution is to ensure that all types of work provide adequate social protection, for example in line with the decent work programme of the international labour organisation. unfortunately, the report also refers to the revision of the directive on the posting of workers. this is a politically sensitive subject that we are working on, and it should be in this report. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the preparation of the commission work programme for 2018 (2017/2699 ((rsp)).
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, today’s debate launches our joint reflection on the priorities for the coming year. over the past few days, we have made real progress towards better coordinating our efforts between parliament, member states and the commission. we need to maintain this positive dynamic. only together can we achieve tangible results in the key areas where our citizens and businesses expect the union to provide an effective part of the solution. the structured dialogue between parliament and the commission is working well, and together we have designed a focused and prioritised agenda. we have read the summary report from the conference of committee chairs and i look forward to hearing your further input in our discussions today. halfway through its term of office, this commission is effectively delivering on the 10 political priorities established at the outset, and on the basis of which this house approved our appointment. we have kept the focus on the big things, where effective european action can make a concrete difference in addressing the challenges facing europe. some of these challenges were predictable. our digital agenda, for example, addresses the need to adapt to – and lead – the fourth industrial revolution that is underway. others, such as the migration crisis, have evolved at a rate, and on a scale, that requires us all to be innovative and quick on our feet in finding ways to manage the situation effectively. today we see what is happening in italy, and we have just been discussing in the college of commissioners today the series of immediate measures that can be taken by the eu member states, the commission, the eu agencies and italy itself to accelerate our response to the pressing and dire situation in the central mediterranean. the implementation of the 2017 work programme is well under way. we have many important proposals on the table and we will redouble our engagement with you and the council in the coming months to ensure real progress on measures such as the european pillar of social rights, where i look forward to the interinstitutional proclamation to be signed by parliament, the council and the commission before the end of this year. the string of brutal terrorist attacks on european cities again shows that we must deliver on the european security agenda by reaching timely agreement on tackling money laundering and on the european travel information and authorisation system. with rising security threats and instability in our neighbourhood, we need to make good progress on the european defence fund, and i see a lot of political momentum on this subject. in the autumn we will present further measures, including on tackling tax fraud and tax evasion and on eu company law. we will deliver on our circular economy strategy with important proposals on plastics. commission president juncker will deliver a state of the union speech here in this house on 13 september. as usual, our letter of intent will be sent to you in parallel. on that basis, i look forward to further exchanges between us all. i hope that we will also have productive discussions with the council in the latter part of this year so that we can adopt our work programme for 2018 on 24 october 2017. our work next year will remain focused on delivering on the remaining actions provided for under our 10 priorities and the strategies for implementing them. we will pay particular attention, in terms of implementation, to the adoption of pending proposals. we will maintain a focus on regulatory fitness. the opinions of the refit platform will feed into the discussions on the commission work programme so that we continue to deliver on our shared policy ambitions without any unnecessary complexity. we want rules that will actually be implemented and thus bring real results on the ground, with a special focus on small and medium—sized enterprises. indeed, above all, 2018 will be a key year for delivery. when this house rises for elections in 2019, citizens will judge for themselves whether europe has done what they expected. the commission will continue to be your loyal partner in helping to find compromises and reaching agreement on key legislative measures. the joint declaration on the eu’s legislative priorities, signed by the presidents of our three institutions in december 2016, has proved very valuable. after six months, we have been able to complete work on terrorist offences and firearms and on boosting the capital markets union. the day after tomorrow – on thursday – you will vote on better access for blind and partially sighted people to copyright works, as well as on the european fund for sustainable development to address the poor living standards and lack of work opportunities which push people to migrate. but more effort is now needed on legislative proposals that have not really progressed so far, including on the european deposit insurance scheme and the common european asylum system. this joint declaration process is not a matter of fast-tracking or undermining the quality of scrutiny and decision-making by the co-legislators. that would be counterproductive as it could only lead to poor results that do not address the challenges we face. but our cooperation does help to ensure that, where problems or delays arise, everyone is focused on finding solutions. we have shown with the european border and coast guard and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) that, when we all work hard on a shared priority, we can achieve the right results at the right time. i hope that agreement on efsi 2.0 is close in sight. so i look forward to the three presidents’ agreeing later this year on a new joint declaration to shape our work for next year. all this programming and planning is not a bureaucratic process or a means in itself. our dialogue about priorities is deeply political because it is about the sort of europe we want to create. the commission has launched a broad debate on the future of europe with you and with national parliaments, with local and regional authorities, and with civil society at large. i count on your support in spurring an active, inclusive debate around where we want to be as the eu in the future, not just next year but also in the years to come.
mr. chairman, please! the preparation of the commission's 2018 work programme is the beginning of the construction of this plan, and this is how it was presented by your vice-president. our debate is, of course, under certain conditions. first, we were presented with a white paper with five options for the future of the union. and then there's the debate on the budget beyond 2021, also a five-way debate, and the actual start of negotiations on the uk's exit from the eu, which are ultimately due to end sometime in late 2018. this will of course largely determine our work in parliament. a mid-term budgetary review has also been launched and is ongoing, from which certain conclusions will emerge. we are also in the process of taking very important decisions on the functioning of the energy union, proposing solutions that concern a resource-efficient union, especially with regard to the circular economy, and we still have a real decision to make on the defence union and the challenges in this area, in particular in terms of combating terrorism and our external security. here too, we must take into account our policy towards our neighbours in europe and towards europe's neighbours. the implementation and finalisation of the single market and digital single market strategy, and above all the european data economy, is also needed. i am therefore particularly pleased to hear that the role of smes in the economy will be highlighted, because this is the guarantee of stable, good jobs in europe.
i'm not going to let you do this. from the perspective of the deve committee, we as the epl group would like to point out the need to highlight in the new commission work programme the issue of addressing the root causes of migration by strengthening development policy and multi-level cooperation with africa. the european consensus on development and the monitoring of institutional and policy change are essential tools for the effective implementation of the 2030 agenda and the un global development goals. cooperation with the private sector is an essential element in achieving these objectives, and the mobilisation of private funds is essential in addressing the root causes of irregular migration. however, a specific reporting mechanism and appropriate parliamentary oversight are necessary to monitor the implementation of instruments such as the trust fund for africa and the new european fund for sustainable development and to regularly assess their effectiveness. promoting democracy, good governance and respect for human rights is key to building security in partner countries. therefore, the updated criteria for official development assistance in this field should be taken into account in peace and stability activities. the new framework for cooperation with the acp countries, which is to be negotiated in 2018, should focus on political dialogue, development cooperation and trade. it is also necessary to strengthen regionalisation and to adapt the cooperation model to the area.
madam president! the year 2018 will be of great importance for the work on the new eu budget after 2020. it's certainly going to be one of the dominant themes. the commission has announced that it will present the assumptions of the new budgetary perspective in the middle of next year. we all know by now that the new budget will be smaller than the current one, mainly because of brexit. so the negotiations will not be easy. on the one hand, the budget must take account of emerging challenges, for example in the area of security, but on the other hand it should remain primarily an investment budget. cohesion policy is the main investment policy of the union, with proven results and significant added value, and its contribution to the new budget after 2020 should therefore remain at the same level as at present. it is also important that work starts on time and that the new budget and, consequently, the specific policies are adopted without delay.
as chairman of the committee, i have two questions. firstly, when does the commission intend to present a legislative proposal on unfair trading practices? commissioner hogan announced that he would carry out an impact assessment on this issue. in the light of the above, we concluded that no legislative proposal will be adopted in 2017. if so, when in 2018 could such a request be finally accepted? what would be the timeframe of the legislative procedure? the new cap reform should enter into force on 1 january 2021. however, many recent developments indicate that the adoption of legislative proposals on cap reform (direct payments, common market organisation, rural development, horizontal rules) may be significantly delayed, especially because of the usual delays in the submission of proposals for the new multiannual financial framework. the delayed legislative proposals for the cap are likely to be tabled in 2018, making it more difficult to foresee the completion of the legislative procedure before the end of the parliament's term in 2019.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, yes at some point in this debate i had the impression this was turning into commissioners’ question time rather than the debate on preparing the commission work programme. but i have to say that my role in this debate is to listen very carefully to you and take note, and that what you have said is then duly reflected in the preparation of our work programme when we come back. i hope for some understanding of the fact that i am not going to go into individual questions which, by the way, sometimes have nothing to do with the commission work programme. what i see in the contributions of your members, madam president, is a great ambition to tackle the huge problems europe is facing. migration: very clearly, we are tackling today what is an unacceptable situation in italy, and european solidarity is warranted. and urgently warranted, because the italian people have shown an incredible level of humanitarian outreach to people in need, but they cannot be left alone in solving this problem. and that is when europe needs to act. the same applies to the situation on the greek islands. it is a lot better than a year or a year and a half ago, but still far from being solved, and we need european approaches to solve those problems. many members mentioned the issue of inequalities in europe. at every level, the crises we have faced over the past couple of years have increased inequalities. and, if i understood this house correctly, fighting these inequalities is something members see, broadly across this chamber, as one of the priorities for next year. we are talking not just about inequalities within the member states and between social groups and because so many people were left behind in the crisis, but also about inequalities between member states. the whole idea of european integration and the structural funds and all the influence we have is to create convergence between member states. ms morvai, you draw attention to big wage differences between member states which have a disruptive effect. if you can create economic convergence, wage divergences will decrease. and we need to use the opportunity in the coming years to use the instruments we have already put in place: the digital single market; the energy union – extremely important – perfecting the internal market – still a lot to do – creating a fairer tax system, helping member states to do that and also making sure that multinationals pay taxes – these are all steps that we need to take in the next couple of years. i fully understand the depth of the challenge, but where i would like to caution you a bit is not to be too gloomy about where we are. unemployment is decreasing, and sometimes even quite rapidly. there are more jobs in europe than ever before. youth unemployment remains too high, but there are also elements of hope. economic growth is increasing in every single member state. a year ago, a prominent politician in the country i know best said there would be a patriotic spring in europe this year. he said this because he thought there would be a wave of ultra-nationalism breaking up our european cooperation and the european union. what have we seen? indeed, a patriotic spring! a european patriotic spring, because after the election in the united states the rest of the world is looking to europe to make sure the paris agreement will stand, and to take the lead in making sure the paris agreement will stand. after the election in the united states, other parts of the world are looking to europe to create free and, above all, fair trade agreements so that we maintain the values and economic growth that we stand for. europeans have come together. european leaders have met in bratislava and in rome to say that they want to chart the future of europe together and not be left alone or think that they can find solutions individually. this is the background against which we will formulate next year’s programme. yes, the challenges are daunting. yes, we still have a lot of problems, but things are looking better than a year ago, better than two years ago. we have things to build on, we have opportunities to create a dynamic at the european level that will make europe the global leader in many of the main issues the world is facing today and tomorrow. i hope we can reflect this in the commission’s work programme for next year.
in writing. i would like to draw your attention to two important issues that should be addressed in the commission's 2018 work programme. first, the need to strengthen the co-financing of the erasmus+ programme. we need at least a doubling of the budget for this programme to ensure that it operates effectively and to maintain its attractiveness. in this context, i fully support the proposal of some member states to increase funding for the programme by up to ten times in order to facilitate the participation of socially and economically disadvantaged students, staff and students with special needs and people from remote regions. the second issue is civil rights. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education on strengthening citizens' rights, i call on the commission to continue its work to promote awareness of eu citizens' rights and to ensure that these rights are uniformly respected throughout the eu. i also stress the importance of high-quality inclusive education to guarantee equal rights for citizens, encourage them to be active citizens and to participate in the democratic life of the eu.
madam president, within the common security and defence policy (csdp) the majority of competences still belong to the council, and therefore i would like to mention and emphasise the importance of the common perception of threats while discussing csdp, and this common perception is still lacking within the eu. do we honestly foresee the deployment of real csdp missions in our eastern neighbourhood, thus challenging the ambitions of the russian federation in this area? do we assess, for example, the energy security situation that deteriorates the position of these countries? there are many aspects of security, and we have to take these into account as well.
madam president! we're starting to talk about the union military at a dangerous time. fascism is rising in europe, for example, a few days ago the bundestag passed a law threatening to fine 50 million euros for posting false content online - even adolf hitler did not apply such high fines. i remind you that a few days ago i was unable to find out from commissioner marya gabriel who will determine what content is false, and in the times of the prl i spent several years in prison for spreading false information that could cause significant damage to the interests of the prl. the armed forces of the union shall have no military significance. a perfect example of their value was srebrenica. france alone has 300 nuclear warheads, compared to 7,000 in russia and the same number in the united states. it is clear to me that these forces are only created to provide so-called fraternal aid to a country that would rebel against the occupation of the european union. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president! if freedom is valued, there is only one answer to the european union's aspirations to take control of our nations' defence: no more power for those who wield it irresponsibly. because it's really about power - geoffrey van orden said it very well - it's about political integration, which is taking over the power of states, and it's not about defense, because president mogherini has said very frankly that our goal is not militarization. the attitude of the european union leadership towards our security was seen in the immigration crisis, and the test of solidarity in defense is simply to respect the security of other european countries and respond to their position. so, we only need to look at the construction of nord stream 2 to see what the fiction of sanctions against russia, which were supposed to protect us, looks like, and to see the whole absurdity of the concept of common european defence, which is to take control of the security of our countries.
madam president! one of the many problems with the commission's proposals is the reversal of the hierarchy of risks. the greatest threat to the security of europe today is russia and its attempts to destabilize key eu countries. however, the commission's plans seem to suggest that it wants to compete with the united states in the field of the arms industry. and this is the second main objective, next to the one that geoffrey van orden spoke about, this political objective of strengthening european integration. the commission wants to focus on funding research into new weapons systems that could be important for europe's security in a few years' time, in the event of a conflict of strategic importance. however, in my view, the commission should focus on delivering on all that it committed to in the joint declaration of the union and nato signed in warsaw, for example on the joint exercises on hybrid threats that were planned with nato for the current year. it should also focus on implementing the european council decision of june this year, for example by increasing the co-financing of the final deployment of the battle groups.
madam president! from time to time, with varying degrees of intensity, ideas of a european army have been floated. it must be made clear that building a separate eu army alongside nato would be detrimental to the north atlantic treaty. as jens stoltenberg, the head of nato, recently reminded the european parliament, 90% of the citizens of the union are now citizens of nato member states, so there is no need to build a separate army. the most likely outcome of this initiative will be the uk's exit from the european union, which - as recently acknowledged by european commission president jean-claude juncker - has a real army, while others have ambitions. but these ambitions must not lead to the breakup of nato. the north atlantic treaty must be strengthened. as us president donald trump recently reminded us, the real guarantee of the security of the european union countries is to fulfil their obligations to nato, that is, to allocate 2% of the gdp of the member states to defence. the consolidation of national defence systems within nato should also be considered.
in writing. the directive on the protection of the eu's financial interests will allow for a common definition of offences affecting the union's financial interests to be introduced into eu law. the directive also relates to the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. the tasks of the commission will include conducting investigations, bringing charges and bringing to justice those responsible for financial crimes. this will help to overcome the deadlock between olaf and member states, which do not always follow its recommendations. the eppo is a body that is responsible for the protection of the financial interests of the union. the polish government's rejection of the project is explained by the threat to the independence of the polish prosecutor's office. this is why it is so important to clarify that the purpose of the european public prosecutor's office is to protect european taxpayers' money spent by member states.
in writing. the reflection paper on european defence published by the european commission is not only timed to coincide with a series of similar documents on the future of the eu. it also coincides with a series of concrete actions by the european commission, under mandate from the member states, to make the common security and defence policy no longer a mere name. all the scenarios proposed assume some progress in defence cooperation. as the authors themselves point out, the main difference between the three visions of the future is the depth of cooperation, not its individual elements. the eu is also committed to the development of a common defence policy and to the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy. it is also worth noting the need for greater synchronization of arms purchases and planning to avoid wasting the enormous resources that are spent on military equipment and capabilities. i would also like to see more use made in the future of existing infrastructure, which is primarily civil but which can be of great help in increasing our resilience and security. the copernicus and galileo satellite systems are already being built and deployed. this suggestion has been made in the scenarios presented and deserves full support.
in writing. the european union is rightly increasingly concerned with its defence and security. i want to draw attention to a growing problem in this context. the sum of the defence budgets of all the eu member states is about 50% of the us defence budget. in europe, we spend 1.3% of the eu's gdp on defence, while in the us, we spend about 4%. the problem is not only that defence budgets are too low, but also that they are not used effectively. with 50% of the us budget, europe has only 15% of the us military's combat capability. the situation is particularly dire for research into new military technologies and the implementation of new technologies. i therefore think it is appropriate to create a special defence fund in the union budget, which would allocate eur 500 million per year to research and eur 500 million to the implementation of new technologies. this should improve european military capabilities in the field of reconnaissance, military drone production, aerial refuelling capabilities and other new generation weapons.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in taking part in this debate, i want to stress very strongly that the budgetary cuts suggested by the commission in relation to brexit and the consequent shortfall of some eur 70-100 billion in the eu budget after 2020 are unacceptable to most countries in central and eastern europe. these cuts would affect the two most important eu policies: cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, which are the most important instruments for balancing the level of development between the old and new member states. moreover, such spending cuts from the union budget are a breach of the principle that the more developed countries of the union pay a certain amount of money into the budget in exchange for unlimited access - in this case to 150 million consumers in central and eastern european countries - and that, despite making enormous profits from this, they will now try to reduce the burden of this. the proposals to cut the cap, which has already been cut by 11% in the current financial perspective, by €48 billion, while imposing additional tasks on eu agriculture in the fields of environmental, climate, landscape and biodiversity protection, seem to be an attempt to sabotage their implementation.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. it's only been a few days since the document was published, opening the debate on the future of finance. this shows how seriously the european parliament takes this debate, as it responds immediately to the european commission's proposal. this proposal opens the door to a serious debate on the financing of the european union. but it should be noted that this document is not written for the european parliament. this document is also written to open a debate among the governments of the member states. this debate needs to run in parallel. we will also be very anxious to see in parliament what the governments of the member states will say about this proposal. the proposal, which today, according to the white paper, is divided into several scenarios, raises the fundamental question: can we do more with less money? is that even feasible? i think the first reaction of the european parliament after having read this document in detail is that it cannot be done. you can't do more with less money. the european parliament is therefore naturally taking action on the debate. we're going to have a very detailed discussion about what the european union has to offer, what we have to offer to governments, in order to prove that it's not possible to do it the way it's been proposed and that there has to be an absolute change in the approach to funding the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. designing and agreeing on multiannual financial frameworks is never business as usual. the previous 2007-2013 perspective had to take into account all the financial effects of the historic enlargement of the european union ten countries, then bulgaria, romania, croatia all net beneficiaries. the current financial perspective was created in the shadow of the great economic crisis and under the enormous pressure that prime minister cameron was putting, and he was putting pressure on the budget to be cut in order to avoid brexit, in order to convince the british people that they could save in europe. and paradoxically now this project that will be born has brexit as the biggest unknown, because the budget is a vision of europe in numbers. the budget is about numbers and it's hard to put that budget together with little idea of what the financial agreement with the uk will look like. so it seems reasonable to delay the commission's submission until next year. we have five scenarios so far, of which the fifth, which is probably the closest to parliament's imagination, is written in such a way that it is more likely to be rejected. because it says "significant growth". who's up for a big raise today? if it had been written 'rational growth' or 'reasonable growth', it might have been more palatable in the current climate of the european union. on the bright side, i see a willingness to move the revenue side of the budget. there's a chance here with brexit.
mr. chairman, please! in reflection, you cannot ignore the facts, the existing reality. the budget for agriculture has been cut by 11.5% in the current financial perspective, or by eur 48 billion. we have a very difficult situation in agriculture. the average income of farmers has already fallen below 50% compared to other occupational groups. the number of young farmers is declining dramatically, followed by rapid rural ageing and depopulation. in many areas, life is actually dying. the liberalization of external trade has too often made our farmers less competitive. countries that joined the union after 2004 still need significant support to modernise their agriculture. new challenges, like security and defense? let us remember that one of the dimensions of security is food security. new jobs? we can create them in rural areas, for example, with renewable energy. farmers produce many public goods that are important for people, the environment or the climate, that need to be valued and paid for. we must explain to the european taxpayer what he receives from farmers through the common agricultural policy.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! the opinion of the femm committee, whose rapporteur is barbara matera, recalls that equality between women and men is one of the key values of the european union. in this opinion, we call for the 2018 eu budget, which has as its main objective sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and the creation of new jobs, especially for young people, to include measures to strengthen women's entrepreneurship, especially in the fastest growing sectors of the european union's economy, such as the ict sector. these are programmes such as cosme, horizon 2020, the european social fund. we also need to increase the representation of women in programmes such as the youth employment initiative, where internships and training are offered, especially again in the ict sector, in the technical sectors where women are under-represented, because the future of europe cannot be built without the participation of women and we cannot afford to waste and not use their talents and their competences. we also support increased funding for the european institute for gender equality to build an observatory on violence and monitor policies on it across the european union.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 july 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the election of saudi arabia as a member of the un commission on the status of women (2017/2721 ((rsp)).
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question: we are always faced with a dilemma in such situations, which will bring this type of choice, and does the honourable member not also have the impression that this choice, alongside its so-called negatives, may also have a small positive aspect, that is, saudi arabia will be confronted with these standards, which it will also have to comply with, and perhaps this will, even to a small extent, point the country towards the paths we would like it to follow. so if this state is dragged into this process, it may - but it may not - be forced to take action in favour of women's rights.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of cuba, of the other part (12502/2016 - c8-0517/2016 - 2016/0298 ((nle)) (rapporteur: elena valenciano) (a8-0232/2017) and report drawn up by elena valenciano on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs containing the draft non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of cuba, of the other part (2017/2036 ((a238/2017).
madam president, after quite an unexpected change in the cuba-us relations, i was hoping that there is a chance for a better future for the cuban people. unfortunately, from the information we have received, the oppressions have got even worse. this seems to be also confirmed by the number of arbitrary detentions in the recent months and a letter from the damas de blanco to the president trump administration. in order to be able to proceed with this agreement, in my opinion, the european parliament, which stands for the protection of human rights and is the parliament which condemns exercising any sort of pressure of governments on their people, i think we should demand respect for human rights, especially considering the fact that sakharov prize winners still have the problems with leaving cuba and returning safely to their homeland. i believe the economic implications cannot be treated as more important than the respect for human life and wellbeing of the citizens.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the example of cuba shows that the most important thing for a country is not to respect human rights, to be a democratic country, but the most important thing is to be a stable country. if that state survives, if its government survives, eventually those relations with it are established. and in this case, there's a kind of realism. i would like to make one simple request, because this agreement will probably be concluded, that its content, as well as its subsequent implementation, should include at least the most general reference to the need to respect human rights. on many occasions, when we visited, for example as the droi committee in different countries, even the most general references allowed us to ask about these basic human rights issues and gave an institutional, legal title, but to make the implementation of the agreement dependent on the state of respect for human rights.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking silvia costa and elmar brok for their excellent work. i often say that the european union is a superpower. there is no doubt that in the field of culture we are a superpower: it is the very heart of our soft power, and we have finally decided to use this power that we have and that is unique in the world. the report contains elements of great importance for our work, which we have carried out in a very determined and united way over the past year: parliament, the council - i was honoured to be the first high representative to participate in a council on culture - the commission, the eeas and our delegations are already working on a great many initiatives to support, among other things, the possibility for individual member states to use cultural diplomacy for their own agendas. what i see is an effort of interinstitutional coordination and synergy in this area which gives me hope. culture is first of all a crucial resource for our diplomacy, opening new channels and facilitating mutual understanding, and it can help bring peace and reconciliation within divided communities around the world. beyond that, international cultural relations are also a resource for our economies in europe and beyond. asmar was saying, this is something we have learned from our european history. european cultural excellence comes from europe's openness and diversity. as we have learned as europeans, cultural exchanges make us stronger, and never weaker. it is in this spirit that the joint communication was conceived, with the focus on three pillars. the first is intercultural dialogue: the promotion of culture and intercultural dialogue for peaceful relations among countries and communities. a very good example of this is the recent agreement with tunisia, which will become the first country from the southern shore of the mediterranean to join the creative europe programme. more than ever, there is a need to create a space i would say a common ground and a common language to engage in cultural exchanges inside and outside our borders. sometimes we struggle to find the right language to talk to each other or to find ways to ensure that everyone's voice is heard. think of young people. at times people who have difficulty in making their voice heard or finding a channel of active participation in societies in their communities, find that voice through culture, be it music or even street art, because our understanding of culture goes beyond classical music. this is also the strength of european culture. culture can be a very powerful channel for engagement, participation and active democracy. second, culture is a resource for growth and sustainable development, as acknowledged in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. this is true both inside the european union, where culture and creative industries account for over 7 million jobs, and in other regions and countries of the world. we are working with developing countries to support cultural industries, establish creative hubs, and develop professional training and competence in new technologies. i'll give you one example. we have recently started to support a project called ethical fashion in the framework of the trust fund for africa. we provide craftswomen and tailors from west africa with vocational training and with the opportunity to work with fashion companies from all over the world. some of these people are migrants who were given the opportunity to go back to their communities and, with new skills and a new job, restart a different life. thousands of jobs have already been created through just this project alone. a third strand of our work and i conclude aims at reinforcing cooperation on cultural heritage. let me say in this regard that the first ever g7 ministers meeting on culture in florence was a very big step forward for the international community, under the italian presidency of the g7 this year, to promote support for cultural heritage. i would like in particular to express my support for the work done by some member states, notably italy and germany, to protect cultural heritage from human and natural disaster. this month i will table a paper in council with ideas to take this work forward at european union level. in 2018, the european union and member states will celebrate the european year of cultural heritage. europe has built an unrivalled expertise in the protection and restoration of cultural heritage. it is our duty and our responsibility, but also in our interest to share this with the world. when we contribute to the restoration of cultural sites in kosovo or the rebuilding of the sarajevo city hall, we are also contributing to stability, reconciliation, security and peace in the balkans. this is in the heart of europe. our work in timbuktu to restore the mausoleum and the library is also a way to re-launch the local economy and tourism and to prevent terrorism. we will soon sign a eur 1 million programme with unesco to support the recovery and reconstruction of syria's cultural heritage. this is also a very important element of our fight against the financing of terrorist activities and organisations. for all these different strands of work to succeed, we need to continue our work together with all european actors and all our partners in the cultural environment sharing the same sense of direction. parliament has been one of the strongest advocates of a european union policy for international cultural relations. the preparatory action launched by the european parliament in 2014 laid the groundwork for the drafting of our own joint communication, so it is now time for us to work on our first strategy for international cultural relations. this is perfectly in line as elmar was saying with our global strategy for foreign and security policy that contains a strong reference to culture. i will push for a specific focus on cultural diplomacy in the next phase of the global strategies implementation. so i count on continuing our joint work, together with the european parliament, to finally fulfil our huge potential as a cultural superpower.
on behalf of the ppe group. culture is a community policy. on the one hand, it's good, on the other hand, it's bad. it is not good, because culture does indeed have a certain potential which makes europe stronger, but it is good that it is not covered by community policy, because it is not covered by excessive bureaucracy, and can develop in a more free, diverse and individual way. what i want to draw your attention to is, first of all, timing. it should be remembered that the european cultural agenda was formally launched in 2007. ten years later, we are in exactly the same situation, with today's report, but without the tools that we have developed. if the next stage is after the next ten years, then it can be said that we will have wasted this potential or at least not used it. secondly, it is clear that there is a difference between promoting culture for its own sake, for the sake of artists, institutions, museums, people, and using culture as a tool to improve the image, to communicate better. we cannot allow a kind of schizophrenia to continue: we say in this room that culture has great potential, but at the same time the horizon 2020 programme has been curtailed, the erasmus+ programme and creative europe are in trouble, and funding is being cut and transferred to the european solidarity corps. we have to be consistent, very professional in this regard, and remember that if we want to benefit from culture, we cannot do it hastily.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to say a few words about just one, but i think it is a very characteristic case, namely this online platform for cultural diplomacy, which the authors of the report welcome so much. the objective of this platform is to carry out activities that enhance the cultural engagement of the european union with third countries and their citizens. as mr brok has said, the aim of european cultural diplomacy should be to show the complexity and diversity of europe's cultural heritage in all its diversity, including its national diversity. so the question is: why was a consortium chosen for the tender platform, which is de facto made up of cultural institutions from only one part of europe? could the project not have taken into account the need for geographical diversification, namely to showcase europe's cultural diversity? unfortunately, this is similar to the story of the house of european history, which is also part of the cultural diplomacy of the european union, where history is presented through the lens of the experiences of only some northern european countries. i think we should take what congressman brok is saying seriously, don't you? the history of europe and the history of culture and heritage is more complex and this diversity should also be reflected in the implementation of eu projects and in the cultural diplomacy of the european union. europe is not just germany, it's not just france, it's not just britain, and so it's not just the countries of northern europe.
in writing. millions of euros are lost every year to fraudulent applications for eu funding. that is why i am in favour of adopting this directive, which deals with offences relating to fraud affecting the eu's interests in public procurement, money laundering, corruption, vat fraud and the deliberate misappropriation of funds. as these are measures to promote the development of countries and regions, we cannot allow money intended for the common good to go into the pockets of criminals. as rapporteur for the legal affairs committee, i was tasked with developing a definition of an official which, under the directive, includes not only eu officials and staff of member state institutions, but also private individuals entrusted with public functions relating to the use of eu funds. the same definition should also apply to activities in non-eu countries, as a significant part of the funds from the union budget are distributed outside its borders. the directive will also be the basis for the future european public prosecutor's office, which i hope all member states will eventually join.
mr. chairman, please! today, on his way to the g-20, the president of the united states lands in poland, expecting the promised warm welcome, somewhat contrived. but if he does today confirm the guarantees of nato's article 5, it will be a tremendous asset to all the countries that are neighbors of putin's russia and have experienced the fraternal help of the red army in the past. but none of these countries should be part of the process of weakening the european union. each of these countries should, for its own security, create elements of european defence just in case. there are many reasons why the g20 summit is a difficult task for the hosts, not just because of the demonstrations that actually make headlines in the newspapers and media. today it is hard to find what we call the euro-atlantic community of values, which was the foundation of the post-war peace order and the free world of man. hence, i think, the very broad agenda of this meeting, but the somewhat understated expectations as to the effects of the g-20 in hamburg. so we must be able to confirm the minimum that unites, and what unites is really the common fight against terrorism, against the sources of terrorism, the containment of the wave of migration, because this is where the fragile sense of security in europe and not only in europe is decided. but there's growing evidence that we can do this.
mr president, in times of challenge, security should define the credibility of partners, including trade partners. i therefore welcome the agreement with japan. the dreams before g20 were already overshadowed by an exclusive deal between russia and china, as well as rather unfriendly military exercises on the baltic sea. our response to this – the western response to this – should be a closer transatlantic alliance, with both the us and canada.
madam president! i think it's a very valuable word that tunne kelam said about the estonian presidency, that it's a return to the source. we'd like to think that's true. thank you for those words, and at the same time for your conviction that the estonian presidency - what the prime minister said - is carpe diem, that is, to seize the moment in which your country is chairing here and now. you propose as a priority an open and innovative economy, but at the same time a sustainable one, which also includes our societies, and a europe of the future, which speaks of digital challenges and in particular of building the freedom of data flow. and what's important for everybody is that europe is safe, that all our countries are safe. this is extremely important. however, i would like to ask the prime minister that the key - regardless of priorities - is to respect the treaty principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, to ensure legal certainty and, lastly, to ensure that the eastern partnership is implemented.
in writing. on 1 july 2017, estonia officially assumed its first rotating presidency of the council of the european union since its accession to the eu. the priorities of the estonian presidency, as set out in the plenary session, include promoting an open and innovative european economy, the sustainable development of the union and strengthening security. estonia, which has a wealth of experience in cybersecurity and advanced it solutions, intends to focus on digital issues during its presidency and help accelerate the implementation of the european digital single market. this is one of the strengths of this baltic country: since its independence in 1991, estonians have been actively promoting digitisation, including in administration, offices, education and public life. estonia is among the first countries in the world to introduce the possibility of voting in elections via the internet. the estonian presidency will therefore be responsible for negotiating a number of key technology projects, including the development of e-commerce and e-services for the benefit of consumers, producers and businesses, copyright reform, new rules on telecommunications and the free flow of data. i fully support these ambitious plans and believe that if they are realised, they will put europe on the path to innovation and modernisation, revive the european economy and bring many positive social benefits to the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, communism is not just a political dictatorship, it is a totalitarian tyranny that has discriminated against entire social groups that it considered to be enemies, and it still does so in cuba, for example. cuba may change in the near future, but it is an open question whether this will be a real decommunization or a post-communist transformation, i.e. the seizure of state property by those who rule today, leaving those who are persecuted today dependent. all of the things we know from central europe, and especially eastern europe. unfortunately, there is no indication that the european union is willing to stand up for real liberation, for real help to those who have been persecuted. in this resolution we have adopted today, we have, of course, as always, lgbti people, we have sex education centres, but unfortunately, to the shame of this house, an amendment was rejected in defence of religious freedom, in defence of persecuted christians, as you can see, this is not a group that deserves special attention from the european parliament.
madam president! i voted for this resolution, of course, but i must say that the worrying phenomenon at the dawn of the 21st century is that the incidence of infectious diseases is increasing in europe, both the old type, such as tuberculosis, and the new type, such as hiv, aids and hepatitis c. preventive measures need to be strengthened. it's a shame that modern europe, with its very good medical technology, can't contain these infections. of course, there's a different strategy for viral diseases -- it's a lot of education, a lot of prevention, a lot of awareness. there are other ways of treating things like tuberculosis. in one such brief summary, we should strive to strengthen research on modern drugs most diseases and the development of tuberculosis is unfortunately drug resistance. and so, for hiv and hepatitis c, i propose that the cost of modern drugs be similar across europe.
madam president! i was a reporter for the ecr. i voted with the report, especially as it has been the subject of a very interesting debate which has revealed many problems, including the abuse by pharmaceutical companies of the price of new medicines, especially those used for viral hepatitis, but also for other diseases. and i wanted to draw attention again to the problem of the more than 40 million people living with hiv who, in addition to health care, lifelong treatment against retroviruses, improved diagnosis, need to be provided with psychological and psychiatric support, because, as i emphasized, the most important role in controlling the epidemic, in preventing the transmission of hiv to others, is played by people living with hiv, which raises the need for their education and the need to inform their partners. the sevenfold increase in infections among msm also requires the drawing of conclusions on prevention, with the need to inform and protect not only against stigma but also to inform patients about liability, including legal liability.
since the beginning of my term of office i have been dealing with budgetary and financial matters in the area of my competence: culture, education, sport and tourism, and for that reason i have no difficulty accepting the mandate for the trilateral talks, as well as this stage of the budgetary work. what i want to draw attention to, however, is the fact that there is a certain parallel debate on different positions with an effect, i must say, far from what was expected. on the one hand, the funding for the european solidarity corps is being withdrawn from culture, with the promise of compensation, which at this stage is not recorded anywhere. i pay attention to this detail, this detail, because there are many, many of them. both the pace and the technical details of the 2018 budget design raise my doubts because of the far-reaching inconsistency. but i did support the project.
madam president! in thanking elmar brok and silvia costa for their work, i would like to point out that we have two shortcomings with this document. first, it comes 10 years after the first formal european cultural agenda was set up, which is a very long time ago. this doesn't build a good prospect for the next tool where culture is taken seriously. secondly, i would also like to say that we are writing in this document that the 'creative europe' programmes, the youth scholarship programmes, the 'europe for citizens' programme, 'horizon 2020' are important, while 'horizon 2020' is losing money on investment programmes and the cultural programmes are being taken away for new projects without compensation. i'm drawing attention to this because we have a certain schizophrenia in this matter, or at least inconsistency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the treaty on european union states that one of the sources of inspiration for cooperation between our countries is europe's religious heritage. but if you look at the eu's strategy for international cultural relations, you don't see any confirmation of this statement. this document is a manifesto for multiculturalism, where the 'diversity of cultural identity' is supposed to replace our tradition, our spiritual values, our history. the eu's cultural strategy is another document of the structural crisis of the european union, just as our opposition is another testimony that the christian civilization of europe is still alive.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 6 july 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by mr eduard kukana, mr doru-claudian frunzulica and mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) and establishing an efsd guarantee and an efsd guarantee fund (com (((2016) 0586 - c8-0377/2016 - 2016/0281 (((cod)) (a8-0170/2017).
minister maasikas, please can you respect our meps?
in writing. we have been saying for some time in this chamber that it is important to tackle migration by working to improve the situation in the countries of origin of migrants. i believe that the establishment of the european fund for sustainable development is a very concrete way of putting those words into practice. i believe that stimulating investment in africa and neighbouring countries can make a real contribution to job creation and economic growth, and thus reduce the number of economic migrants coming to europe. however, we must remember that the sustainable development fund is one of the three pillars of the european external investment plan and it is crucial to put equal emphasis on the other two pillars, in particular on actions to improve the investment climate and the overall political environment and to fight corruption.
in writing. the proposed european fund for sustainable development is expected to mobilise €44 billion of investment in africa, as well as in the southern and eastern neighbourhoods. the money would come from regional investment platforms and the investments would be carried out in cooperation with financial institutions such as the eib, ebrd, as well as international, regional and national development banks. this is a hugely important undertaking, as the most effective way to deal with problems such as instability and migration is to support the economic development of the countries of origin of potential refugees and to provide them with decent living conditions. the negotiations on the proposal under discussion today have removed some doubts about the funding, and have established, among other things, that member states will not be required to make additional contributions to the budget. the regulation is scheduled to be adopted before the eu-africa and eastern partnership summits later this year and, if it comes into force, will be an important boost to economic growth, prosperity and stability in developing countries.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! sustainable development is equally concerned with each of the three pillars: environmental, economic and social. i am glad that the rapporteur agrees with me on this point. but at the same time, i must say that achieving these goals will not solve all the world's problems; we cannot interfere with such specific areas of life as the way people eat by eu legislation. i cannot agree with the provisions on the need to reduce the production of fattening animals, the reduction of meat consumption or the restrictions on rapeseed fuel. it is surprising that the project also interferes with reproductive and sexual rights and wants to influence the migration policy of the states. the european union should not be creating a recipe for life, the belief that regulating every sector can fix the world's problems is naive, and that is why we cannot support this report.
mr. chairman, please! we all agree that the 17 goals that have been set in the 2030 agenda are important goals. but among them, depending on the level of economic development and social problems, there are more important goals, because certainly access to water, access to food or possibly security or poverty reduction, in some countries these are more important goals than, for example, in the member states of the european union. to achieve these goals, we must work together, not only within the union but above all internationally, and share our experiences. what i would like to draw attention to as one of several objectives is also the action within the union itself, which will affect the whole economy. in particular, they can contribute to the creation of new jobs or new ways of exploiting raw materials, for example. it is a bioeconomy, an innovative approach to renewable resources, including food but also energy, a circular economy that is necessary for resource efficiency but also for resource reuse, an energy policy that will ensure security of supply and poverty on the one hand, but also contribute to climate objectives or, for example, clean air. we also know how important the issue of rural areas, of forest areas is. they provide a lot of public goods and there can't be a situation where we say agriculture is less important, it provides these goods that sometimes we don't even realize.
mr. chairman, please! today, donald trump, the president of the united states, is coming to poland. he's giving a public speech in warsaw tomorrow, and we'll see if he can get one sentence out of the way on the sustainable development goals. i only mention this because i am convinced that the united nations general assembly's 2030 sustainable development goals cannot be achieved without the cooperation and collaboration of countries that are leaders in economic development, countries like the united states, russia, china, india and so on. but for now, the us is questioning the paris agreement, for example. the european union therefore faces the difficult task of achieving our objectives.
in writing. today, european societies face many sustainable development challenges, ranging from widespread poverty and environmental degradation to the threats posed by climate change. the sustainable development goals and the related tasks are interdependent and indivisible. they are universal in that they affect all people. given the limitations of the planet, the scarcity of resources, growing inequalities and the importance of sustainable economic growth for protecting our welfare systems, a common european approach to achieving the sustainable development goals in all aspects of the union's work is of paramount importance. the objectives are an agenda for cooperation at all levels of public authorities and civil society and should be pursued in partnership with all actors. the essence of sustainable development is a dignified life, and it is therefore necessary to step up efforts to integrate the sdgs into cross-cutting projects and initiatives that will contribute to better and more coherent outcomes in terms of health, well-being of citizens, climate change and environmental protection. we must meet the challenges of today and prepare for the future by responding to the pace and complexity of global change and the needs of a growing world population. to preserve the european social model and social cohesion, it is necessary to invest in young people, to stimulate sustainable and inclusive growth, to tackle inequalities and to manage migration appropriately.
we cannot destroy symbols that help us understand what our union is all about, how this best plan in the history of our continent was born. we are here in alsace, in strasbourg, a place that is a great illustration of a terribly difficult and dramatic history, on the rhine, which they say was filled with blood after the second world war. here, language, cuisine, architecture, people's names, family histories - all testify to the fact that wars, occupations, hostilities have been overcome and transformed into the richness of several cultures in one place, the richness of openness, hospitality and friendship, and this is possible thanks to the european union. this is where it all began and this is where we should continue, in strasbourg on the rhine, where we should learn about the difficult past of our continent and from this magnificent, beautiful, modern building should flow plans for our common future. so one or two offices, but in strasbourg. (laughter) (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her commitment to this report. the group of european conservatives and reformists is a friend of the outermost regions. we wish them well and hope they'll overcome their difficulties. however, i believe that the regions mentioned in the report do not fully exploit the possibilities of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i would point out that the policies of countries with outlying regions within their borders make it possible to provide additional support. many areas on the european continent still face similar problems because of remoteness, climate, topography or the delays of being under communism. these areas need support similar to that of the outermost regions. i therefore believe that the outermost regions should seek sectoral, structural and investment aid primarily in the countries within whose borders they are located.
the next item is the joint debate on: report by max anderson on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on certain permitted uses of works and other subject-matter for the benefit of blind, visually impaired and print disabled persons and amending directive 2001/29/ec on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society (com ((2016) 0596 c80381/2016 2016/0278cod)) (a8-0097/2017) and the report by max anderson on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the exchange of copies of copyright-protected works and other subject-matter between persons with disabilities and third countries for the benefit of persons with disabilities, visually impaired or print disabled persons (com ((2016) 0278-0280/2016)) directive 2009/138/ec on the protection of individuals with disabilities in the european union (com (2016) 0278-02 (cod))
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! it is a great pleasure to be part of this debate, knowing that the decisions we are making today are so much awaited by millions of our citizens. we know very well how we like to read, what reading gives us: it develops imagination, empathy, it allows us to practice synthetic thinking, it delays the processes of dementia. these are all important things, but the most important things are getting to know the world, our heroes, our past, but also ourselves. so far, the supply of books and publications for the blind and partially sighted has been very limited, and i am very pleased that we have managed to negotiate and prepare the implementation of the marrakesh treaty, so that millions of our citizens, including almost two million of my fellow citizens in poland, will soon be able to benefit from a much wider supply. this exception to copyright is fully understandable and fully acceptable. i've got my own eye problems, and the lower case letters aren't really for me anymore. so i'm looking forward to this new offering that will allow you to use the format whether it's audio books or capital letters or braille to be able to read. mr president, i would like to make one appeal to the member states to implement these facilities in their countries as soon as possible, in consultation with the organisations of blind and partially sighted people and publishers.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 6 july 2017.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by sirpa pietikäinen, renata briano, mark demesmaeker, catherine bearder, anja hazekamp, keith taylor, eleonora evi on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on whaling in norway (o000058/2017 2017/2712(rsp) b80324/2017).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place in september. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the nobel prize laureates liu xiaobo and lee miong-che (2017/2754 ((rsp)).
the repeated and long-term detention of the outstanding writer and dissident liu xiaobo is an unprecedented scandal and i hope that the voice of this house will reach beijing and help change the tragic situation of this outstanding man. lee ming-che's situation is an emanation not only of china's human rights policy, which has been repeatedly violated, but also of china's policy towards taiwan. lee min-che was arrested on completely fabricated charges and these charges of subversive activities remind me of the worst times of stalinism in poland and martial law. they should be released immediately.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! burundi, one of the poorest countries in the world, is also experiencing a political crisis and serious human rights violations. i therefore believe that the decision to suspend direct aid to the burundian government was right and that this situation must continue until burundi complies with article 96 of the cotonou agreement. at the same time, however, the european union cannot turn its back on the burundian people. the union's financial contribution for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 5 million. it is also particularly important to ensure that refugee camps are safe places and to avoid returns against the will of refugees.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: thank you for your clarification. however, we have also recently debated the falsification and degradation of food products sent to central and eastern european countries by well-known western companies. these products were more expensive and of lower quality than those sent to the rich countries of the old 15, meaning that instead of butter we were given margarine and instead of sugar we were given harmful sweeteners. today, however, we are facing a much more serious problem of scandal, which threatens the health and even the lives of people by bringing into the union from brazil spoiled meat with cardboard fillers, preserved with acids, chemicals and contaminated with salmonella. it turns out that the biggest meat companies have been exporting substandard beef and poultry meat all over the world for years, including a large part to the european union, which is surprising, because we are supposed to have the highest food safety standards in the world. among the 30 meat producers investigated are the largest beef and poultry exporters, who exported meat that did not comply with sanitary regulations, which contradicts the notion that well-known companies cannot afford to falsify, which is sometimes emphasised. the meat companies were said to bribe officials and politicians alike, and because of the corruption, the dangerous practices went unnoticed by brazilian regulators. according to press reports, the european commission learned of the fraud from the press, even though the investigation of a meat exporter selling $12 billion worth of products had been ongoing for two years and the control authorities of the member states had reported various irregularities. all of this seems to be the result of the primacy of commerce and money over people's health and lives, which requires increased control. however, in the era of globalisation, this will be very difficult and the commissioner alone, together with the services, will not be able to do it. it would be good not only to introduce penalties but also to return to the principles in every area of life, preferably christian ones.
madam president! any violence against women is a pathology that must be fought. but let us not pretend that the istanbul convention is a magic wand that will free us from this problem. the istanbul convention is, unfortunately, an ideological ploy that, under the guise of supporting victims of violence, makes social relations fall prey to gender ideology and radical feminism. do the meps who will be voting tomorrow really want to sign the statement that violence against women is an entrenched part of the fabric of european society? and that's the point of it. let's face it, this is a very serious matter. ideology doesn't cease to be a threat just because it sometimes takes the side of the vulnerable. the european union's accession to the ideological convention will be another tragic mistake, and i therefore call for its rejection.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. today's debate on the ratification of the istanbul convention was important because it showed the intentions and possible consequences that this - i hope it will not happen - ratification may bring. the applicant for ratification, mrs revault d'allonnes bonnefoy, has been very clear that the protection of life before birth, the prohibition of so-called abortion, is a form of violence that this convention should combat. that's what mp peter niedermüller said, who was more specific because he said directly that he hoped this convention would be a tool to pressure his own state not to protect life before birth. in this context, i would ask commissioner jourová to make a clear declaration of respect for the countries whose legislation protects life before birth. we have a treaty right to do so and that is the declaration that should be made here today.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 september 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (known as the istanbul convention) is a source of controversy in various communities. but let us stop giving the various articles of the convention an ideological subtext. women have the right to choose the life they want, and they should not be stigmatized, stigmatized, and insulted for it. they have the right to decide about their bodies and their future. everyone will readily admit that they are against violence against anyone, but certain stereotypes still determine women's lives, pushing them into top-down social roles. physical, psychological and economic violence against women cannot be silenced. assistance to victims of sexual offences, prosecution of offenders, and education and prevention of violence are the comprehensive solutions provided by the convention and recognised by the un as the golden principles of anti-violence policy. i therefore support the european union's accession to the provisions of the convention which concern its competence, namely cooperation in the field of justice and asylum. i also hope that countries that have already declared or ratified the convention, such as poland, will not withdraw their support for this text and will implement its content.
the next item is the report drawn up by julie girling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the eu emissions trading system (eu ets): continuing the current limitation of aviation activities and preparing for the implementation of a global market measure from 2021 (com2017) 0054 - c8-0028/2017 - 2017/0017 (cod)) (a8-0258/2017).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! the paris agreement was made possible mainly because decarbonisation was deleted from its final text. it does not therefore blindly promote radical reductions in co2 emissions, but instead aims to achieve emission neutrality, i.e. a balance between emissions and the capacity to absorb them. the absorption capacity is provided in large measure by forests. so if we are to be true to the spirit of the paris agreement, we must develop policies that promote forest development and responsible management of forest resources. it is therefore essential that lulucf enables forest management that ensures the maintenance and development of carbon-absorbing forest resources on the one hand, and does not restrict those sectors of the economy that depend on forestry on the other. remember, forests have been the object of human activity for centuries. the ecr group therefore supports the rapporteur's amendment on forest reference levels, as it aims to provide the necessary flexibility.
mr. chairman, please! forests, as we know, have many functions that have a very positive impact on the functioning of ecosystems, on our lives, but also on reducing co2 emissions. it is estimated that forests in europe absorb one tenth of total greenhouse gas emissions each year, which represents a large absorption potential that should undoubtedly be maintained and developed. on the other hand, we must not forget that the forestry sector must also meet the growing demand for wood. the final shape of the legislation that we will adopt will therefore play a key role in the context of shaping forest management and will also affect the future and the activities of many entities operating within it and benefiting from its turnover. it is therefore worth remembering that the perception of forest resources as an effective way to contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions may also result in a relief for other high-carbon sectors of individual economies. it is also necessary to take account of the differences between member states and to advocate a position that will lead to the implementation of the paris agreement and the prevention of climate change in a balanced and comprehensive manner. this can certainly be achieved by integrating forest, climate and economic policies and by developing long-term plans and strategies for european forestry. i am very pleased that a large part of the amendments tabled focus on finding a compromise between the further development of forests, but also between the availability of wood.
in writing. – i would like to thank mr zver for his work on this report. lifelong learning is not only a mandatory part of every human life, but it is highly integrated into our traditional educational system. since it is imperative by today’s standards to hone ones knowledge, experience and skills, the educational system has to acknowledge rapid changes in circumstances and adapt accordingly. poor access to education can be a cause for uncompetitive workforces, social exclusion and even violent radicalisation. with the help of e-learning and distance education, even people who cannot access classical education because of insufficient funds, disabilities or other hindering factors are not being excluded from the learning process. increasing unemployment rate in europe could be held in check and dropout rates from schools may shrink if these new methods of education were properly implemented and access to them was ensured. further and distance education framework in europe should be built upon a cooperation of the member states also in the area of digital skills. more teachers need to be acquainted with digital competences and an eu-wide online platform to exchange good practices should be created.
madam president! in discussing important social issues, i wanted to ask especially those who care so much about the rule of law in poland: where is the dutch and belgian rule of law that made it possible to poison europe with fipronil, which was used especially in dutch, belgian and german chicken farms. the scandal, which was named by the european commission representative, has been going on for a year, as the belgian food safety agency has documents that indicate the presence of fipronil in dutch eggs at the end of november 2016, and the first samples were taken in may of that year. the information reached member states only in july 2017, resulting in millions of contaminated eggs and poultry meat being delivered to markets or consumed or used for the production of ready meals, posing a risk to public health and the environment.
the european union is dealing with the situation in poland right now because it says it cares about democracy and the rule of law. well, you can't have it both ways. either there's democracy or there's the rule of law. there is no compromise. if the constitution requires you to do a, and the people and the parliament demand you to do b, then the officer must know whether to do a, and then there is the rule of law, or whether to do b, and then there is democracy. you can't have both. at the moment in poland we are dealing with an attack of democracy on the rule of law. the majority has the majority and changes the law as it pleases. that's what democracy is. i'm an enemy of democracy, i hate democracy, but i want the rule of law.
mr. chairman, please! after a series of attacks on poland in the context of the differences between the executive and the judiciary - and it must be said that the tensions between these authorities are written into the very logic of the separation of powers - the time has come for us completely unexpected: poland is attacked because it wants to guarantee women the right to an early retirement. well, i want to inform the european commission, i have already told vice-president timmermans about this, that on 15 july 2010 the polish constitutional court clearly said that the right of women to an early retirement is part of the constitutional rights of women arising from motherhood, arising from the birth of children, often arising from the care of children in later life. of course, other countries can adopt other constitutional solutions, but it is impossible to speak of defending the court and the constitutional order in poland while attacking the principles of the court, which are specified by the constitutional court itself, and we demand respect for this constitutional order.
madam president! in a few days, the great zapad military maneuvers will take place on the territory of belarus, organized by the russian federation. the drills reportedly involve over 100,000 troops, several hundred tanks, artillery, and air force. this is the biggest maneuver since the fall of the soviet union. the concentration of such a large force on the eastern border of the european union must be a matter of great concern, because it directly threatens the security of the european union. i believe that the european union should express its firm opposition to this behaviour of the russian federation. i would like to point out that in a few days, september 17th, will also be the 78th anniversary of the treacherous and barbaric soviet invasion of poland in 1938. the organization of military maneuvers in these days is a provocation. i call on the european parliament, the council and the commission to respond appropriately to this behaviour by the russian federation.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner on a very good initiative, and also the rapporteur for his great work, all the shadow rapporteurs, and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) members. thanks to the maltese presidency, the negotiations were not very complicated because there was great political support for the idea. even if there are some doubts, listening to our colleagues, if we think of a more inclusive europe, of course we should start with such an idea. it is quite obvious. it is a big step towards our digital union. wifi4eu, with free hotspots in thousands of towns and villages, may be a real game-changer in some areas – better education, local business, tourism, citizens’ daily lives – but we need to go beyond that. in the itre committee we are committed to developing better connectivity throughout europe, better coordination of the radio spectrum, for example, which is very important, and to stimulate investments in the high-capacity networks across the continent. so if you would like to fight for a more inclusive europe, let us go forward. even if it is a great success, we should not stop now. digital union is a very important idea in front of us.
in writing. the wifi4eu initiative is a proposal that will help to strengthen the development of a more inclusive european information society. president juncker proposed that by 2020 the main centres of social life in every european village and every european city should be equipped with free wireless internet access. this will be done according to a plan that assumes equal access to internet connectivity regardless of where you live or your income level. the proposed amendments are intended to ensure better regulation of the principles on which the whole project is based. the issue of developing telecommunications infrastructure, in this case internet connections, is extremely important today. this affects the development of every institution, but also the comfort of the inhabitants. i live in bieszczady, in southeastern poland, where even cell phone access is limited in some places, not to mention the internet connection. as a representative of this region, i believe that the initiative to provide better telecommunications connectivity in areas that lack it will have a positive impact on overall social and economic development. it is hard to imagine that some europeans today do not have access to a common means of communication with their environment, the internet. development is largely about digitization, which we won't be ready for until we increase the availability of internet connections.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i welcome commissioner cañete and i would like to thank him for his very intensive involvement in our negotiations. they lasted for several hours. we finished the last round this morning. there was something unusual about these negotiations. we have decided to make certain concessions with a certain degree of flexibility for many of the countries which have raised objections to the original solutions put forward by the commission. i don't want to list all the countries, but certainly it was the italian, german, french, polish, austrian, hungarian and so on, and despite these moves, we managed to end the negotiations with a very good regulation that ensures the supply of gas to our homes, other protected customers, hospitals, emergency services, nursing homes, hospices always, even in the situations of the biggest crisis, which, after all, took place in the european union. it's also a guide to negotiating the next elements of our energy package. if we want to get a good or very good result, we also have to be flexible, because our citizens may not understand geopolitics, but they feel when the gas in their homes is turned off in winter. one country can cause a crisis like this, but one country certainly can't solve it, which is why this regulation is so important. i'm going to talk about three cases that we've been able to handle because of the flexibility that we've shown. first, a legally binding solidarity mechanism in case of serious problems with gas supply and a list of protected customers. this is the first time we've reached such an agreement. secondly, regional cooperation, which did not exist before, i.e. risk assessment, preparation of preventive measures, crisis plans, the introduction by parliament of so-called emergency supply corridors, was a response to the concerns of several countries related to the mandatory regional cooperation, which remained with these emergency corridors. and finally, greater transparency in gas contracts. remember that we are talking in this regulation about external supplies, which represent well over 50% of the european union's gas demand, and so it is these external contracts that decide our security within the european union. the most important contracts will be for the european commission as well as for the national authorities to review and, where justified, the european commission may also review other gas supply contracts. this is important if we are to feel really good about the european union. i would like to mention again that we had the help of the whole european commission, not just some specialised services. we also have director ristori, who was in the room during all the negotiations, for which we thank you. i would also like to mention the maltese presidency, which is over, but its contribution to a good solution was really solid, and these are our conclusions for the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you for your vote. i also thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and congratulate them. the situation on our eastern border is changing rapidly and is becoming more alarming. this regulation, which aims at ensuring the security of gas supply, is therefore a good step taken at the right time. the essential elements of this regulation are the facilitation of two-way gas flows, the increased exchange of important information on security of supply with the european commission and national authorities, and closer cooperation with the energy community. this will allow for a more coordinated response to future threats. while i believe that the adoption of this regulation is a step in the right direction, the european union and its security of gas supply are facing a new challenge, namely nord stream ii. this geopolitical project undermines european solidarity and is incompatible with the spirit of this regulation and one of the main objectives of the energy union, namely the diversification of gas supplies. in the spirit of this regulation, we must therefore act in a coherent manner to tackle this problem effectively. the discussion on the commission's statement on nord stream ii will take place as early as thursday and i hope it will confirm the need for uniform action to guarantee the security of gas supplies to all eu countries.
mr president, i very much welcome the conclusion of the trilogue negotiations on security of gas supply and i would like to congratulate our colleague, jerzy buzek, for this successful achievement. with the new rules, based on the principle of real solidarity and closer regional cooperation, the eu will be better prepared to face any potential disruption of gas supplies. this is good news. the document we are discussing today again shows that the european union and closer cooperation among member states benefit european citizens. i would like to raise one specific point: the priority for gas supplies goes to households and essential social services, so we know that we are protecting our citizens against any unforeseen and sudden disruption of gas supply. i congratulate the council, the commission and the parliament negotiation team on this compromise agreement. remember that gas is a strategic commodity and ensuring security of gas supplies is one of our utmost and most paramount tasks here in this parliament.
mr. chairman, please! i also wanted to congratulate prime minister buzkow on bringing the negotiations on this very difficult issue to such a fine conclusion. i would also like to say that this draft new regulation on the security of gas supplies complements the provisions adopted by the european parliament in march on intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy, mainly gas, which introduced a mandatory mechanism for verifying these agreements before they are signed, and both these regulations will undoubtedly increase the energy security of europeans. but i would also like to point out that there is a gap. the new rules will not be fully effective unless so-called non-binding instruments, such as memoranda of understanding and hybrid agreements concluded between member states and third country companies, or between eu companies and third countries, for example, or companies controlled by third countries, the best example of which is gazprom, are also subject to control.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, a big congratulations to prime minister buz for the job he's done. secondly, i am glad that our legislative work is coming to an end and that we will soon have a new and better regulation on the security of gas supply. i am convinced that through better regional cooperation, solidarity between countries and transparency in gas contracts, the european union will be a strong and united partner for external suppliers. i hope, however, that all these very positive changes and the great work done here in parliament will not turn out to be just a dead letter on paper. the nord stream ii pipeline is a threat to the security of gas supplies, to our european unity. unfortunately, it means concentrating supply routes, bypassing central and eastern europe, and undermining the position of ukraine, all of which are issues that we've been working on together for years. i'm not going to let you do this. i believe it is crucial that we stand united against projects such as nord stream ii and subject them to european energy rules.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to refer to the words of commissioner cañete. the negotiations were indeed very long, but the preparation and entry into force of the regulation itself was exceptionally short. we negotiated and reached an extraordinary agreement in the european parliament and we were a close team. then, i must admit, the european commission joined this team (thank you very much for the great cooperation and for the direct participation of both of you here in the negotiations) and finally we were able to bring the maltese presidency absolutely into our team. we must admit that the maltese presidency has made a great deal of effort to convince the individual member states. we're all in this together. individual members of parliament spoke to the representations of individual member states. the commission has also taken such action. i say this because we have the whole energy package, the eight regulations, the directives, on the table. all of them will have to be negotiated. on the one hand, it's a way of maintaining the main line and opening up to each other. very short points for the end. we said, "market first". you'll have to remember that. it's only in difficult situations that we use different solutions. it's very important to share information. also previous contracts and infrastructure contracts. another thing we've been paying a lot of attention to is the confidentiality of commercial contracts. and finally, the energy union that we are creating. we would like to create it together with the countries to the east of the european union, namely the western balkans, moldova, ukraine and georgia, and that is what is happening today, and that is the direction we are going. of course, we must mention intergovernmental agreements, because this is also a common element of our regulation, which was authored by mr krasnodębski. all of this has created the conditions for us to be able to get a really good regulation, but this is only the first stage of our work. we have a lot of work ahead of us on the energy union.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 september 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supply is proof that the energy union is no longer a mere slogan but is becoming a real and effective mechanism to support member states in the event of a gas supply disruption. it should be borne in mind that 90% of the gas that flows through europe crosses at least one national border. the risk of the effects of supply disruptions spreading internationally requires the widest possible cooperation at european level. in the past, the 'turn the gas knob' option has been used by russia as an instrument of political pressure or even blackmail against countries dependent on russian gas, especially central and eastern european countries, including poland. the commission's proposal for a regulation on measures to ensure the security of gas supplies is a means of protecting my faith in a united europe against the disappointment of the proliferation of protectionism and particularism in europe. at the same time, however, i hope that the nord stream 2 gas pipeline project, which directly affects europe's energy security and the very idea of an energy union, will be blocked just as quickly and effectively.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the fipronil scandal: how to improve the eu rapid alert system for food and feed (2017/2825 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in the debate on the scandal of the contamination of eggs and poultrymeat by fipronil from farms in the netherlands and belgium, i would point out that eight months had elapsed between the first threat and the response of the authorities in those countries. in the netherlands, an investigation into the illegal addition of fipronil to the preparation dega 16 was already carried out in november 2016, but it was not decided at that time to control the content of this substance in eggs and meat from poultry farms where this fipronil-aided preparation was used. it was the lack of response from the relevant authorities in the netherlands and belgium at the very beginning of the emergence of the risk of contamination of eggs and chicken meat that caused these products to appear in almost all countries of the european union. it is above all from this delay of several months that lessons should be drawn for the functioning of the union ras rapid alert system for food and feed. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
ladies and gentlemen! we have very little time, so i'm going to give you the blue card one last time. very well, congresswoman wiśniewska, if congressman kuzmiuk is willing to accept the blue card.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. ladies and gentlemen! food security is a key issue. unfortunately, food is becoming a real health hazard to consumers. the threat alert system turned out to be a hoax. i would like to ask you, mr. ambassador, how do you think that the dutchman frans timmermans, the vice-president of the european commission, so belligerent about fictitious problems in poland, will start, or has already started, a procedure to punish the netherlands for putting people's health at risk all over the world?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - the ambassador! i have just said that the delay of eight months was due to certain behaviour on the part of the dutch and belgian authorities. and i hope that commissioner andriukaitis has spoken or will speak to commissioner timmermans, who represents the netherlands on the commission. and as we can see, this country is responsible for bringing this situation about.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we have a fipronil scandal today. what scandal will there be tomorrow if the european commission does not finally take food safety control seriously? commissioner, you have stated that the criticism of the race system is unwarranted. i agree with you. this criticism is to the european commission for not ensuring food safety and for eight months, european union citizens, consumers, have been exposed to the consumption of eggs and poultry meat with fipronil. shouldn't the european commission assess the risks and order controls in the european union if there is a problem in belgium? it's not hard to predict. you're playing down the risk. fipronil is particularly harmful when used for long periods of time, it damages the nervous system, it damages the kidneys, the liver and the thyroid. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, i have listened to the debate with great attention – a debate that was carried by deep concern about public health in europe. the protection of public health in the eu is extremely important. this is why, over the years, the eu has built a comprehensive and solid system to ensure safe food for all and to detect unsafe or adulterated food. the events this summer call for a renewed assessment of this system. at the same time, all actors involved have to remain vigilant and act to ensure that there are no flaws in the functioning of the current system in place. if the in-depth assessment of the fipronil crisis shows the need to review and to improve the system, we should all stand ready to do whatever is required. commissioner andriukaitis, besides answering all the questions of substance, also laid out the next steps. 26 september will be the next chance at a high-level meeting to discuss these issues.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
thank you for that vote, thank you for your reactions.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
thank you very much. thank you. we're taking note of this speech, although it's a little off the side of what we're voting on.
i hereby close the vote.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to point out that this is a crucial report. finally, it is not a compromise on this matter, but an optimal evaluation of the important activities of both the european parliament and the commission. first of all, i would like to point out that the need to build long-term financial guarantees was emphasised, which is very important. secondly, the report concludes that the civilian galileo and copernicus space systems must also play a role in the security of europe, the security of its citizens. and the last thing i want to point out is that it came out of the report, and it covers two things: the need to improve education and the need to promote the project itself. it's what makes it effective.
mr. chairman, please! my friend milan zver did a great job here. but i want to emphasize that he was very mild in his judgments. from my point of view, it was worth supporting this report, but it is also worth pointing out that distance learning leaves much to be desired. in short, we have a lot to do here. in supporting the bologna system, i would also like to draw attention to its limitations. the diversity of training models, their better alignment or their adaptation to business tasks and markets will serve europe. and while we need to promote this uniformity of the whole design, the whole system, that is, the use of specific matrices, i still advocate for some diversity, some flexibility, some freedom, both at the academic level and below, because it will serve the labor market, in short, our economic and economic prosperity.
mr president, the subject of animal welfare is very important to me personally. i believe that modern politics must protect animals. animals are living beings that suffer, and we have to perceive these things. animals are not things. that is why i have today supported the european parliament's resolution which clearly calls on norway, which does not comply with the ban on commercial whaling, to comply with the ban and to stop increasing the quotas it fixes every year and increasing the number of whales caught every year. whales are living creatures, and they have an extremely beneficial contribution to the marine ecosystem. in addition, this method of hunting is extremely unethical and painful for the animals. so i am very pleased that we adopted this resolution and i fully supported it.
mr. chairman, please! everyone, especially at a certain level of personal development, including at the national level, should take action against all forms of violence against women, both domestic and psychological. however, i voted against the report for the simple reason that violence should not be fought with violence, and such signs have provisions treating the refusal to kill a conceived child as violence apart from other controversial terms. i also remind those who use the argument of body control that as humans, we have limited power and cannot control most of our physiological or automatic functions. the more the unborn child is not a part of the body, it is a separate being most vulnerable to violence according to the eu law which says abortion is a human right. using ideological pressure, he also uses violence.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to start by saying that i am strongly opposed to all forms of violence against women, but the istanbul convention does not solve the problem of violence, because it is a tool of political and ideological propaganda that serves to promote a gendered concept that is harmful to society. the convention points out, ladies and gentlemen, that the source of violence is the stereotypical roles of women and men, and that these roles are considered to be those of women as mothers and wives and of men as husbands and fathers. in the name of non-discrimination, discrimination is being applied against those who value the christian roots of european culture. that's why i voted against this convention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the fact that parliament has today, by a large majority of 60%, recognised that the protection of the lives of the most vulnerable is a form of violence, and that it has now confirmed this by an even larger majority of 72%, is not only an attack on the right to life, because you have stopped counting on it, it is an attack on the rights of peoples, it is an attack on the future of europe and it is an attack on our shared destiny. so i don't know what you're hoping for, what's more contempt or hostility? the hostility of the belief that states that want to protect the lives of the weakest should be excluded, or the contempt of the belief that we can be forced into such practices? one thing is certain. the political forces that today dominate the leadership of the european union and that today dominate the largest countries in europe are leading europe to disaster. we've seen a lot of crises, brexit, the immigration crisis, but the ones that are coming as a result of the policies that you're pursuing in this country are going to be even bigger unless we can turn this around.
mr president, i voted no because it goes against the policy of equal rights of sexes. i do not understand why women must be preferred to men. i must inform you that the president of the silesian branch of our party, who was a doctor in a big hospital in a big silesian town, says that the number of husbands hurt by their wives is greater than the number of wives hurt by men, because men almost never admit that they have been beaten by a woman. so i do not see why there is this inequality.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank members very much for this debate. it has again become clear that arms exports is a field paved with extremely complex sets of issues: humane, moral, economic, geopolitical, political and so on. i will not go into these issues here, but i want to support what michael gahler said earlier in this debate, namely that, of all arms exporters, the eu has the most robust system in place for oversight and reporting, with criteria in place, probably in the whole world. that is perhaps not something that can be appreciated by everybody, but it is at least a fact that must be acknowledged by everybody, including in this house. there were two more specific sets of questions, the first concerning arms exports to the countries in the middle east region, more particularly to countries like syria, saudi arabia, iraq and yemen. i was referring to the criteria, and criteria no 2, the human rights criteria, was used as a reason for denial of an export licence 72 times in the year 2015 and 89 times in the year 2016. you may say it is not enough, but it is also a trend to be observed. as for the calls to issue an eu arms export embargo for any particular country in the world, it must be known for that that the unanimous support of all eu member states is needed. now let me thank you for this very useful exchange. one of the main achievements of the eu common position relates to increased transparency across the eu on arms export issues. our discussion today demonstrates that detailed information is regularly made available at eu level and open for parliamentary and public scrutiny. the fact that national decisions on arms exports are reported, and therefore questioned, in turn supports the responsibility of the competent authorities and fosters their accountability. this nexus between transparency and responsibility is the essence of the eu common position and, at the larger global level, of the arms trade treaty. the eu common position specifies very clearly that licensing decisions remain at the national discretion of eu member states. against this background of national responsibility, the eu common position supports greater convergence through a number of common elements and information sharing. as such, convergence remains, by definition, always a work in progress. the improvements decided as a result of the review of the eu common position have supported further convergence. undoubtedly, greater parliamentary scrutiny at the national and the eu level, as called for by the present report, can further incentivise convergence. let me close on this note of truly shared interests and by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the agenda.
in writing. the eu countries are a major supplier of arms in the world, with the value of eu exports accounting for 26% of total arms exports. this means that the eu is the second largest arms exporter after the united states (33%), ahead of russia (23%). in the last few years, arms exports to the middle east have practically doubled. the problem is that some of these weapons end up in unstable countries and are used not only in armed conflicts but also for internal repression. there are also cases where weapons from eu countries are being used by terrorist groups, for example in syria and iraq. all of this means that the union should radically increase its controls on arms exports. export licences must also include an assessment of the risk that the arms will reach a recipient other than the one specified in the order.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. you've been talking about things you don't want. nobody wants a war in korea. you said you didn't want sanctions, but what are the means by which you would like to persuade the communist regime of korea to get rid of the nuclear weapons you speak of? well, you have to put some pressure on him. what instruments do you have? are we supposed to be arguing, talking? because it doesn't seem like the right means to pressure the regime.
mr president, north korea is an island of its own making: self-isolated by internal atrocities and threats posed to the international community. i welcome further sanctions, although i regret that they are at a lower level than initially proposed by the us. accepting non-invasive means of coercion, we have to ensure their effectiveness and make it effective quickly to avoid darker scenarios.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the ambassador! you've been critical of the united states government, but i'd like to know if you really believe that if the americans back down, rule out the possibility of a military response in advance, that it will increase the regional security of communist korea's neighbors? will this increase the security of the republic of korea? will this make japan safer? no one wants war there, but the proposal to give up the possibility of military response is really a reference to . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. your highness! ladies and gentlemen of the house! it is a very good point, the point made by the high representative, that all our countries in the european union should speak with one voice. but first we have to listen to each other collectively, and we need the european union authorities to listen to the individual countries. we would be better able to deal with the immigration crisis if the european union authorities had given up trying to manage it at the expense of the states from the start. today there were important words about this nightmare "industrial" human trafficking, about this criminal mafia, or mafias, illegal immigration. but unfortunately, we have to be aware that it is the governments that are guided by the immigration ideology, that it is the international organizations that are guided by this ideology, that it is the ngos that have created the demand for this mafia. we really need to rethink what we've been doing.
madam president! the eu has finally understood from what mrs mogherini said that the first priority is to help on the ground and that the external borders must be effectively protected. we are all prepared to help in any way we can. the idea that europe can take in millions of immigrants without causing a political and social disaster in europe is a dangerous illusion, and the refugee problem is another, and here, as mr fleckenstein rightly said, they are mixed. and it is the states that have the right to decide on the flow of immigrants into their territory, and it is the free european societies, and no one else, that can decide on their ethnic and religious composition.
madam president! the main problem of turkey is the kurds, and we must remember that at this moment, a new kurdistan is being formed on the borders of turkey, after iraq. the turkish army is to be admired for standing with their weapons at their feet and arming themselves for the eventuality. in this situation, the kurds, a very friendly people, have a choice: either if they are weak, president assad will finish them off, or if they are strong, they will declare independence, and then the turkish army will go in and finish them off. so i think that the european union should -- as i proposed when the kurds were here last year -- insist that there be an agreement between the kurds, that they have broad autonomy -- as they have in iraq -- and thereby end this fighting in northern syria, which is very painful for all involved. thank you for your attention.
mr president, venezuela is a beautiful country rich in resources with a soviet-style kleptocratic regime killing its own people and their aspirations. amazing that the foreign minister of such a regime was able to speak yesterday on human rights before the human rights council of the united nations.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. latin america is one of the fastest growing regions in the world, but it is also a region of enormous economic inequality. we must bear this in mind when building good political and economic relations between the european union and all the countries of the region. i am pleased that this report recognises the need to accelerate the ongoing negotiations on the update of the eu-mexico general agreement. in the face of the crisis in us-mexican relations, the eu should seize the opportunity to strengthen this area of its trade policy, especially as mexicans expect it. the european union must also increase political and economic pressure on the venezuelan government, whose actions are deepening the internal crisis that has been going on for months. ladies and gentlemen, communism has already fallen once and even people as capable as the venezuelans are not able to rebuild it, but they are unfortunately able to bring their own country to ruin, which of course we do not wish them to do.
in writing. in many countries, corruption is a significant systemic obstacle to the application of democracy, respect for the rule of law, the achievement of political freedom and sustainable development, and the enjoyment of all human rights. corruption is a global phenomenon, spreading across borders, brutally hitting the most deprived in developing countries, undermining sustainable development and deepening inequalities and the gap between the ruling elite and the majority. corruption also negatively affects trade and its benefits. i am convinced that trade policy can be an important tool for improving human rights in third countries in conjunction with other eu policies, in particular foreign policy and development cooperation. trade agreements can be used more effectively to combat corruption and to ensure that international conventions and principles are applied in practice. in this context, enhanced cooperation between countries and regions and the activities of civil society organisations in the fight against corruption should be promoted. reducing this practice is essential for economic growth, poverty reduction, prosperity creation, education, social and health care, infrastructure development and conflict resolution, as well as trust in institutions, businesses and political action. i believe that it is very important for the main partner and donor, the european union, to put continuous pressure on the elites in third countries to improve the way they govern.
the climate in europe today is different, and so was the tone of the 2017 state of the union address. this is more than just official optimism. last year, we were in shock after the british referendum, and there was a lot of speculation about who would succeed brexit. it seemed that populism, xenophobia, would dominate public sentiment in europe. but fortunately, the shock has turned into shock therapy, and today it's not europe, but the british isles that are in the shadow of brexit. today we are confident that the great work of the founding fathers of the european communities will be continued. we have scenario number six. today, the economy and politics are the source of good news, but there are exceptions, and because there are exceptions, i would like to state with all my strength that my country, poland, which will also celebrate the centenary of its independence next year, is inhabited by people who, for the most part, feel at home in europe because they feel at home. and i would like to declare on behalf of my delegation that we will do everything in our power to ensure that poland also participates fully in the search for and creation of a new european unity.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i do not hide the fact that i am a little surprised that president juncker has said little about the implications of brexit. if you, like me, think that the british exit from the union is a great defeat and a great loss for the union, you might expect the president to tell us that some of the causes of brexit have been eliminated. but nothing was said about it, and it even seemed like the uk leaving the eu was a success. i don't think it's a success, but a failure. president juncker said that he had proposed several scenarios, and that there had been a discussion or a debate. i have to ask, what debate? we can talk about debate when we don't know what the conclusions will be. here, however, the conclusions have already been made, and even before they were made, it was known what they were going to be. these proposals are 'more of the same', or in european parlance 'more europe'. is this the right solution? are we being taken seriously? if we're in a debate, we're listening to the arguments and responding to them. notice the words that have been said here today about those who have a different viewpoint. they talked about idiots, they talked about viruses, they talked about extremists, and they even threatened to take their money. is this a serious conversation? if this is to continue, we can already see what will happen: sooner or later, the next step will be taken, i.e. 'more europe'. there will be a chairman, then another minister, then another minister. no matter what happens, you have to keep going, as one of you said, at all costs. well, there's no need to go any further, ladies and gentlemen. you have to look at what's going on. one of my colleagues rightly said that it is not true that the violation of the rule of law and the law concerns the latter, the others. it's happening here, it's happening within the european union. the rules are being broken on a regular basis by the major eu institutions, including the european commission, and the double standard has become a habit. this means that there are groups, institutions or parties that are allowed to do virtually anything and get away with it, and others, of course weaker and smaller, who are allowed very little. so let's start by cleaning up our own backyard. president juncker has spoken about the renovation. so let's start with the renovation. let the commission start by overhauling the commission, and then we will build some other super institutions, because first we must cure the disease that is afflicting the european institutions. and i hope it happens as soon as possible.
in writing. – the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, presented today (13.09.2017) his annual state of the union speech, in which he addressed the biggest issues and challenges of the present eu. i welcome the intention to escape from the multi-speed scenario that could place poland, along with the other member state outside of the euro area, in a less favourable position. having in mind the deepening divide between the east and the west, the old member states and the new ones, i find the commitment to the united and cooperating europe as a fundament for a positive future development of the eu. jean-claude juncker also mentioned the topics regarding double standards of food and the posting of workers in the single market, reacting to a problem of different wages for the same job. i believe that the rules to tackle those urgent issues are in place, thus we should focus on their effective application, as president juncker also implied. we are not in need for new laws, we are in need for more effective legislation enforcement tools. referring to the conclusion of his speech i hope that the sun will shine long enough for fixing the roof of europe completely.
in writing. this year's speech by the president of the commission was visionary and courageous. the tone of the president's remarks suggested that he wanted to breathe a new life into the european project, to give it a boost and to allow it to escape from the problems that had been present in the union in recent times. the 2017 message was particularly striking against the backdrop of last year, which was the period just after the british people's decision to withdraw from the union and before the elections in austria, the netherlands and france, in which the success of the anti-european parties was expected to continue. in the year you have just mentioned, europe has caught the wind. but we cannot be too optimistic. the risk of populist power strikes in key member states may have been averted for the time being, but the number of eurosceptics continues to grow. it's good that we've fought off the onslaught of populist forces, but have we learned from their growing popularity? have the causes of brexit been identified? we cannot afford to focus solely on the conditions of exit without drawing the appropriate conclusions. president juncker's optimism is also due to the continent's increasingly positive economic situation. economic indicators are the best they've been in years: employment is at an all-time high, unemployment is falling to near pre-crisis levels, investment is rising, and debt is falling.
in writing. the situation in the european union is improving. the eu economy is gradually emerging from the economic crisis and is slowly gaining momentum, the influx of refugees has been halted, and negotiations with the uk have begun to work out an agreement to minimise the negative consequences of the uk's withdrawal from the eu for citizens. this does not mean that the dangers have completely disappeared. the challenges we face are first and foremost to ensure that europeans have a sound european economy and security, including economic security, but also energy security, for example. we've managed to break the wave of populism in europe, but that doesn't mean that the hybrid threats are gone. combating disinformation will be one of the major long-term challenges facing the eu. that is why it is so important to prepare well for them. above all, we need better diagnosis and prediction of problems, the ability to respond to threats and effective strategies for dealing with crises. enhanced military cooperation, joint action on trade and the transformation of the european stability mechanism into a lasting safety net to protect not only national budgets but also household budgets and the quality of life of europeans are good proposals that serve this purpose.
mr. chairman, please! i voted to exclude aviation from the harmful and senseless ets - a system that has been a burden on european companies for years, a system that has caused unemployment to rise and companies to flee the union. let us not give in to the green dictates, let us fight for economic freedom, because only freedom will bring growth and new jobs to europe, only freedom is the answer to the recklessness of politicians. that's why i'll always support her. the authors of the report under vote themselves admitted that the ets does not work and does not achieve the expected results. the inclusion of aircraft in the framework only leads to higher ticket prices and additional costs for businesses and citizens. i also find that there are no votes in this report for a general condemnation of the system.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this act, misguided by noble naïveté. we have an illustration, since we do not want to sell weapons to turkey: turkey bought missiles from russia for 2.5 billion. i don't think the perpetrators of this act are russian agents. why would russia pay for fools who vote the way the russians want them to? i am interested in the fact that european industry is losing out, and i was strongly against this act.
mr. chairman, please! the 'dieselgate' case has to be looked at from many angles: firstly, we had to deal with a clear fraud and misleading of consumers who were not properly informed by the car companies about the specifications of the vehicles sold to them. the scandal is that the operators responsible for this fraud in europe refuse to cooperate with consumers and make it difficult for them to pursue their claims, and the even bigger scandal is that so far no one has been caught red-handed. secondly, we have to be honest about the fact that the reason for this policy of the car manufacturers was the rising environmental standards and the tightening of the emission standards, which were far ahead of the technological possibilities and generated enormous costs. it doesn't explain the fraud, of course, but it certainly explains the manipulation. and thirdly, 'dieselgate' is evidence of huge gaps in the european vehicle approval and inspection system. but i don't think that creating another eu agency will solve this problem. member states have the appropriate tools to conduct effective testing, but they need to apply them effectively and coordinate their actions better, also with the support of the commission.
mr. chairman, please! on the one hand, the european union countries are incurring huge costs to reduce their emissions, and on the other hand, the european commission is not enforcing the standards imposed. how many more of these things are we gonna have to deal with before we can find a way to effectively defend against them? ladies and gentlemen, thousands of consumers have been choosing diesel cars, believing that they are protecting the environment, when in fact they have been deceived. what's most disturbing about this whole thing is that the emissions figures were manipulated with the intent to increase profits. it is safe to say that the european union's efforts to combat climate change and reduce the negative environmental impact of motor vehicles have been completely ignored and violated. perhaps we should ask ourselves whether the standards that the european commission imposes on various industries are not too high and the costs of introducing them are not too high? perhaps this is the subject of the next debate that should take place in the european parliament. however, the rules apply to all, and those who break them should be punished with all firmness. at this point, the question to the commission is: what sanctions has it imposed on volkswagen two years after the 'dieselgate' scandal became public and when will consumers receive the same compensation as consumers in the united states? are we a worse kind of consumer?
i'm not going to let you down. there is something uplifting about the efforts of firefighters across the european union to make fire safety a public issue. to be effective, firefighters need not only the firefighting equipment, but also the fire-fighting equipment, the fire-fighting equipment, and the fire-fighting equipment. in many countries, regulations are outdated or buildings are not up to date. in poland, for years, an analysis of the toxicity of smoke from various building materials, as it is produced during a fire, has been required. this, as well as fire resistance testing, must be mandatory everywhere to eliminate the most toxic elements and mark them. it's not enough to underestimate the firefighters. we need to invest in their efforts and stimulate regulatory change in different countries to improve safety. a european platform for the exchange of data on threats and good practices is key to learn from each other's best practices.
mr. chairman, please! after the london tragedy, we all know that it can't happen again. we need safer building materials, better fire safety systems, comprehensive solutions also at european level. i want to make sure that the disability issue is clearly included in this discussion. imagine a man in a wheelchair who is forced to evacuate himself by climbing the stairs in the chaos of a fire. fire alarms, fire alarm systems must also be available in practice, not just in theory, for the blind and deaf. it is therefore necessary to develop a system of effective assistance and a platform for the exchange of best practices. commissioner, i would like to declare my full support for this matter.
thank you very much, mr president, and i am glad that we have been able to reach an agreement here in the european parliament which raises the standards for access to products and services for people with various disabilities in our common market. of course, many of us would prefer these requirements to go further, but already in the discussions in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, where i sit, we have clearly seen that we must be realistic, that not everything is possible at once and that we must take into account the costs and changes for entrepreneurs (i am thinking here primarily of the smallest). of course, this does not mean that we should not make further efforts, but we must do so in a gradual, prudent, and reasonable way. on the one hand, we must make our market more and more open not only to people with various disabilities but also to the elderly, as many of my colleagues have already mentioned. on the other hand, we must ensure that these requirements are rational, that they encourage innovation and that they do not lead to the failure of our entrepreneurs. adapting products and services to the needs of all of us as we are also means broadening the base of our common market, which is a huge benefit for businesses. we are still a long way from putting these changes into effect, as the council has not yet adopted a general approach, but i hope that this will happen soon so that our citizens can feel the positive effects of this directive as soon as possible. i expect, among other things, very much positive action from the polish government on this matter in the council. i thank my colleagues, i thank morten løkkegaard for his hard work in removing barriers for all eu citizens.
mr. chairman, please! the costs and burdens of adaptation are often raised in the debate on the accessibility act. but i think that the focus on the availability of goods and services is primarily an investment. disabled people and the elderly are a huge group of consumers who are interested in spending money on the services and goods available to them. it is also a group with serious social and economic potential. the accessibility act is a natural consequence of our union's international commitments, and the consequence of europe's civilizational development is the creation of an accessible environment in which everyone can lead an active life and contribute to common social and economic development. i therefore call for the adoption of an ambitious draft accessibility act, which millions of europeans are waiting for. tomorrow we'll take the first step in that direction, i hope. maybe not as big as we'd like, but certainly not the last.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 14 september 2017.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on hurricane irma (2017/2839 ((rsp)).
mr cornillet, i respect your freedom of expression, but it was catch-the-eye rather than a question. catch-the-eye procedure
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the report by ulrike rodust, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the multiannual plan for demersal stocks in the north sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks (com ((2016) 0493 - c8-0336/2016 - 2016/0238 (cod)) (a8-0263/2017).
mr. chairman, please! the essence of the good report by mrs ulrike rodust is the implementation in the north sea of the key aspects of the reform of the common fisheries policy. therefore, the multiannual plan should ensure that the management objectives and targets and the management standards are the same and cover all demersal stocks in the north sea. in addition, the recovery orders for harvested species should apply to all stocks of hake. the multiannual plan aims to ensure that these plants are operated sustainably and in line with msy principles. the report will also facilitate the introduction of a landing obligation and, through regional cooperation, find solutions for so-called blocking species in multi-species fisheries. it should also be noted that the european union's marine waters are a symbolic system of interconnected vessels. disregard for the ecosystem and any departure from sustainable fishing in the north sea will sooner or later have fatal consequences for the other seas around the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! i am strongly in favour of making the erasmus programme more flexible and extending it in every way, including budgetary terms. this program worked. many students have acquired greater competences, and have become familiar with the cultures of other european nations. it must also be strengthened in a financial sense. instead of creating new agencies, as president juncker said in his speech this morning, it is possible to increase the budget for erasmus successfully, for the future of the young generation and for europe as a whole. i also want to raise another issue with commissioner navracsics, namely the question of the functioning of the programme after brexit. the uk was a highly sought-after erasmus country and the british visited european countries as part of erasmus. ensure that the exchange of erasmus models continues despite brexit. this is the call of the european christian political youth , one of the youth organisations operating at european level. the resolution raises this issue and i fully agree with the arguments of the organization. let's make sure that brexit doesn't stop or destroy the exchange of young people between the uk and the eu.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. let us ask ourselves: what is the precondition for the implementation of the plans presented by president juncker today? citizens who understand europeanism and respect fundamental values such as equality, freedom and the rule of law are aware of this essential condition. the best representatives of this european identity are the erasmus generation. erasmus+ must therefore remain a well-funded flagship programme of the european union. but even the best design has room for improvement. firstly, erasmus must be accessible to all, including people from disadvantaged backgrounds and people with disabilities. once again, the amount of the scholarship must be adjusted to the cost of living in the host country. the next issue: the validity of periods of study abroad and the credit points earned there must be respected 100%, this should not be a problem for students. thirdly, cooperation between national agencies is necessary to produce high-quality information material, to simplify procedures and to develop minimum criteria for objective evaluation. the last thing, commissioner, that i would ask you to do is to point out that erasmus participants, especially younger ones, often produce material of lasting intellectual value. these are great virtual tourist routes, these are descriptions of their regions, their customs. let's try to put them all on one portal, which would not only showcase these works, but also exemplify european values and remain a permanent achievement of erasmus.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. as you mentioned, erasmus is a programme with many benefits. this is evident from the fact that over the past 30 years, 9 million students, pupils, teachers and educators have taken part in it, and in the past three years alone, 2 million people from over 33 countries have done so. we also know that the knowledge gained through exchanges has contributed to a greater understanding and respect of other cultures and their values. education and closer integration contribute to reducing the risk of radicalisation and social exclusion. for these reasons, i believe that erasmus+ is and will be an investment in knowledge, skills and competences, which benefit both individuals, including people with disabilities, and organisations, as well as society as a whole, and that is why increasing the programme's development funding is so important for future generations of europeans. in order to make the programme even more accessible, member states should endeavour to facilitate the mutual recognition of courses and the inclusion of ects credits obtained during exchanges. i believe that only in this way can the programme's full potential be realised and the strategic objectives of the framework for european cooperation in education be achieved.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work on this report. i believe that the further development of education and training systems in the european union is of the utmost importance, especially in the context of dynamic technological change and evolution. colleagues have already mentioned how many millions of europeans - and this is confirmed by oecd data - have significant problems with basic skills such as reading, writing and arithmetic. for this reason, the resolution of this issue should be treated as an absolute priority. it is important to create a european-wide skills forecasting tool that will allow young people to develop and also identify competences that will be useful in the future. the ability to navigate the media, digital world and the ability to think critically are today the attributes necessary to adapt in the modern workplace. therefore, entrepreneurship and creativity should be encouraged from an early age. we know how important it is to be proficient in the use of digital tools today, and therefore closing the technological gaps in the education system and maintaining funding for the development of education in europe should be a matter of utmost importance.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! we talk a lot about the labor market here today, but i want to emphasize that in my opinion, we cannot shape and see the education system as a service system for the labor market. it should be the other way around, and it is the other way around: what we do in education systems results in a fairer - or better - or worse - labour market. that's my first observation. secondly, because education shapes the labour market, transversal, soft and key skills are so important, and have been the subject of the new skills agenda for europe. it's very good that it happened. i'm very happy that there's going to be a review of the key skills, because it's important to build the job market properly. i'd like to say that i view this program as an intervention. we have a huge problem in europe when it comes to skills: 40% of employers cannot find workers with the right skills. more than 20 percent (and sometimes more) of people have problems with reading, writing, comprehension, or basic skills. we have 2 million job openings and 25 million unemployed, so we need to intervene, and this program is the way to do that.
in writing. in the eu, as many as a quarter of people do not have the skills they need for the jobs they do, and as many as 40% of employers cannot find workers with the right qualifications. up to 70 million people in the union lack basic reading, writing and numeracy skills. this means that the measures taken so far are not producing the expected results. the main reasons for this state of affairs can be identified. first, no one has learned from the programs that are already in place. secondly, we have seen a decline in spending on education and training in recent years. between 2010 and 2014, they decreased by as much as 2,5% across the union. the first thing we should do is to call on the commission to examine the implementation of the programmes so far and to learn from the mistakes made, and on the governments of the member states not to seek to cut back on this sensitive sector of social policy. in the new skills programme, we must focus, among other things, on meeting the current needs of the labour market. future-oriented action and a deeper reflection on what can be done to meet these needs in the coming decades are needed. the effective implementation of new training and education systems requires time, and therefore current efforts should focus on projected needs rather than on those that currently exist.
in writing. in a knowledge society, education is a key aspect of life activity. quality education is essential to equip young people with the knowledge, attitudes, skills and attitudes that will help them understand and change the world. education has a huge impact on many areas of economic and social life, so we need a holistic approach to education and policies that support quality education at every level. continued access to lifelong learning is particularly important for the most disadvantaged and for persons with disabilities. i also pay particular attention to the status, working conditions, remuneration, qualifications and skills of teachers, trainers, mentors and educators. the implementation of the european skills agenda depends on the quality of education, which is guaranteed by teachers. education systems should attract the best people, who should enjoy the support of parents and the local community and be provided with continuous professional development opportunities.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on an interesting and comprehensive report. i agree with them that entrepreneurship education must start in primary school. as i have emphasised on many occasions (including in my own report on the skills strategy to combat youth unemployment), entrepreneurship is also about initiative and creativity. these skills are helpful in professional and social life, which is why i think it's crucial to develop them. i also support the rapporteur's call for an integrated approach to the development of education and training strategies. i believe that with this approach, disability will no longer be a barrier to the development of potential and to being an active entrepreneur, worker, citizen.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the nord stream ii project has no market justification. it is incompatible with european law, in particular with the third energy package. it is also incompatible with the fundamental european values to which the commission refers so often. it will have a catastrophic impact on the diversification of central and eastern europe. yet, the project has not been abandoned. perhaps because he enjoys enormous political support not only in russia, as mr weber said. the symbol of this state of affairs is indeed gerhard schroeder, recently appointed director of russia's rosneft, who continues to exert influence in germany and europe. i should also add that chancellor angela merkel also supported this project. the commission should therefore show more courage and determination also in the face of those anti-european projects in which the enterprises of the strongest member states take part and which are supported by their political and economic elites.
on behalf of the enf group. - madam president! - i have to go. we see that a project like nordstream is a big engineering project, but we focus more on the other aspects of it, and the most visible are the business aspects. and here we are focusing on the even more important aspects, that is, the political aspects, the possibility of political influence, that is, the use of political pressure or even political blackmail using such a serious tool as the transfer of hydrocarbons. i would like to draw attention to another aspect that we are missing here. well, this is a very important symbolic aspect. this shows the changes that are taking place in european politics. so you're building a kind of orwellian world, where all countries are equal, but some countries are more equal. we speak a lot of beautiful words here, and real politics is where the silence lasts. there is a silence on the process that you see in the nordstream pipeline: all these aspects of political influence are in the hands of russia and germany, because the whole supply chain and distribution of hydrocarbons will be in the hands of germany and russia, and they will have the tools to implement their own policies through blackmail and pressure. and we can't pretend not to see it.
madam president! we are indeed debating a matter that is extremely important, extremely - i would say - hot, topical and controversial. i share the commissioner's view, which mr weber has also confirmed, and i welcome it. first, this investment does not increase the diversification of gas supply sources, on the contrary, it makes us more dependent on one source of supply, and the creation of facts in the form of a multibillion-dollar investment makes this dependence permanent or potentially permanent. secondly, it was mentioned that the costs could be lower. remember that in a market dominance situation, costs and their level are never guaranteed. there was no mention of ecology, which is also very important. i would add that i share the views of those who say that the project is political. political not because of gerhard schröder, but political in a larger sense: political because of the omission of the countries and voices that object to this project. finally, it should be noted that there is no clear separation of functions between the infrastructure management board and the supplier. for this reason, the mandate should discourage us from undertaking this project.
madam president! thank you, commissioner, for joining us again. ladies and gentlemen, we have actually had three such debates in the european parliament. the conclusion is similar, as you can see, to what was there before. the european parliament's overwhelming majority is against nordstream 2 because it does not meet the conditions and principles of the energy union and cannot be granted any derogations or financial support. the council is now to decide on the mandate, but it is not known what procedure and how it will be voted. once the mandate is given, the european commission may enter into negotiations, but the negotiating mandate and, above all, the results of the negotiations must be accepted by the european parliament in accordance with the appropriate procedure. this is a very complicated matter. we would be clear if this mandate said that the pipeline up to the border of a third country, through the whole of the baltic, must comply with european union law, and especially with the third energy package.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! in politics in general, and in nord stream ii in particular, we have to distinguish between words and deeds. construction of nord stream ii should be stopped immediately. this bill actually compromises our sanctions against russia. he's compromising our policy in the east. moreover, it should be recalled that it also compromises actions that the european commission has supported, such as the minsk agreements. the nord stream ii project is actively supported and its party is germany, which is the country that in some sense on behalf of the european union - because with the support of the commission - concluded the minsk agreements. let us remember what several colleagues have said, for example mr tibor szanj: nord stream i was directed against poland and the baltic states, nord stream ii is a project directed primarily against ukraine. if we are serious about what we are saying, nord stream ii should be sanctioned as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all the members of this parliament who have participated in the debate, because they have confirmed the importance that this house, and all its members, attaches to the security of supply of gas. let me tell you that since i took office my main concern has been to make sure that every single country had access to three different sources of supply and was not dependent on a single supply. that has been the focus of our activity. we have thus supported the southern corridor to bring gas from azerbaijan. that is why we delivered an lng gas strategy to eliminate dependence on russian gas and have other possibilities in addition to imports of lng from a lot of countries in which there is an abundant production of gas, and that is why we are also supporting the eastmed gas pipeline which will bring gas from cyprus, egypt, israel, from the leviathan and from zohr gas fields, to the european union as it is fundamental to have another one. that is also why we want to finish all the interconnectors, even those in the iberian peninsula, the midcat. we will connect the iberian peninsula with the central european gas network in order to have more security of supply. our guideline has been to have diversification of sources and to support those gas pipelines which are really useful for security of supply, and not give support to pipelines like nord stream 2 which can never become a project of common interest because it does not increase our security of supply and it also creates problems for dominant positions in the market in the end. that is the first thing. what is the problem? the problem is that if we could apply european union legislation directly we would have done so, but our legislation has some problems and that is why we are doing two things now. firstly, asking for a mandate so that the council allows the commission to negotiate with the russian federation in order to apply all the principles of our current legislation. and secondly, we are changing our legislation to prevent this from happening in the future. so we will do two things – legislative change and a mandate. i very much appreciate the words of mr weber when he said that the german government should also support the mandate because we need the commission to be in a strong position to negotiate not only application of the principles of the european union, but also to take into account the situation of ukraine because the commission position is also that nord stream 2 will have a negative impact on the existing transit routes to the european union, including via ukraine. as a result, the mandate also raises the issue of the possible impact of the pipeline on gas transit via ukraine and on european union security of supply, and how such impact will be mitigated. because we consider ukraine a stable and reliable transit route and we will continue our support to ensure that ukraine remains an important transit route, including after 2020. you can be sure that the commission is waiting for the council to decide on the mandate. any support from the members of parliament within national governments in order to have support will be very welcome and we hope that the council decides soon and the commission comes to negotiations. in the meanwhile, we would propose a legislative reform to make very clear that our gas supply regulations are applied in cases like nord stream 2 in the future.
in writing. the decision to build the nord stream 2 gas pipeline in 2005 was a significant breach of the eu's solidarity principle. the construction of additional pipelines poses a threat to the energy security of the countries of the region, and above all to ukraine, which has been attacked by the russian federation, increasing its vulnerability to russian energy blackmail. in its positions and actions, the european commission has repeatedly sided more with the russian energy giant gazprom than with its european partners. the decision-making process was accompanied by a whole series of lobbying activities. recent publications indicate that they were also illegal. danish investigative journalist jens høvsgaard alleges that the kremlin and gazprom, led by russian president vladimir putin and former stasi and kgb agents, bribed and blackmailed western politicians and government officials in germany, sweden, denmark and finland. i suspect that similar measures have been and are being taken against officials in brussels. the president of the commission is responsible for ensuring the transparency of procedures and the independence of the decision-making process. i'm afraid i have some serious concerns about that. i would remind you that at every stage, starting with the ep vote in 2005, i have opposed these investments, pointing out the risks involved.
in writing. as the plenary debate clearly showed, nord stream 2 is unanimously criticised by most of the political groups in the european parliament as a purely political project, dividing europe and threatening the security of the union. i also think that the implementation of this project could be seen as hypocritical. on the one hand, we impose sanctions on russia in response to the illegal annexation of crimea and the deliberate destabilisation of ukraine, but on the other hand, this does not prevent us from promoting a project that not only undermines eu solidarity and is clearly contrary to the interests and security of many member states, but also gives russia a great business potential and a chance to develop its gas market. i therefore call on member states to give a strong mandate to negotiate with russia to bring nord stream 2 under the third energy package. i welcome the announcement by commissioner cañete and president juncker that the european commission will propose a new legal regime for pipelines such as nord stream 2 to ensure that they automatically fall under the rules of the third package.
in writing. there is a huge disparity between russia's technical export capacity and the amount of gas imported by european countries. even in the record year 2016, the russian transmission infrastructure was only 67 percent used, leaving about 100 billion cubic meters of stock. this shows that the current capacity of all corridors is far in excess of the demand in europe. in this context, it is clear that the construction of nord stream 2 is not a market justification but a geopolitical project of vladimir putin. the nord stream 2 project is not consistent with the eu's energy policy in the natural gas sector, which emphasises the development of well-functioning gas markets through increased diversification of supply sources and infrastructure integration. it might be worth repeating that, contrary to what some people are doing, diversification means more gas from different directions, not more pipelines from russia.
mr. chairman, please! the colleagues have already presented the difficult situation in cambodia, the problems of the opposition and its leader kema sokha. i believe that the arrests and violence are also due to the increase in support for opposition groups in the last local elections in june. new amendments to the law on political parties and associations show the forms of violation of basic human rights. i would also like to mention, as my colleague has already mentioned, another element, very important for the rural population, from the perspective of the cultivation of sugar cane on large plantations by large companies with the permission of the government, which is the usual land grabbing and taking over of land traditionally used by these residents without providing adequate compensation, which results in the loss of the main source of livelihood of this poorest part of the society. the cambodian government must therefore respect human rights, including the constitutional principles of pluralism, freedom of expression and association, which are a fundamental condition of the cambodia-eu cooperation agreement.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate tonight. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on gabon: repression of the opposition (2017/2830 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! the political situation in gabon, in particular the doubts about the correctness of the recent presidential elections and the unconstitutional postponement of the parliamentary elections, must be a matter of concern to the international community. more worrying are reports of violations of human rights and freedom of expression, and of repression against the opposition, including torture and murder. the european union cannot tolerate a lack of transparency in the electoral process, and i believe that those responsible for violence and electoral fraud must be held accountable. i would like to recall that the government of gabon, as one of the signatories to the cotonou agreement, has committed itself to respecting the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and i therefore believe that it is necessary to use both political and economic instruments against gabon to enforce these commitments and to ensure that violence and repression against the opposition cease.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate tonight.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on laos, in particular the cases of somphone phimmasone, lod thammavong and soukane chaithad (2017/2831 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate tonight. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for resolutions on myanmar, in particular the situation of the rohingya community (2017/2838 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate tonight. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! erasmus+ is certainly not a perfect programme, but that does not mean that it should be denied. on the contrary, it needs to be strengthened financially and the qualification procedure must also be improved. i would like to take this opportunity to address a special appeal to young people in the eastern partnership area. it is there that the purpose of this programme is most perfect, best and most effective and therefore i believe that the mechanism for recruiting students from this area needs to be improved significantly. i'm very pleased that several of the motions that were either damaging or negating this program have been rejected. fortunately, these amendments were passed during the discussion, debate and vote, which strengthen the programme. i would also point out that this debate and this resolution raise questions about the future of the erasmus+ programme. and the question arose because of the imperfections of the financial guarantees, as well as the recruitment process of the students themselves. i am very pleased that we have been able to adopt this resolution today.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking you all for this major interpellation. forest fires are currently a major concern for the european union, and you know very well that the commission is ready to make every effort to ensure eu solidarity reaches all those people and all those areas that were hit by the dramatic forest fires of this summer and avoid such catastrophes happening again. eu solidarity is active at all stages – prevention, intervention and construction – and it is channelled through a broad range of instruments. first of all, the european solidarity fund. this fund can be mobilised to help with recovery from major and regional natural disasters. however, support is subject to two conditions – first, total direct damage should exceed a threshold which is specific for each member state or region, and second, national authorities have to submit an application within twelve weeks of the start of the disaster. without an application the commission may not take the initiative. among the many countries affected by forest fires during the summer, only one, namely portugal, has submitted so far an application for financial assistance, which is currently being assessed by the european commission. the second instrument that is available is the cohesion policy. the cohesion policy can support, among others, replacement of small and medium-sized enterprises’ productive capacity as well as public infrastructure and equipment. this is what we put in place, for example, for portugal in august, sent through a swift reallocation of funding within portuguese programmes with a total maximum budget of eur 45 million from the regional development fund. other eu response tools are also available to assist in fire emergencies. the european commission’s emergency response coordination centre monitors forest fires 24 hours per day using the european forest fire information system, and close coordination is maintained between these two bodies with the countries at high risk of forest fires. assistance may be provided by the eu civil protection mechanism – we mean fire fighting equipment and personnel. the copernicus emergency management service provides satellite maps for forest fire related emergencies to the european forest fire information system. the european union’s main arm to protect forests is the european agriculture rural development fund, yet not because of the means it devotes to fire fighting. experience shows that large-scale, catastrophic mega fires, if not intentional, are driven mainly by two factors. first, extreme weather conditions such as extended heatwaves, drought and strong winds, which are intensifying due to climate change. second, fire-proneness of forests due to natural resource mismanagement and unsustainable land-use decisions such as abandonment of sustainable forest management practices. these factors are largely regardless of how much we spend on firefighting means and preparedness. on the contrary, more investments are needed on forest fire prevention, on boosting the health and resilience of forest ecosystems. this is exactly what the european agricultural development fund promotes, through three measures: investments in preventive actions to reduce the consequences of natural disasters on agricultural areas; prevention and restoration of damage to forests from fires; and risk management tools. so thank you very much, and i am waiting for your debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to support the points and questions raised by the authors of the interpellation concerning the forest fires which have affected the union, and particularly the southern countries, causing deaths and enormous damage. the protection of forests is essential, and their beneficial impact on the environment or climate is inestimable, if not impossible to quantify. it is important to bear in mind that new forests will not be established in the eu for several decades. i am speaking on this subject also because there was a huge loss in poland, not because of the fires, but because of the storms that took place in the second decade of august, when almost eight million cubic metres of trees were felled. there are 40,000 hectares of forest destroyed in the southwest of my country, where several people have also died and several thousand buildings have been destroyed. the damage is usually superficial, but especially during fires, entire stands of trees are destroyed, huge natural losses are caused, valuable bird species, wildlife habitats and valuable plant species are destroyed. the community must therefore protect, support and show solidarity in protecting forests against fires and other disasters, and must also educate the public in this field. the european union solidarity fund needs to be mobilised and used flexibly to deal with the damage caused by fires, droughts and disasters.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating mr mato and the other rapporteurs on the very successful report, which clearly indicates the need to maintain the principle of equality between european fleets and those of third countries. i also support the strict transposition of iccat recommendations to create a level playing field for all operators. the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet be given a new fishing licence. i would also like to point out that we must be extremely cautious when fishing for bluefin tuna and for anglerfish in the mediterranean, which is a very overfished sea in the european union. the introduction of total allowable catches, or tacs, as well as other conservation measures, including the wise and prudent use of fishing gears for these species, must be respected by all parties to iccat. only joint action involving third countries will significantly protect these species from overfishing and contribute to the stability and sustainability of fisheries in the region.
madam president! first of all, i congratulate the rapporteur on this report, which tackles a very important topic concerning the presence of women in the labour market and the economic empowerment of women. and what we're really talking about here is incentives for women, and we should be talking about maybe not so much incentives, but about finally getting women off the hook, finally getting these visible and invisible barriers to the labor market off the table, no more pay gaps, no more glass ceiling, no more pension gaps, and a whole bunch of other things that women have to deal with when they enter the labor market. today in the european union we have a labour market. the number of workers is shrinking and will continue to shrink, with an estimated 27 million in the next dozen years. this gap could be smaller if women could work, but there are no nurseries, no kindergartens, no nursing homes in the numbers that they should be, and that's why these goals are converging, and that's why we should finally do something.
madam president! first of all, i would like to thank mrs jiménez-becerril barrio for her very good report. the worrying trend of shrinking space for civil society in developing countries is definitely a topic that needs to be highlighted and supported. the eu is the largest donor of development aid, through which values such as democracy, good governance and fundamental rights are promoted in partner countries. it is important that governments, political parties and administrations in developing countries, instead of restricting such organizations and persecuting human rights defenders, are able to cooperate effectively with them. it is therefore essential to promote initiatives for closer dialogue between the government and civil society organisations, local authorities and the private sector. i hope that the issue of the shrinking space for civil society will be brought into the mainstream of european union foreign policy.
madam president! as part of my one-minute speeches, i would like to protest against the proposed amendment to the european commission's directive which would force fathers to take four months of paternity leave without the possibility of transferring it to the other parent. mothers may be forced to return to work earlier after childbirth, which not only weakens the necessary bond between mother and child but also has irreversible psychophysical effects. according to psychologists, a child can tolerate being separated from his mother for only as many hours as he is old enough to be. the absence of the mother for eight hours of work in the first year of life will cause separation anxiety, physical disorders, illness and identity disorders, especially since from the sixth month of life the attachment and influence of the mother on the child increases, and until the second year the child unconsciously identifies with the mother. the father, on the other hand, plays an important role in the later period.
mr president, i speak as the chair of the committee on constitutional affairs, which in a year from now will be working, hopefully, on the consent procedure of this house. michel barnier said in his introductory remarks that 15 days and one negotiation round separate us from an important meeting of the european council that will debate and decide. that meeting will be a chance for the european leaders to take stock of the results so far and decide whether to expand the negotiating mandate, allowing for parallel discussions on the future agreement and the transition. but maintaining the new dynamics of the negotiation process depends heavily on whether the uk prime minister’s speech in florence will be translated into new negotiation positions and concrete proposals as soon as possible. accelerating the pace of meetings has to go hand in hand with progress on content. on content, i will make four points. we need reassurance on how the direct effect will work in practice. we need reassurance that bureaucratic burdens will be avoided. we also need to avoid the risks of incoherence and distortion in the interpretation of the withdrawal agreement, and we need to see respect for the fact that the situation of northern ireland is unique and deserves to be treated in a unique way. we all want to reach that deep and special partnership that ms may has called for and which is in the interest of all european citizens, but lack of progress now would delay the whole process of the negotiations. that is why achieving confidence now, and a shared understanding on the essential issues of the first phase, is of such importance.
mr. chairman, please! the speech by prime minister theresa may in florence has raised hopes that negotiations with the uk will finally move forward, as the citizens of the union expect. the proposal for a transitional period and the declaration that the uk government will continue to contribute to the common budget for the period 2014-2020 should be welcomed. it seems that the issue of protecting the rights of eu citizens living in the uk will also be resolved. now the union should step forward. perhaps president juncker should make a similar speech to the prime minister. and we in poland have been more concerned about the rights of our workers in france lately than the rights of poles in the uk. the paradox of these negotiations is that the british are talking about free markets and the movement of people and their rights at a time when the eu is increasingly seeking protectionism within the eu under the banner of combating social dumping.
madam president! a year ago, it seemed that the british referendum and its aftermath would be an existential problem for the entire european union. followers in other countries have come forward. today we can already see that the shock of brexit has become a kind of shock therapy for europe, because it has renewed the european union's faith in its own future. but it reveals the full extent of the problem that the people of the british isles have created for themselves. we have a lot of sympathy, but our primary concern is to protect the interests of ireland, our citizens in the islands, and to design the financials in the face of the uncertainty that brexit creates. therefore, the strategy pursued by michel barnier in line with the council guidelines and the parliament resolution makes sense first progress on these issues and then talks on the future model of the relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. but there's no such premise, there's chaos on the other side. i'd like to express my personal disappointment. i have a right to express this personal disappointment because in communist poland, underground, at some personal risk, i pointed to britain as the model of mature democracy. mature, which is to say, one that is resistant to demagoguery and populism. unfortunately, the uk referendum was a fake news event, and hence my disappointment, but i am also glad that the european union as a whole has regained faith in its own future.
madam president! i must say that i fully share what i heard and the way in which i heard it - said in that calm tone - from mr michel barnier, and also from guy verhofstadt. i'll admit, i haven't heard guy verhofstadt without theatrical gestures in a long time, and that's a very good one. two principles that you have mentioned and that particularly convince me: firstly, a former member state of the european union is not a member state of the european union, and secondly, people are the most important thing, which means that we want to treat the citizens of the united kingdom in the european union very kindly and normally, provided there is reciprocity, and this approach also suits me very well. i would also like to draw your attention to the case of university students. well, the current rules state that after brexit, we won't automatically recognise diplomas. i urge that we recognise british diplomas and that university diplomas, degrees and titles obtained in the european union be recognised in the uk.
madam president! mr barnier said that, apart from the financial arrangements, the irish question was really the rights of a few million citizens, and that these were the main aspects of the negotiations. we're about to pass a resolution that some say is a tough resolution, but the more information reaches these many millions of citizens, the more questions there are about their future. and that includes my fellow poles, many of whom live in the uk. it is a question of residence rights, the conditions that he must meet, the question of social rights, including pension rights, the rules that apply to the movement of people after brexit - these questions are related to the concern whether there will be equal treatment of citizens, many also ask about the issue of family reunification. prime minister may's recent statements are promising. on the other hand, the united kingdom is an important partner and we want to see it as such after brexit, because it is a partner in nato, a neighbour in europe, so mutual respect is also necessary in these negotiations, but the content of these negotiations is also important, the final result is beneficial for the european union.
in writing. the next round of negotiations between the european commission and the united kingdom ended on 28 september. although the talks were renewed and constructive following the speech by uk prime minister theresa may in florence, progress was still not considered sufficient. the uk has agreed to give 'direct effect' to the withdrawal agreement. this gives more certainty and stability to eu citizens in the uk. however, there are still differences in the jurisdiction of the european court of justice. it is also necessary to present a clear position of the united kingdom on the full implementation of its financial commitments to the eu. the issue of recognition of qualifications also remains unresolved. and this is particularly important because it affects thousands of young people, both uk and eu citizens. students who start their studies before the uk's withdrawal date need to be confident that they can complete their course on the same terms as they started it and that they will continue to have access to student loans and other forms of financial support on the same terms. in addition, students who start their studies need to be confident that their qualifications will be recognised in both the eu and the uk and that they will retain the same rights of residence in the uk as they had before the date of departure.
madam president! i voted against it, and i wanted to point out that the british people left the european union because they didn't like the laws that govern the european union. so if we insist that certain people who are under british rule should be subject to european law, the effect will be the exact opposite. i remind you that even a criminal like lenin lived peacefully in london, although no one - not russia, not europe, not germany, not france - demanded that britain treat him fairly. so i think we should leave this to the british, because any interference will cause the british to resent the citizens of the european union.
madam president! i'd like to join my colleagues in thanking you for your cooperation. citizens of the european union settle in another member state, taking advantage of the opportunities created for them by community law and assuming that they will be able to enjoy this right throughout their lives. therefore, any negotiations on the post-brexit status of union citizens in the united kingdom or british citizens in the union should be based on that law. therefore, no change in their legal or factual situation can be agreed. the new proposals from london are not in line with this law, allowing restrictions on, for example, the right to family reunification, and also introducing a new, not quite defined, category of settled person. the negotiating progress made in this area is therefore far from sufficient. the protracted talks are adding to the uncertainty among ordinary people, with neither eu citizens living in the uk nor britons in the eu knowing what the future holds for them. this uncertainty prevents them from safeguarding their rights and interests, and negotiators should therefore reach an agreement as soon as possible that is within the treaty rules and guarantees respect for acquired rights. we can't agree to any limitations on them. for these reasons, i have supported the european parliament's resolution with all my responsibility today.
madam president! i voted against the document not because i am against equal pay for equal work or against improving the material status of women or raising pension benefits, which can be achieved without necessarily achieving the barcelona goals. i voted against because the writings and trends presented are in fact directed against femininity and women, reducing their role to one of the elements driving the economic machine and gdp. the proposals, besides weakening family ties, discrediting motherhood, objectify women. in addition, there are many other controversial provisions, such as the designation of reproductive health instead of the dignity-respecting designation of procreation. the best care for a child comes from a loving mother, and no one or nothing can take her place. i remember well from the communist era, when, regardless of the psychophysical differences between men and women and their special vocation, polish women were encouraged to get on tractors.
madam president! today in poland we celebrate the anniversary of the so-called black protest, that is, the protest of women against government proposals that infringed on their autonomy and independence. that's why there's an anniversary protest today. i take this opportunity to express my solidarity with all the organizers and their ideas and aspirations, but to return to the document we are talking about, it presents many aspects of inequality. i would like to point out one, which i think is very crucial, because of the lack of time, and that is that in many countries, including poland, there is a difference in the age at which people retire. it's a thing that absolutely discriminates against women, causes them to receive less pension benefits in retirement, and is falsely presented as a privilege. this is a scandal.
madam president! the report on women's economic empowerment, contrary to its stated intentions, contained tools for the social degradation of women. the dependence of women's economic position on the so-called right to abortion however it is called reproductive or sexual rights takes for granted that women are forced by employers to choose between motherhood and work. of course, this approach is part of the cultural pressure on women to compete with men by giving up part or all of their motherhood. treating motherhood and women's role in the family as indifferent or unnecessary socially private options is the ultimate harm that liberal consumerism inflicts on women, children, families and society as a whole.
madam president! we are concerned by the reports that in recent years there has been no substantial progress in the fight against discrimination against women. we should ask ourselves whether the instruments we are using are really effective if women's wages are still on average 16% lower than those of men and pensions and pensions received by women are on average 40% lower than those of men. the strong discrimination during the period of professional activity leads to a real and profound impoverishment of women in old age. i agree with the rapporteur that the digital revolution underway can be an opportunity to empower women in the economy. however, action is needed to encourage women not only to pursue formal education in this area but, above all, to re-qualify and upgrade their skills. we should also develop instruments to support women entrepreneurs in the digital economy. we have a unique opportunity to empower women economically. that is why i supported the report in the final vote, especially in solidarity with the polish women who are fighting in the polish streets today for their fundamental rights.
madam president! cybersecurity is growing into the number one problem today. it's about national security, state security, economic security, but it's also slowly moving into political security. we have a growing suspicion that some countries are interfering in the democratic electoral processes of other countries. this is absolutely unacceptable, and therefore the family of democratic nations of the world should confront all these threats, especially since the technologies we are talking about are the technologies of the future. action is therefore needed to establish international law on cybersecurity and international cooperation to effectively implement the new legal standards.
madam president! the association of southeast asian nations (asean) region is one of the most dynamic regions in the world today, also in something that is very important, which is new technologies. the region is also very important to us in terms of maintaining global security, and so the european union's relations with asean should be of key importance to us, just as important as our relations with other asian countries such as china, india and japan. but we must remember that within these relations we should develop not only economic cooperation but also activities in favour of democracy and human rights, climate and environmental protection. these should be issues as important as economic issues.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. since the annexation of crimea, the choice of the western option or the russian option by the moldovan society and possibly the moldovan authorities means the choice of completely different security principles, completely different values, completely different principles of democracy. i am glad that both nato and the european union are aware of this. moldova has become a priority project for cooperation between the two organisations in the field of cybersecurity. i commend the security policy of the moldovan government. i have been monitoring the progress in this area and i find it interesting, interesting and commendable. unfortunately, i also see some worrying signs in this country, such as the continued monopoly of the media and the influence of the oligarchs.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! the eu has transferred eur 335 million to moldova over three years. that sounds like a lot of money. of course, we demand that this money be put to good use. on the other hand, in moldova, there is a geopolitical match going on right now between us, the west, the union, and russia. it's also important to take into account that there is a pro-european government and a pro-russian president. it takes a special diplomacy and wisdom to support the pro-european forces in this country and to show also to the people of this country to what extent this country can become part of the russian sphere of influence with all its geopolitical consequences. i am in favour of the eu giving as much aid as possible and moving moldova towards europe, but only towards political europe, because moldova is in europe.
mr. chairman, please! there is no reason for the european union to abandon its strategy of explicit support for moldova's liberal and european aspirations. one of the ukip mps was here talking about the abuse of the european union, about neo-colonialism, about political neutrality. well, there is no political neutrality in this world: moldova will either be part of the european family or it will be in the russian sphere of influence. but aid cannot be naive and unconditional, so this realistic voice is most worthy of support. we must expect the fight against corruption, the healing of the judiciary, genuine political freedom and media pluralism, not only for the sake of european expectations but also for the sake of moldova's interests. moldova, which cannot heal itself, will be doomed to remain in the russian sphere of influence. if she recovers, she will share a common fate with the nations of europe. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. most certainly, i mean, these kinds of expectations should be considered. even more consideration should be given to the expectations of genuine freedom, competitiveness and freedom of choice, and these are the kinds of expectations that deserve support. what is important is the strategic direction - whether we support moldova's european aspirations with goodwill or not. i'm all for the former.
mr. chairman, please! we would like to see a completely different debate on moldova just before the eastern partnership summit and this is less than a year after the entry into force of the association agreement with the free trade area. and we know that the visa movement is good, but it's hard not to bring it up because contracts are mutual obligations. when we have problems with fighting corruption, when we have problems with appropriating public funds, when we have problems with the judiciary, these are also signals of change when it comes to the democratic system in moldova itself. i would like to remind you that on 22 may the parliamentary association committee welcomed, among other things, the national action plan until 2019, which was adopted by moldova. it is now necessary to give it substance, particularly as regards the legislative procedure. the constant problem is, of course, transnistria, which has a huge impact on the internal situation in moldova, we cannot ignore this and this is perhaps one of the elements that justifies a little what is happening in moldova, but on the other hand it is difficult to accept other things. i think that the commissioner's statement that civil society should be supported is a good one, commissioner. it's always the case that when we try to put the state and its authorities back on their feet, we shouldn't punish civil society, and i think that's very important. i am also pleased to say that we welcome this joint declaration by the presidents of the parliaments of moldova, georgia and ukraine on the eastern partnership summit. this is also a good signal, coming from national parliaments.
mr. chairman, please! there was a heated debate this morning on the state of brexit negotiations. the united kingdom is leaving the european union. on the other hand, as commission president juncker triumphantly announced recently, the union is counting on other countries to join. moldova is also waiting in the eu lobby. the country signed a partnership and cooperation agreement with the european union 23 years ago. he signed a partnership agreement three years ago. however, it is still far from meeting the eu criteria. the european union is opposed to changes to the electoral law in moldova. he's calling for an effective fight against corruption, and he's also threatening the venice commission. in their pursuit of ideological standards, some seem to fail to see that moldova, a country of 3.5 million people, is one of the poorest countries in europe, and that russia is taking advantage of its internal problems. if we are blinded by the eu's rhetoric, we may soon find that this country will withdraw from the association agreement and find itself in a union, but a eurasian union.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about child marriage here today, but we should really be talking about child marriage: adult men, sometimes adult men with girls under 15. in european criminal codes, sexual intercourse between an adult and a child under the age of 15 is classified as paedophilia. given that in the countries where these marriages are taking place, they are socially accepted, because this is the custom, the tradition, and the fact that they also take place in europe, we are facing a huge legal and cultural conflict, and the victims of the lack of reaction and decision in this matter are girls and young women. in the face of these problems, the istanbul convention comes out, which clearly states that forced marriages and child marriages are a form of violence, and requires signatories to the convention to criminalize forced child marriages. the convention also states that violence cannot be justified by tradition or religion. where these values conflict, customs that are based on the idea of women's inferiority and that justify violence should be eradicated. that is what article 12 of the convention says, and today, when we talk about child marriage, it is worth recalling the message of the convention, because there are members in this chamber who are opposed to the convention and to the very wording of article 12. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. for example, in germany, there are many forced marriages of girls. this is a very serious problem. we hear about it all the time. but what does the istanbul convention have to do with it? and our country, and it's thanks to you that agnieszka has unfortunately ratified it. i was against it. but, you know very well that hungary, slovakia, the czech republic, lithuania, latvia - countries that have not ratified the istanbul convention - are not countries where this problem exists. many of these girls could have been saved if their families had not been under such pressure from their muslim environment.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. that's not a question, that's, as i understand it, a comment. what does the istanbul convention have to do with it? the istanbul convention is an international document, and for the signatory states of this document, the content of the convention becomes national law. even if there was uncertainty at the level of national law as to how to resolve conflicts of value in law, the convention resolves those conflicts.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. child marriage is one of the most shameful forms of sexual slavery, and it is carried out on girls as young as a few years old. unfortunately, as the migration crisis intensified, this pedophiliac practice spread throughout the european union. unfortunately, in this case, as in others, political correctness trumps the fundamental christian values that have shaped europe and which do not condone the shameful treatment of girls. let's be frank: these practices have their roots in the immigrant communities of the european union. that's what the statistics show. we can't afford to put ourselves on the back burner and turn a blind eye. so i would like to ask the commissioner: is the commission going to initiate a rule of law procedure against countries where these pedophilic practices are tolerated?
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask if sweden needs the istanbul convention to fight the scourge of forced marriage of girls.
in writing. the fact that there is a phenomenon in the public arena in the developing world, such as child marriage, shows that we are not moving forward, but we are going backwards, into the abyss of mental ignorance. underage girls and their offspring (of such marriages) pay the price for this mental disgust that leads people to marry off girls who have not reached or have barely reached puberty. it's a mental backsliding that has very serious consequences. a little girl can't handle the demands of married life, mentally or physically. so this is a crime that only the law can stop. because of the migration from the countries affected by the disaster and the large number of refugees, this problem also affects europe. the treaties require the eu to promote the rights of the child. so the question naturally arises: how is the commission dealing with this issue? i would also like to point out that i do not agree with concessions in favour of abortion (which is disguised as sexual and reproductive rights). my support for the resolution has nothing to do with those paragraphs, which i strongly oppose.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the paris agreement was a landmark document based on two key elements: flexible formulation of own commitments adapted to economic possibilities and the abandonment of the decarbonisation requirement. unfortunately, in today's resolution, this compromise is no longer seen as a necessary element in balancing the will to act with ambition against the real possibilities. the bonn conference and the katowice climate summit are a great opportunity to work out solutions that will allow the parties to the paris agreement to maintain the sense that we are moving together towards a common goal at a reasonable pace. the most important thing is to actually improve the comfort of our lives and those of future generations and not to stifle european industry. i hope the commissioner has the courtesy to listen to my speech.
mr president, the objective of the cop23 in bonn is to advance the talks on guidelines for the implementation of the paris agreement. we have good news from many countries, 166 countries have submitted their ratification documents, and the agreement is in our opinion a great success of the paris conference, especially because of these voluntary commitments of many countries. however, we are facing many challenges that are not necessarily reflected in the negotiations. the united states' position is important, we have already heard declarations about withdrawing from the agreement, remaining, renegotiating. it would be good for the entire agreement for the united states to stay in the agreement and to fulfill its provisions, and therefore the worst situation is this state of uncertainty. in many countries, as has been said here, decisions are being taken that are contrary to the paris agreement. but they are pleased with the greenhouse gas emissions data from the past year, which shows that global emissions have only increased slightly, which may indicate that we are somewhere near the peak of emissions, and that emissions will soon start to fall. as a parliament we will be taking part in the bonn conference, backed up by the mandate which parliament will adopt tomorrow in the form of a resolution. the five-year action plans and the periodic evaluations of progress in reducing emissions will also be an important element.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. there is no doubt that low-cost airlines have played a huge role in making flying an important and affordable means of transport in the european union. ryanair is today the clear leader in this segment, and it must be stressed that, in addition to the high profits, this position also entails responsibility. the current situation, and in particular the information chaos associated with the cancellation of thousands of flights, causes legitimate concern for passengers and represents a serious challenge for many local airports, for which the services provided by this airline are often crucial to maintain profitability. it is unacceptable for ryanair to avoid or not fully comply with its obligations in the event of a flight being cancelled, in particular to provide the passenger with an alternative connection. european regulations are clear here and the passenger must be sure that his rights are respected. it is up to you, commissioner, to enforce article 5 of the parliament and council regulation, which i hereby call upon and urge you to do. i expect member states and the commission to monitor the situation and take appropriate action to protect passenger rights.
mr. chairman, please! ten days ago, my flight was unexpectedly canceled, and i was only reimbursed 200 euros, because, as i was told, i was not entitled to more under some convention. if i have a problem, it's my problem. if a million people have problems, it's a million individual problems, not a social or political problem. i've always heard complaints about ryanair taking passengers on other airlines. if he wants to hand over tens of thousands of passengers to other airlines now in the winter, they should be happy. ryanair is entitled to cancel half of its flights. if ryanair is flying, you say it's banditry. if ryanair doesn't fly, then so does banditry. ryanair cancels flights and pays passengers the compensation required by law. i see no reason for any institution to interfere with the decisions of a private company. if i were ryanair, i would say to any such institution: kiss my forehead. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
mr. chairman, please! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's air transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the european union is not forced to take action to combat these technologies. commissioner, what is the company's liability? the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of compensation for the costs of the airport services agreement with ryanair. the employees of the company are very important. the question arises as to why so many pilots, with relatively good pay, have given up their jobs, and how the numerous discussions in the european parliament on rest, driver hours, driver pay and social dumping are to be applied to ryanair. let's take a look at the ticket prices. how is it possible to buy a ticket for two and a half euros for a connection between two countries of the european union? wasn't there a social dumping going on here? i don't know why nobody's talking about it. how is it that many of the 13,000 employees are self-employed, do not have paid holidays and do not receive social benefits? i hope, mr president and commissioner, that the commission will hold the company accountable and ensure that it respects european law and consumer rights.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i feel like we're in a debate where someone is sitting on the sidelines and just laughing at us with disdain. i'm talking about the great, famous and highly unusual manager who owns and runs ryanair. firstly, we are reaping the fruits of impunity, secondly, we are reaping the fruits of disregard for the rules in force and, finally, we are reaping the fruits of the games played by the commission and the individual member states and of the simple attempt to have ryanair everywhere. it was selling an illusion, because a flight schedule that doesn't work is just selling an illusion, and that should be banned. so there is a dilemma, because i dare say that it is ryanair that is turning its back on passengers, and not passengers on ryanair, because i expect, unfortunately, for a small price, that they will be ready to come back. commissioner, is this just ryanair, or have you checked other low-cost airlines? are we going to have another ryanair?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first let me thank you for this very rich debate and i would like to assure you once more that the commission will be in close contact with all national authorities and enforcement bodies concerned, to make sure that european rules, including those on passengers' rights, are strictly respected. let me now address some of your more specific questions. first on social problems. i'm not here to really speculate on the root causes of ryanair's decision. at this stage, ryanair has confirmed that this is solely due to rostering issues and management failure. european rules are really crystal clear. it is the responsibility of the irish authorities to oversee ryanair as an irish airline and i'm confident that they are closely monitoring that ryanair respects all its obligations. if they discover wrongdoing, i'm also confident that they will act accordingly. on communication with stakeholders – information campaigns have been present since 2010 including videos, brochures, leaflets and so on. interactive content is present on your europe. coordination with naps ensuring airlines provide info, check-in online and at the airports is also ensured and present, and there are also more mobile applications that the customers can download. obviously, this still is not enough. i issue a special statement before every holiday, summer and christmas, and we can still look to see if anything else can be done so that people learn about their rights. what were we doing on social conditions? there were several questions regarding that. there are concerns regarding the development of social conditions of mobile workers in aviation and i am very committed to moving forward on the social dimension of aviation and it will be the focus of my portfolio and an aviation strategy next year. as far as state aid is concerned, the rules are the same for all airlines. my services will soon launch also a study on certain employment and social aspects including bogus employment and alleged pay-to-fly schemes for pilots. the purpose is to understand better the facts on the ground and how they relate to existing legal obligations and eu policy for the future. our work will take into account the case-law of the eu court of justice, including the recent one on the home base of air crews and the determination of the place of work. the next question was related to intervening and sanctioning ryanair, and, here, let me say the following. member states have designed national enforcement body called naps, which are responsible for the enforcement of eu air passengers' rights. the sanctions for infringements of this regulation are laid down by member states. for the time being, there is no reason to initiate any infringement procedures against ireland and, as i said, i’m confident that they will do the work that they have to do. and last but not least, eu safety rules – eu rules are the same for legacy and low-cost carriers. the eu has the highest aviation safety standards in the world and i'm also confident all national authorities follow this closely, including ireland. so let the system do the job. president and honourable members, the single aviation market has propelled european mobility forward, bringing europeans closer together and providing a solid foundation for more jobs and economic growth. successful reforms played a key role here and the commission along with national authorities has ensured and will ensure that these common rules are respected by all players, big or small. it is thanks to the eu that all passengers have a full set of rights when flying. this very unfortunate event has only further cemented the importance of these rules and the need for their full implementation, and it is in this spirit that i'm inviting you to see the challenge in front of us, as well. a challenge that we are actively addressing to the benefit of passengers. i can only hope that we can unblock the new proposal on passengers' rights in the council and get it up and operational as an important tool for even stronger enforcement of passengers' rights. and i really welcome your support, honourable members, on this point. this is exactly why we put forward guidelines last year to provide clarity and certainty, and yes i do travel low-cost, as a commissioner and as a private citizen.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, some speakers have referred to the revision of the current legislation, something the commission duly proposed in 2013. we all know what the state of affairs is with this piece of legislation, and we also all know why that is. the council is, however, aware of its obligation. similarly to the commissioner, i can only hope that this highly regrettable ryanair case will also give incentives to the member states concerned to reconsider their position, so that we can adopt this set of stronger new rules for the passengers’ sake – for our citizens’ sake. meanwhile the ryanair case must be resolved. it must be resolved soon and all affected passengers must be duly compensated. secondly, the national enforcement bodies must do all they can to assist passengers affected and to ensure that eu airlines abide by their legal obligations in the future. similarly, eu airlines should be more proactive in providing clarity to their customers regarding the rules on compensation and assistance. the airlines are legally obliged to make passengers aware of their rights and should act accordingly.
in writing. the situation that has occurred with the thousands of ryanair cancellations is clearly unacceptable and should never happen. but it also makes clear how much europeans need the european union in their daily lives. in the absence of eu legislation, passengers would be subject only to the goodwill of the airlines. however, it is thanks to the european union that the passengers affected are entitled to compensation and assistance, including accommodation and meals for the duration of their stay following the cancellation of their flight. however, compensation and reimbursement are due to passengers on the basis of a proactive application to the airlines, and i therefore believe that ryanair should carry out a broad information campaign and encourage passengers to assert their rights.
in writing. for 20 years, the european union has been trying to defend the rights of airline passengers. however, it is clear that the european rules are still insufficient and imprecise, leaving a wide margin of interpretation for carriers. passengers are getting less and less protected, against our better judgment. recent events and the sudden, massive cancellation of thousands of flights by the irish carrier ryanair clearly show that passengers are still exposed to unpredictable behaviour and arbitrary decisions by airlines. the lack of rational planning and effective management not only reduces the credibility of carriers and damages their reputations, but above all reduces public trust in transport. ryanair frequently failed to provide advance notice of cancelled flights. thousands of passengers without the right to compensation, limited options for rebooking on another carrier and airlines evading liability are the picture of passenger aviation today. in view of the situation, the union must immediately increase the liability of carriers and strengthen the obligation to pay compensation in the event of flight cancellation. i also believe that in the event of a flight cancellation by a low-cost airline, there should also be an obligation to rebook tickets for flights by traditional carriers without setting price limits in order to prevent airlines from circumventing their obligations.
in writing. passengers are still disadvantaged compared to airlines, despite having specific rights. it is very common for airlines not to inform passengers of their rights in the event of a flight disruption (delay, cancellation), even though the air passenger rights regulation requires them to do so. in the last week alone, irish carrier raynair announced that it had cancelled more than 2,000 flights to various european cities by the end of october. eu regulations say that if a flight is cancelled, the passenger has the right to reimbursement, change of travel plan or return flight, as well as the right to assistance and compensation. eu airlines must comply with european rules! we expect ryanair to respect european rules on passenger rights. community action in the field of air transport should aim at ensuring a high level of protection for passengers. in addition, attention should be paid to the general requirements of consumer protection. further steps are needed to ensure that airlines consistently comply with the rules and that member states more effectively enforce compliance. there is a need for further work in a number of areas, such as: improving enforcement, interpreting unclear aspects of the regulation, distinguishing between delays and cancellations (as passengers have different rights depending on the circumstances) and increasing the role of national enforcement bodies in overseeing the application of the common rules.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: (though it's a pity commissioner bulc isn't with us today, because i have some warm words for her, which is rare.) the tragic event of the costa concordia disaster provided an impetus to address the inaccuracies and differences in interpretation of the safety rules on board passenger ships, which serve nearly 400 million people every year. the commission's efforts to clarify a number of provisions, particularly those relating to the design of passenger ships, should therefore be welcomed. the new legal framework for accelerating the digitisation of ticketing and passenger registration is to be commended. the rapid access to travellers' personal data is of the utmost importance for security reasons, including during rescue operations. the flexibility of the proposed solutions, which will introduce reasonable transitional periods and substantial exemptions, for example for passenger ships up to 24 metres in length, should also be appreciated. i strongly support the adoption of this package and hope that it will bring tangible results quickly.
mr. chairman, please! the costa concordia disaster was the result of a serious error on the part of the captain of the ship, and not of faulty regulations on the safety of passenger ships, as some people have tried to suggest here. the legal changes proposed by the european parliament and the council do not therefore have to revolutionize the law. fortunately, the new directives are not intended to create new legal rules, but to streamline and simplify them. this seems to offer the opportunity to maintain the highest possible level of security while reducing red tape. the legal provisions must be clear and guarantee the highest possible quality of shipbuilding materials, high quality of navigation and professionalism of the crew. if we meet these conditions, we have a chance of safe passage on the ships.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is highly probable that the council will start with everyone congratulating chancellor merkel on her electoral victory. indeed, ms merkel should be congratulated. firstly, because she won for the fourth time, which is remarkable; secondly, because she won after having made the worst political decision of her life: opening the european borders without bothering to consult anyone. so much for solidarity, by the way. yet, while ms merkel’s victory was a success, it should also be viewed in equal measure as a wake-up call for europe. after all, the two main parties scored the worst results for years, something that only months ago happened in the french elections too. for many years, germany epitomised what political science calls ‘consensual politics’. we had a sample of it a while ago in what mr weber said, to put it crudely, a sort of united front in which everyone tends to speak with one voice. but if in a country like this – and germany is just such an example, because of its remarkable political culture – we see some cracks in the hitherto monolithic structure, perhaps we are witnessing the beginning of some kind of pluralism underway in the western part of the european union. as for me – and on this point i believe i differ from most of you – i believe it is a good thing and long overdue, considering the stifling atmosphere of european politics, the absence of any serious debate, and the routine bullying of anyone who dares to voice a different opinion. the council will take up for the nth time the problem of immigration – perhaps the most misrepresented, mystified, lied about, contaminated to the core by political correctness, problem of recent decades. the good thing is that the infamous mandatory relocation scheme is now history. it is dead. it is dead and gone. it is an ex—relocation scheme. but from the very beginning this was a bad idea. this was a stillborn idea, and whatever progress we have achieved in controlling immigration – and we have made some progress – this scheme had nothing to do with it whatsoever. will this idea disappear? i am not sure. experience has taught us that in the european union bad ideas die hard. there has been a lot of talk about the new european asylum policy, and it is a good thing that we should be working on it and making it better and better. president macron mentioned it in his speech too, but president macron’s speech was not really the exposition of a strategy as a lot of us expected it to be. it was more – i apologise for the comparison – like a pep talk, but beautifully delivered as always. so whatever shape this asylum policy – and everything that surrounds it that is related to immigration – will take, it should not repeat the errors of the past. the asylum policy on immigration is not a matter for a majority to decide. there has to be a consensus of all member states. otherwise, we will be back in the situation where the big guys do what they want, they can get away with anything and they order the others are not so strong to obey. that has to be over. demographic policy is too subtle and too complex a problem to be imposed by the european political and ideological bulldozers. of course, anything is possible so it can be predicted that remarks like mine will be ignored and the eu will sink more deeply into the sea of troubles, because we are already quite deep in the sea of troubles. there should be some hard thinking rather than going in the same direction with the same remedy – whatever happens, more of the same. that is not a solution. i have serious doubts if the coming council will start rethinking, but i really hope they do. i do hope against hope. (applause from the ecr group)
mr. chairman, please! the agenda for the next council is diverse. it is difficult to assess this in a minute or two, but it is easy to see that the council will address both the greatest challenge of our time, migration, and the greatest opportunity, the global digital single market. migration is very divisive, it creates tension, it creates controversy. the digital single market is unquestionable, uncontroversial. of course, all simplifications are misleading, because while the digital revolution is inevitable, the different levels of development of the member states can create or deepen a multi-speed union in the economic sense. and migration, of course, is divisive and creates tensions, but when we talk about relocation systems, it's a sad thing for me, from the generation of solidarity, from a country of millions of refugees and migrants, to see the behavior of some governments on this issue. but if we look at the agenda of the next council, we see no major controversies or issues of contention, but rather common issues, the elements that will be discussed at the next council: stopping the routes of illegal immigration, additional tools to help the most vulnerable countries, cooperation with international organizations, cooperation with the countries of origin of immigrants or refugees and countries of transit, and finally, reform of the asylum system. these are the common objectives of europe, and this in an area where the greatest fears are born, where we need security in europe most today, and where the tools of the individual countries are proving to be insufficient. we must seek a european response, and that is where the dispute between the european factions and european populism and xenophobia will be resolved. so we should wish this part of the agenda of the next council well.
madam president! i have always spoken out against bureaucracy and i am - as i have repeatedly shown - in favour of reducing it, which is why i have adopted this resolution with great satisfaction. i'm glad that the number of different potential interferences is being limited to a smaller number of actors. i am also pleased that president juncker has announced that the european parliament will devote more and more of its time to the important things, the key things, and will give up on detailed regulations. this evidence today is, in my opinion, excellent to support the declaration of the whole of parliament.
madam president! citizens' safety or the safety of their personal data - that was the beginning of the dispute, which i remember, at the time of passenger control, and it was about airline flights. today we have the same dilemma - very well solved - with the passengers of ships. i must say that i do not see any contradiction between these two elements: the security of personal data and the security of passengers must be considered at the same time. these two elements can be simplified, they can be combined, and this resolution is the best proof of that.
madam president! recent reports by the who and the european environment agency have confirmed the harmful effects of chemicals used in the production of food, cosmetics, packaging and other plastic products on humans and the environment, based on current research. hormonal disorders cause fertility problems and many other civilization diseases such as birth defects, cancer, diabetes, neurological diseases, which have been debated in parliament since at least 2009. that's why i abstained, hoping to make progress. the enlightening debate showed, on the one hand, a different attitude towards the law in force, but above all a conflict between concern for human health and the environment and concern for the competitiveness of european agriculture on the world market. despite the large number of products, including biopesticides, there is a lack of adequate protection because producers of these products are concentrating on the most profitable large-scale crops.
madam president! forced child marriages, mostly of girls, often sent abroad, is a side effect of mass islamic immigration. the more mass immigration, the greater the effect, because the social integration of these families would be easier if they did not live in such a non-european environment. and using this pathological practice to push for the istanbul convention is perhaps the most curious example of left-liberal populism that we often witness. i would like to point out in this context that countries that oppose the istanbul convention - catholic countries such as croatia and slovakia - are not familiar with this dramatic practice. the only country where it's present that has taken concrete action to oppose this, has opened an office, is the united kingdom, and it also hasn't ratified the istanbul convention, so really think about that.
madam president! i am of course in favour of the abolition of child marriage in the draft resolution, which is particularly relevant to immigrant communities and has long been regarded, at least in our christian, european culture, as a crime and a crime, and is also a matter of international law. however, child marriage is not only common in european immigrant communities, but also in asia, africa and throughout latin america, and requires international action. sexual violence, forced marriage, pose serious risks to mental and physical health, to education, to sexual exploitation and violence, and even to many diseases and deaths. while child protection and the fight against forced marriage should be a priority, the controversial provisions on the financing of abortion and the use of girls' drama to introduce no less harmful and offensive sexualization cannot be tolerated.
madam president! forced marriage of girls under the age of 18 is an abomination, it is pedophilia in its purest form. what is shocking to me is that such marriages also occur in many countries of the european union. the countries that are particularly outspoken about the istanbul convention, which is supposed to protect against violence, are particularly noteworthy. and in these countries, too, such marriages are taking place, especially in sharia-controlled areas. it is puzzling how the european union can teach the world how to live, but cannot clean up its own house. it is in the context of the growing migration crisis that this pathological, criminal, bestial behaviour is unfortunately spreading. i want to say with all responsibility that the european commission, its leaders, should take radical action and initiate all procedures against the member states of the european union where this pathology is present.
madam president! deforestation and degradation of forests, not just tropical forests, is responsible for 20 percent of the climate problems associated with greenhouse gas emissions. this is what the resolution is about, but it does not draw attention to the weakness of the mechanisms, the weakness of the various instruments to counteract this, also in europe. it seems to me that the attention paid to the increasing rate of urbanisation in europe, the allocation of many green areas or areas intended for green areas to new very densely built-up areas is a european problem and a serious problem. i would like to draw attention to this in bonn, when we have the next climate summit, to show good practices, to try to increase the impact, so that the limitations of parks, forests, gardens in our area of responsibility, the european responsibility, can be reduced.
madam president! the most important task for climate negotiators is to finalise the implementation package for the paris agreement. the bonn conference will be a key step towards the ultimate goal of adopting all decisions at cop24 in katowice. in bonn we must achieve a measurable objective, namely to develop the first draft decisions and a clear but flexible timetable for further work. poland supports the openness resulting from the paris agreement in the field of voluntary choice of methods for achieving its objectives, in order to maintain energy security and security of supply taking into account national conditions and based on the use of its own energy resources. the climate conferences in bonn and katowice will be the perfect moment to build on the momentum of 2015, and the adoption of the paris agreement implementation package will be the beginning of a better future for our planet.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the european commission repeatedly resorts to a moralistic language. we have just heard it talking about a union of values, but when we view the actions of the commission in the handling of this particular situation in catalonia, it looks more like a union of selective values. the double standards of the commission is something that leaps to the eye. all are equal, but some are more equal than others. everything depends on who is involved. let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, if it were another member state rather than spain, the consequences and the rhetoric from the commission would have been far harsher. i want to be clear: i do not believe the eu, or the european commission for that matter, strengthens the eu’s unity through infringement proceedings, or triggering the articles of the treaties or all the political point-scoring and suchlike. this polarises the debate and pushes member states and its voters further away from the eu. i urge the commission to practice the virtue of self-restraint, but consistently, not selectively. coming to catalonia, i do believe – a rather simple-minded observation but always worth repeating – that significant progress can be made through patient negotiations. whether and how soon an effective resolution is possible in catalonia, i do not know, and very few people, if anyone, in this chamber knows that. i wish to be honest with our spanish colleagues: riot police and violent scenes have not helped but shocked and, whatever your intentions, those scenes will continue to be a part of the image of your government for some time. let us admit it, the handling of the crisis was appalling. it was really appalling. what are the next steps to be taken? whether it involves constitutional reform, or the granting of a referendum or international mediation, the role of the commission is probably as an intermediary or a go-between. it is for the spanish government, spanish society and the catalonian people to decide for themselves. however, i do caution that the passions of those citizens in catalonia seeking a new settlement is unlikely to fade away by simply drowning out or ignoring the voices of dissent. to sum it up, the action of the riot police, the conspicuous silence or the aesopian language of the european commission will not make the problem disappear. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the intergovernmental treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union aims for its substance to be incorporated into the eu legal framework. this includes the fiscal compact. at present, a review of the implementation of the fiscal compact by member states is ongoing. in the context of the march 2017 ecofin council, member states had a first exchange of views on this based on a commission report. according to this report, all contracting member states have significantly adapted their national fiscal frameworks as a result of the fiscal compact requirements, but the council has not yet been in a position to address the issue of integrating the treaty on stability, coordination and governance into eu law. at the same time, a broader debate is currently taking place on the future governance of the emu, of which the fiscal policy coordination is a part. the presidency supports this debate and looks forward to the commission’s legislative package on the economic and monetary union deepening to be presented on 6 december. this, as we understand, will include a proposal for incorporating the treaty on stability, coordination and governance into eu law. going forward, the december inclusive euro area summit at the invitation of president tusk will be an important meeting, following which work on the emu governance reform will continue.
member of the commission. – mr president, as you know, the fiscal compact is a cornerstone of the intergovernmental treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union (tscg). it was signed in march 2012 by 25 member states. 22 out of those 25 contracting parties, namely the euro area countries bulgaria, denmark and romania, are bound by the fiscal compact. the chief objective of the fiscal compact is to strengthen budgetary discipline by operating as a complement to the stability and growth pact, the eu rule-based framework. in fact, the fiscal compact was initially proposed as an amendment to the treaty on the functioning of the european union and became part of the intergovernmental instrument only after having failed to garner unanimity in the european council. but this intergovernmental approach was understood from the onset as a way to move forward swiftly, as a response to the economic and financial crisis. the integration of the fiscal compact into union law was already foreseen at the time of its creation. this is clearly acknowledged in the text itself, specifically in the so-called repatriation clause. this clause states that the necessary steps will be taken with the aim of incorporating the substance of the tscg into the union legal framework within five years at most from its entry into force. this means 1 january 2018. the commission is not legally bound by the provisions of tscg. however, as a general principle, the commission is in favour of integrating intergovernmental arrangements such as tscg or the treaty establishing the european stability mechanism into union law. these intergovernmental solutions were conceived as stop-gaps during the crisis. their incorporation into union law would bring greater democratic accountability and legitimacy across the union. these are not just the views of the commission. the five presidents’ report argues that a well-functioning economic and monetary union would benefit from the integration into union law of all intergovernmental instruments created during the crisis. the commission’s reflection paper on deepening the economic and monetary union published this may recalls the agreement among the contracting parties to integrate the relevant provisions of the fiscal compact into eu law as one of the elements towards completion of the economic and monetary union by 2025. accordingly, president juncker’s letter of intent that accompanied his state of the union speech lists this step among the priority initiatives to be taken forward by the end of 2018. the integration into union law should take into account the flexibility built into the stability and growth pact. the commission is currently exploring the concrete options for this incorporation, with the aim of putting forward the proposal as part of the december package on the emu as announced by president juncker. i am looking forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the fiscal compact, as part of the treaty on stability, coordination and governance, was adopted in 2012 as a response to the lack of compliance by some member states with the provisions of the stability and growth pact. its objective was to strengthen budgetary discipline across the eu, with the introduction of more effective and stricter fiscal rules, including independent monitoring, the automatic corrective mechanism, transposition of a balanced budget rule into national legislation, and swifter sanctions for non-compliance. four years after the treaty entered into force, its implementation is only partly completed, and the results achieved are not very impressive. first, specific measures undertaken to comply with the fiscal compact vary from country to country, with different degrees of commitment and effectiveness. as a result, the budgetary situation in some member states has not improved despite a generally better macroeconomic environment and stronger growth. moreover, many member states do not generate progress towards their medium-term objectives at a sufficient speed. moreover, the overall fiscal framework in the eu has become even more complex making its implementation more difficult and less transparent. therefore, further steps are needed. while fully endorsing the fiscal compact, we need to enforce it more effectively. first, we need to make sure that its transposition into member states’ legislation leads to stronger national ownership and better compliance with the rules. second, we have to reduce the complexity of the whole eu fiscal framework in order to make it more transparent and to ensure better monitoring and equal treatment of all member states. and third, the revised and improved fiscal compact should be incorporated into the primary law of the eu to give it more legal clout and make it binding for all member states.
mr. chairman, please! i listen to this debate with great amusement, because the european union is imposing a lot of idiocy on the member states, a lot of completely idiotic laws, and when it tries to impose something sensible, i hear voices saying that it is a scandal, that democracy must bow before the fact that two times two equals four. we want to democratically pass a debt, but who's forcing us to? the european union, whose central bank prints fake money - which, by the way, also pays our salaries - prints this money without remembering, falsifying the currency, of course, the european union forces us to. ladies and gentlemen, let's be clear, throughout the 19th century, there was deflation, not inflation, and there was growth. there's no reason to worry that financial discipline will bring the economy to a standstill. it's not financial discipline, it's socialism that holds back economic growth. you want to keep socialism because the majority wants it. let's remember that there are more fools than wise men. as long as we have democracy, nothing sensible will be introduced.
mr president, as chair of the committee on constitutional affairs, i will not refer to the substance of this treaty but to the constitutional aspects of the treaty. one may recall that the european parliament has never been a proponent of resorting to an intergovernmental treaty governed by international law to strengthen the fiscal rules and compliance with fiscal discipline in the union, and this is why, in the phase leading to the adoption of this treaty in 2012 (which was exactly after the most famous, i think, of the british vetoes in december 2011), the european parliament has insisted on certain safeguards to be put in the treaty in order to guarantee conformity with the union treaties, the union law in general, and to make the international nature of the treaty temporary. it was the european parliament that insisted on this specific clause contained in article 16, which requires the substance of the treaty to be incorporated into the legal framework of the union before january 2018. the committee on constitutional affairs is concerned with the institutional aspects of the incorporation of the substance of the treaty in the eu framework, and we have been investigating this issue for quite some time. now we have it in the commission work programme; we have it in the letter of intent of jean-claude juncker, so we are expecting the proposal. there is in the treaty the substance that is not necessary or suitable to be incorporated, because the provisions relate to the intergovernmental nature of the treaty and have no substantial content or duplicate existing legislation but also concern elements that could be established within another framework. there is also substance that is already – or can be – incorporated through secondary legislation, but there is also substance that most likely would require treaty change, and this is about the key provisions of the treaty. so we are awaiting the december proposal with a sort of curiosity, especially in the context of the declaration of the president of the commission that no treaty change is on the union’s agenda.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. when, more than six years ago, the debate on the ratification of the fiscal treaty was taking place in my country, poland, we made our reservations clear. these included the transfer to brussels of the sovereign powers of national parliaments in budgetary matters, the push for a federalist european union and the use of the resources of the entire union and its institutions to achieve the objectives set within the incomplete union, i.e. the eurozone countries. today, we are disappointed to see that we have been taken in by a little. there is no positive impact on the growth of the eu economies or on the competitiveness of the euro area periphery. the imposition of integrated fiscal discipline does not eliminate the persistent current account deficits in greece, portugal, spain or italy, as mr zanni has said. instead, it widens the gap between them and the strongest economies in the euro area, germany in particular. i think that the commission should now present a detailed assessment of the impact of the stability treaty. how does it affect the economies of the various countries?
there was a question about the blue card. i wanted to make it clear that this is a debate on a so-called topical issue and we have neither a blue card formula nor a question-and-answer formula.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this was an important opportunity to exchange views on the integration of the fiscal compact into the union’s legal framework. the fiscal compact emerged five years ago as a stop-gap solution at a time of deep crisis. even though today our european economies are sailing in calmer seas, the basic tenet of the fiscal compact, of pursuing responsible fiscal policies, remains entirely valid. moreover, bringing the fiscal compact into the body of the eu fiscal framework will help enhance the resilience of the eu going forward, and it will do so in a way that ensures more accountability. but we also have to acknowledge that the incorporation is unlikely to be a routine operation. as we could also see from today’s discussions, there are serious political and legal implications at stake. this is why on the commission side we are looking carefully into possible options. once again, let me thank you for your persistent interest in this matter.
we'll read the debate, we'll read the minutes, and then we'll respond accordingly. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for 2016 (2017/2765 ((rsp)) i would like to extend a warm welcome to the president of the court of auditors, mr klaus-heiner lehn. i'd like to welcome commissioner oettinger to the station.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors for his annual report regarding the financial year 2016. you have done a great deal of work. according to your report, there has been improvement in the estimated level of error in payments from the eu budget. you have issued a qualified opinion on the 2016 payments rather than an adverse one. the overall level of error for eu spending was estimated at 3.1%. your report indicates that ‘entitlement payments’, made for meeting specific conditions, and accounting for about 49% of eu spending, show levels of error below 2%. these payments include direct aid to farmers, grants to students and researchers and staff costs. however, higher levels of error were found in ‘reimbursement payments’, made for economic, social and territorial cohesion. the estimated level of error here was 4.8%. for ‘natural resources, world development, the environment, climate action and fisheries’ it was 4.9%. action by the member states and the commission reduced the overall estimated level of error. however, sufficient information was available to further prevent, or detect and correct, many errors. if this information had all been used correctly the levels of error for economic social and territorial cohesion and for natural resources and ‘global europe’ would have been below the 2% threshold. we strongly encourage the commission to continue focusing on performance and simplification because simple rules reduce errors and increase the effectiveness of eu funding.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr lehne, who is here, for the quality of the post-inspection material and the analyses that have been made available to members. i would like to draw particular attention to two important special reports. the first concerns aid for young farmers and shows the enormous problems facing agriculture in europe. despite the huge expenditure from the eu budget, around a thousand farms, mostly family farms, disappear every day in the union. the countryside is ageing, only one in five farmers is under 45 years old, and european agriculture is on the verge of extinction. a profound change in the cap is needed to save them. the second is the report on the excessive deficit procedure. it shows that governments that teach others the rules - i'm thinking mainly of the french government - are themselves breaking the eu rules that the public deficit should not exceed 3% of gdp and the public debt should not exceed 60% of gdp. and the european commission tolerates this breach of the rules: although it should trigger sanctions, it does not. when you compare that with the determination with which the commission attacks my country, poland, for its perceived problems with the rule of law, you can see that it is applying double standards.
mr president, commissioner, president, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. the european court of auditors plays an important role in building citizens' trust in the european union, especially in recent years marked by negative, often dramatic events, which have been cynically exploited by populist politicians to build their own strength at the expense of the unity of the european union. and it is against this backdrop that the proper functioning of the european institutions and the sound economic management of citizens' money become particularly important. the results of the european court of auditors' report for 2016 are therefore to be welcomed. it is hoped that the creation of a chamber responsible for the control of eu funding and administration and a quality control committee will further improve the quality of control procedures. similarly, the establishment of chambers, each dealing with a specific subject area, will allow the process of specialisation to be deepened. it should also be noted that in 2016, all annual and special reports were delivered as planned and that as many as 80% of them were published on time. it is also important that in 2016, nearly 70% of the special reports were produced in less time than the previous target. the results of these organizational efforts will be available for preliminary evaluation next year.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. president lehne has said so characteristically that the goal is to tell the truth. we have not challenged any of the statements in this report, and so i understand that there is truth in this report. and the truth is that we are simply functioning better and better; the commission is functioning better and better, the court of auditors is functioning better and better, it is more efficient in assessing the commission's performance - that is the truth. of course mistakes happen and you could say that every mistake is one mistake too many, but not in this reality when we have the commission, when we have the member states, when we have life itself and when we also have a certain legacy that commissioner oettinger spoke about, namely the delays of 2014-2015 that have transpired in 2016. please note that the word 'abuse' does not appear in this report, but rather 'effect' and 'functioning' and, in the spirit of this report, we should not be talking about spending money, but rather about investing money, because here the court of auditors also shows us the rate of return or european added value. and i would like to warmly commend the words of warning that president lehne spoke about the future and also the dilemmas that commissioner oettinger spoke about how to avoid in the next two years the mistakes that happened in 2015-16.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president lehne, you are very well aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty for a long time. we have heard the many constructive and critical contributions, but also the words of praise, and we will evaluate them thoroughly in our services. i shall confine myself to a few points. firstly, we want to maintain our ambition to reduce the error rate even further. this means that a certain shift towards the theme of efficiency, success-relatedness, performance must not mean that the error rate is ignored. i hope that further progress can be made here. the new authority and prosecutor's office, the eusta, which mrs jourová will be representing here later, is an instrument which will certainly help us in this direction as a partner at european level in the fight against fraud, dishonesty and corruption in the european budget. secondly, i share the view that new financial instruments - guarantees, loans - are a complement to our leverage instruments and cannot replace cash. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. it has rightly been pointed out that not all member states have yet designated the authorities responsible for implementing the programme. we have written to these member states, we have made progress, but not yet 100%. we are working on this, but ultimately we in the european union depend on the constructive cooperation of the member states. we have no administration of our own, no infrastructure of our own in the regions. and that member states do not call up the structural funds that are actually theirs basically, the voter should notice how well his administrations are working and make this a benchmark for electoral decisions to be made. we can only advise the governments in the regions of the member states. we help where we can, with advice and action. but the application for funds, the implementation of projects and then the clearance of accounts for the amounts paid - all this is the responsibility of the member states, of the regions, who are our local contacts, but whom we cannot replace. we are building on the hope that the funds will flow more strongly in the next two years, and the timetable for the next mff - we talked about it yesterday - should be decisive. we should not wait, not to discuss it in the new parliament, not to discuss it until 2020. i would urge this parliament, together with the council and the commission, to use the time between the spring of next year and the european elections to have as much, if not all, of the next budget period decided and in the clear, so that implementation can be achieved by 1 january 2021 and no time is lost at the beginning of the next budgetary framework. simplification of procedures was criticised here. we are doing this with our 'omnibus' and the reform of the financial regulation. we are counting on parliament to produce a result in the coming weeks and then, as from next year, we can simplify the procedures for granting financial aid. otherwise, thank you for your cooperation. i look forward to the discussions which will now take place in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on this basis. we are ready to give any further answer, even in detail, to the members.
president of the court of auditors. the commission is not first of all, i'm glad to see you're feeling better and that you're back in your chair up there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that has been made clear in the course of the debate, but i want to say it again here: now, a limited audit judgment doesn't mean that everything is perfect, but it's a clear yes, but. the report also shows that we have looked at the big picture and that within that big picture we have seen significant changes and improvements. but if you look at the chapters and the details of what we have written in the report, you will see that there are a number of points where concrete improvements are needed and must be made. the error rate is just one factor in the overall picture. we have tried - and this is our task - not to decide or judge anything in the framework of a mathematical guillotine, but to make a so-called professional judgment, a qualitative assessment of the whole picture. that is why we have come to the conclusion we have come to. i also want to make it very clear that this is not our achievement. we as a court have only had to judge the facts and the picture. it is essentially the improvement of financial management by the commission. we have, of course, been indirectly involved in this. we, the court of auditors, but above all you, ladies and gentlemen, former colleagues in the european parliament. the constant insistence on this in their work - above all in the committee on budgetary control - and the cooperation between our institutions - this is what can really be said to have led to this improvement. i think we can be really proud of that, and that's a process we want to continue, which shows that our efforts have paid off. i think that has already been said in detail by mrs ayala sender, mrs dlabajová, mrs gräßle and mr liberadzki. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why did we assess the issue of financial instruments in the errors as we did? it's very simple. i want to say this again: the errors we have criticised in the past have of course been mentioned again in the current report for reasons of transparency - that is clear - but to include them again in the error calculation would not have been objectively justified for the very simple reason that they were atypical errors, errors whose cause is essentially to be found in another legal understanding which we do not share. in view of the above, it would simply not have been objectively justified to include it in the error rate. again, we have applied our professional judgment in this matter. i might also like to point out again what this estimated error rate actually means. i think that this is something that needs to be said clearly again, and especially here in the house. we're not saying that the error rate is exactly 3.1%. we use a mathematical statistical procedure where we use the results of a sample and at the end -- and you'll see this when you read the explanations in the report -- we say that the actual error rate is 95 percent likely to be somewhere between 2.2 and 4 percent. so that's what we've given, the 3.1%, just the most strikingly relative average. that's all i have to say. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i think that explanation is important. mr tarand has raised the question of the size of the organs. it is not our decision to make, but that of the primary legislator of the european union, the constitutional legislator, in the clear text of the convention, in which the european parliament can also take part, followed by the intergovernmental conference and, for the rest, the parliaments of the national member states. this is something which escapes our judgment as to what the constitutional legislator of the european union thinks on these questions. mr vaughan, mr staes and mr ashworth have raised the question of details, the causes of errors. in view of the limited time we have, i would not like to say anything about this now but leave it to the committee. i share the view expressed by mr takkula, mr salafranca and others. we need clearer, clearer, simpler rules and figures. we will endeavour in future, with the new approach we have, to provide more country-specific information and also more specific information on causes. a remark on mrs schmidt - she is sadly no longer here - which i must make. the fact that we have covered only a few pages of administration in this report is actually quite obvious. because with a 0.2 percent error rate, there's not much to tell. the report deals mainly with questions of legality. the questions raised by mrs schmidt are more concerned with questions of performance of economic efficiency. i would simply say that if, in the context of the discharge decision, we as the court of auditors are asked to carry out a detailed cost-effectiveness audit of the european parliament's administration, we will of course give it serious consideration. that's where this is. it is a question of economy and not of legality. the question that has been raised there is therefore answered. the keyword control density has been mentioned by two colleagues, mr zdechovský and mr novakov. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are well aware of the problem of excessive controls, because this can of course also be an obstacle to the implementation of european policies. so more quality than quantity in this matter, better and fewer controls than too many control levels, which is theoretically possible. that is a very specific, clear objective. mr buda has called for a uniform application, a europe-wide regulation. i think we are in complete agreement on that, there is no question. mr caputo has mentioned something which we have mentioned repeatedly: the lack of flexibility in the general budget. this is a subject which i hope will be addressed in the mff. i would like to conclude by thanking you once again for the interesting and valuable debate and, above all, for the encouraging words you have given us about our work. i shall be announcing this to my colleagues at the college meeting tomorrow and i am sure that it will be met with great approval and joy.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. in its 2016 report, the european court of auditors reports that there has been a gradual improvement in the estimated level of error in payments made from the eu budget. the auditors gave a qualified opinion on the 2016 payments, rather than a negative opinion as in previous years. the level of error in around half of the union expenditure audited in 2016 was below 2%. the auditors also issued an unqualified opinion on the reliability of the 2016 report as a whole. in 2016, union expenditure amounted to eur 136,4 billion. this represents about 1% of the gross national income of the member states and approximately 2% of the total public expenditure of the eu member states. this year's qualified opinion reflects a clear improvement in eu finances. i welcome the court's determination to continue to improve its methods of controlling the eu budget.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the draft council regulation implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office (09941/2017 c8-0229/2017 2013/0255 (app)) (rapporteur: barbara matera (a8-0290/2017))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. you are very quick to accuse countries that have not joined enhanced cooperation, even though enhanced cooperation is essentially voluntary. this is easy for you to do, but this is primarily the responsibility of the nation states and belgium has a judiciary that is sometimes subject to very sharp criticism, also from other countries, for example french politicians. but is it not better to start by healing the justice system at the national level before accusing others of not cooperating voluntarily?
madam president! the fight against financial crime should be a widely accepted and supported objective. however, this will remain primarily the responsibility of the member states' judiciaries. the eppo should be able to assist in this objective, but it should not replace national authorities and institutions. i very much regret that the reservations of those countries which have not joined the eppo, and among them are both those which have long been participating in the european community and those which have joined the european union in recent years, have not been addressed in this debate. i wish commissioner jourová well at this point in time, that this institution will be effective and that it will show confidence and good cooperation with the member states, because efficiency, confidence and good cooperation with the member states are the conditions for other countries to join this institution in the future. the worst thing you can do is what has been said several times in this room: intimidate those who have not joined the eppo with budgetary discrimination. this is very unfavourable, dangerous and harmful from the point of view of european cooperation and confidence in this new institution.
madam president! we have a common economic area, we have a europe without frontiers in terms of trade, people's movement, but we do not have a common area of investigation. we have a common area of crime, of course, but not of prosecution, so i welcome this idea and i see it not only as a protection of our budget, but also as an instrument to protect our financial interests, our economic interests. this prosecution should be a signal that the likelihood of detecting a crime is increasing, so the risk is increasing, so we should be paid less to commit economic crimes. i expect that if the prosecution is launched and effective, the states that have so far refused or hesitated will recognize that it is in their interest to join the and that would be our success. thank you very much, it's just been a minute.
in writing. the european public prosecutor's office will be tasked with protecting european funds and taxpayers' money by fighting financial fraud and abuse. the european public prosecutor's office is to be set up under 'enhanced cooperation', i.e. without the involvement of reluctant eu countries. the european public prosecutor's office will be established through the cooperation of 20 member states: austria, belgium, bulgaria, croatia, cyprus, the czech republic, estonia, germany, greece, italy, finland, france, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, portugal, romania, slovenia, slovakia and spain. the european public prosecutor's office will be established by the european parliament and the council, and will be based in brussels. other member states will be able to join at any time. the eppo will be responsible for investigating, prosecuting and bringing to justice those responsible for offences against the financial interests of the union. currently, only national authorities can investigate and prosecute financial fraud against eu funds, but their jurisdiction does not extend beyond the national borders. since 2014, meps have already adopted several resolutions in favour of the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, stressing the need to ensure the independence of prosecutors. the eppo will be based in luxembourg, but each member state will delegate at least one prosecutor to the premises. in the future, the list of serious crimes falling under the jurisdiction of the european public prosecutor's office may be extended, for example, to include terrorism. i hope that the polish government will change its mind and poland will join the group of countries cooperating in this area.
in writing. the fight against crime against the european union budget, which funds the union's key social and development policies, is a major challenge, especially in the context of increasingly sophisticated criminal methods. it is also important that the effective protection of the union's financial interests often requires cross-border criminal cooperation, which has often proved ineffective when using the existing methods of judicial cooperation of the member states. the eppo is a strong response to these challenges, but its functioning in an enhanced cooperation format may significantly limit its effectiveness. therefore, the accession of the remaining undecided member states would certainly be a decisive step forward in the process of integration and deepening cooperation in the interest of all union citizens. i also believe that the recent rise in the number of terrorist threats justifies a discussion on the possible extension of the mandate of the european public prosecutor's office to include the fight against particularly serious organised crime. however, the first priority for the establishment of the office must be to ensure that its activities reflect the effective fulfilment of its mandate in the field of the protection of the economic interests of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i wanted our debate not to weaken interpol or confuse them about what to do in the first place. we have times like we have, and there's a societal expectation that you need to be just as effective in prosecuting all kinds of criminals. that's the first and, in my opinion, the most important message. secondly, interpol should assess when to take action and whether it is going to be effective in the end, and when not to take action. i think that the debate on criteria is in every way good and fruitful, and once criteria are written down, they cannot be immutable, because our lives, our practice, are very dynamic. therefore, if interpol is to respond at all times to the needs of the moment, this dialogue, these conditions, these areas, these countries, these criteria, must be clearly defined, debated. i would also like to emphasize very clearly what commissioner jourova was talking about: compensation procedures, repairing damage if there has been a mistake. mistakes can happen, and these procedures would be important. so our debate should help interpol. that's the expectation that it's still going to be an effective organization.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not sure. this is not the first time that we've had a debate in this room about the safety of truck drivers. we have called on the commission and the french government at least twice in the past year alone to take decisive action in calais. the problem has not been fully resolved, and a polish truck driver paid the price with his life. another polish driver was killed in berlin when an islamic terrorist stole his vehicle to carry out a cowardly attack on a christmas market. why has the commission given so little attention to safety in its famous road initiatives? can the commissioner indicate where the safe car parks and hotels are located, where the commission believes drivers should take a rest? it is not a good idea to build such safe parking areas first, also with european funding, and then change the rules? the legislative package presented here in may is called 'europe on the move', but is it really a move towards driver safety?
mr. chairman, please! i have a different opinion about the words that have been said here about how hard it is to be a truck driver. well, no, gentlemen, it's not that kind of a church job. what we would expect is a certain minimum of security, and that is necessary. minimum safety both on the investment part, hence yes: road and along the road, including parking and ancillary service. i want to see police cars in every parking lot. well, it's a rare sight to see. i'd like to see the national highway traffic safety administration, which exists in every state, in the parking lot. both institutions are usually there to think about how to punish drivers, but not necessarily to help them for their safety, or for the safety of their cargo. it is a fact that drivers are not always trained, it is a fact that they are drivers often from countries that offer lower wages. but it's also a fact that they're operating under the pressure of this huge, cheap competition.
the first item on the agenda is the report by ms joëlle bergeron, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on prison systems and conditions in prisons (2015/2062 ((ini)) (a8-0251/2017) the subject is close to my heart, for during the communist era, i myself was briefly a political prisoner. so i'm going to be very interested in this debate.
that's a lot. i've been in jail a lot shorter.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today, thursday 5 october 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on eight motions for resolutions on the situation of persons with albinism in africa, in particular in malawi (2017/2868 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as you can see, stigma is a theme that's been coming up for years. we also discussed the stigma and the violation of the basic rights of people with albinism in africa in this room last july. it is regrettable that there is a lack of progress in improving legal protection and action for victims and in providing them with adequate redress and rehabilitation mechanisms. people with albinism in malawi but also in tanzania, mozambique are afraid of being kidnapped by gangs, killed or maimed, and this limits their sense of security, freedom of movement and of course perhaps most importantly access to education and health care. in the context of the regional action plan mentioned by my colleague tunne kelam, the african commission on human rights adopted such a plan in june this year, but it is important that the countries affected by this cruel practice develop concrete strategies focusing on education and awareness-raising activities on albinism. i also believe that local authorities and civil society organisations in particular have a key role to play in defending this group of people.
mr president, i will here join in my speech what my predecessors have said. it is good that we are adopting a resolution today clearly condemning the practices against this group of people in africa. i think it is very right that we have detailed in the resolutions what is happening to albinos in africa and in this particular case in malawi. on the other hand, i must say that the resolution is very descriptive and that it would be good if the commission, as the eu's executive body, in its specific diplomacy, dealt more with how to put pressure on african states, and in this case malawi, to give clear protection to albinos. the report makes clear the horrors that are being inflicted on this population. it's inconceivable that such things could happen in the early 21st century. and it's our moral duty to do our utmost to protect these people.
mr. chairman, please! the situation of albinos in africa is dark and frightening, and more like a medieval practice than a modern problem. unfortunately, because of the belief that albino body parts have extraordinary powers, the black market price for them is as high as $75,000, which for the average tanzanian is 150 years of work. although the death penalty is a legal penalty for killing an albino, the high death penalty and the very low rate of arrests mean that murders and mutilations of people with albinism are common. therefore, the main focus should be on educational activities to convince the population that the magical power of albino amulets is a superstition that has no relevance to reality. in addition, actions should also be taken to improve the lives of albinos by providing them with access to education and health care, as well as psychological support. i would also like to point out that the widespread confinement of albinos in institutions today unfortunately gives only a false sense of security.
author. – mr president, three years after the illegal annexation of crimea, russia is tightening its grip on the community of the peninsula by means of terror, massive violations of human, citizens’ and political rights, and by means of killings, abductions, illegal detentions and deprivation of basic rights. this policy is affecting, in particular, the indigenous community of crimean tatars. their political representation, the mejlis, was banned and two prominent mejlis leaders, mr ilmi umerov and mr akhtem chiygoz, were given lengthy prison sentences, as was mr mykola semena, a journalist linked to radio free europe. in our resolution we provide a long list of prisoners – political prisoners, prisoners of conscience – who are to be remembered. we also know the names of perpetrators of massive human rights violations, including judges sentencing, in the name of illegal russian courts, the patriots of the ukraine, of the tatar community. we need to broaden the group of people who are subject to our individual sanctions, to take restrictive measures against these people.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we are going to vote today on a resolution on the two crimean tatar leaders akhtem chiygoz and ilmi umerov, and the journalist mykola semena, who have been sentenced to prison for simply expressing their views. we demand their immediate release. but our debate is more general. we are speaking here about ongoing grave abuses by the russian federation of human rights in the illegally annexed crimea region of ukraine. the recently published un human rights council report about the human rights situation in crimea states that imprisonments, arrests, tortures and abductions were amongst the actions targeted against people opposing the russian annexation of crimea. these inhuman and shameful practices demonstrate once again that russia continuously violates international law and is a threat to european security. i therefore welcome the june prolongation of sanctions against russia concerning its annexation of crimea. the sanctions should be maintained and extended until the human rights of the people of crimea are fully protected and crimea is returned to ukraine.
madam president! i do not understand: yesterday i heard from mr timmermans that the rule of law is the most important thing, and today you want to establish a totalitarian system in russia so that mr putin can change the judgments of independent courts at your behest. you want totalitarianism! you don't know anything about crimea or russia. i was in crimea, there was 70% russians round the clock, 10% ukrainians, 10% tatars and 10% ukrainians speaking russian. these were the people who ruled crimea, because to be in power there, you had to be ukrainian. now the same people are russians and the same people rule in crimea and they treat the tatars the same way. i quote from the guardian, zair smiedlayev, a tatar activist who was accused of separatism under the ukrainian government because he said that one day crimea will be tatar. and he says, 'now the same people from the ukrainian security services who threatened me and accused me of separatism are wearing russian uniforms. look who's become a separatist! crimea is further from moscow than kiev, and that's the only thing that's changed from the crimean tatar point of view.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. crimea is a territory occupied by russia with all the tragic consequences that occupation entails. it's clear to all of us except congressman corwin-mickie. arrest, persecution and political repression are the daily lives of the tatar people, who are steadfastly trying to defend the values that are supposedly fundamental to the european union: human rights and respect for minorities. we call on the russian federation to release tatar and ukrainian political prisoners whose only crime is to persist in resisting injustice. because russia is illegally there, and the union should stand guard over the inviolability of its borders. the indictments and sentences of crimean tatar leaders ahtem chiygosh, ilmi umerov and journalist mykola semeny are important but only a small part of the truth about the consequences of russia's occupation of crimea. i have heard many such stories in person. the same methods and the same repression the russians used against the poles, the balts, the hungarians or the czechs in the not so distant past. we still remember that. only a firm western response and continued economic pressure can end this tragic situation of crimean tatars.
mr. chairman, please! rebecca harms said beautifully that victims can't remain nameless, that's the best we can do for them right now. even persecuted nations cannot remain nameless. the history of the crimean tatars, the history of crimea in the 20th century is a heroic history, that is, resistance to the bolshevik revolution (let us remember that the counter-revolution ended its heroic resistance in crimea and tatars took part in it), the constitution of a state recognized by the league of nations, the state of the crimean tatars, the terrible, savage deportation during the war by stalin and the heroic return to their lands. in fact, the fate of the crimean tatars is a test, always a test of what is happening in crimea. we cannot treat them as just a special case, as a community with victims, but as an entity that has a say in the future of its land.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i hereby close the vote.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is constantly extending its powers into new areas, and this evolution could be discussed if this enlargement were accompanied by more solidarity and responsibility. but it's the opposite. all of this is accompanied by more and more arrogance. unfortunately, the commissioner jourová has shown such arrogance by once again threatening de facto sanctions or selective justice, or special surveillance, against those countries which do not accept the competence of the european public prosecutor's office. my group, the conservatives and reformists, has already addressed the president of the european commission on this matter, but unfortunately it seems that - let me put it this way - mrs jourová simply says out loud what her colleagues in the european commission think in silence or leave it to others to say out loud. the european union is being led in a fatal direction and only a change of government can repair our relationship.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
madam president! the data show that the social economy in the european union is performing well despite the economic crisis, the effects of which are still being felt in some countries. the sector employs 14.5 million people and accounts for 8% of the european union's economic growth. the social economy thus creates jobs and, moreover, promotes long-term social inclusion. the situation on the european market is improving. the unemployment rate has dropped significantly and there are countries in europe where we have natural unemployment, and therefore, a level below which you cannot go. unfortunately, the employment rate in many countries remains poor, particularly for women, the elderly and the disabled. these people represent a huge potential which is still under-exploited in europe. i believe that the social economy has developed tools to activate these social groups. it's worth it. this will have a positive impact on the european economy and improve social inclusion in europe. it is therefore necessary to complement the new industrial strategy with a social economy action plan. i therefore join my colleagues in calling for urgent action in this area.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, there is one thing i do not understand: how come the commission can ask for and pay for scientific research, and when the time comes to write european law, this research is thrown out with the garbage? the smolders study, which should be the basis for the findings of the commission and for our work as well, shows that 80 mg of cadmium per kilogramme in fertilisers does not lead to accumulation of cadmium in the soil. don’t make any mistakes: this proposal will not lead to lowering our dependence on imports of phosphate or phosphorus rock. we will be dependant on different sources. what we’re doing right now is we’re going to stuff euros into the russian hands, and that’s a fact. please don’t ask me to go back to my home country and tell those people who are going to lose their european jobs that we are doing this to help them out, because it is not true. it is not based on good science, it is not based on good economy, and it is just crazy. we should not propose such a law, because it does not make any sense.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's proposal to drastically reduce the permissible levels of heavy metal pollution in fertilisers, mainly cadmium, is controversial. the project directly affects the fertiliser industry based on the exploitation of indigenous phosphorus rock resources in many eu countries. the union fertiliser producers will be forced to increase their production costs significantly either by expensive heavy metal ore purification technology or by importing lower-pollution mineral ores from one of the global exporters. i'm talking about russia, mostly. this will consequently worsen the economic situation of the chemical industry in the european union and will increase fertiliser prices. it also threatens to eliminate a significant number of jobs. the standards proposed in the report are drastic, and the argument of environmental protection and consumer health, while important, is not supported by any clear evidence to suggest the need for such a strict limitation of heavy metal content in fertiliser production. the new regulations must be realistic. member states with large chemical plants, some of which have been the main employers in the region for decades, cannot be expected to switch from synthetic fertilisers to organic fertilisers. i urge you to bear in mind when voting that the adoption of a report imposing such restrictive environmental standards on the european market will make it much more difficult for our national producer to operate on the european fertiliser market. it will also open the door to external actions, broadly understood, which are unfavourable to firms in our european market. the amendments submitted by the ecr group covering 80 ml/kg cadmium in phosphorus fertilisers provide an opportunity for the final report to take into account the best possible implementation of the gradual reduction of heavy metals in fertilisers, but also a reasonable time-span.
mr president, we all agree that cadmium content has to be limited – this is not the question we are talking about. the debate here is about the speed and the question of by how much we should reduce it. seen from this perspective, i find the proposal put forward by the commission and then changed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety unacceptable, simply because it goes too far, is far too restrictive and is potentially harmful for eu industrial agriculture. this is for three reasons. the first has already been mentioned: that there is no scientific evidence that would link the level of cadmium in fertiliser with the level of cadmium in food and crops. there is no solid scientific evidence that the limit of 80 mg or 100 mg leads to the accumulation of cadmium and not to the de—accumulation of cadmium. so we should be careful about making such statements. the second argument is that the majority of fertiliser plants in europe import their phosphate rocks from third countries. there is some cadmium content in these raw materials, but a feasible operational decadmiation technology does not exist and this technology cannot simply be developed overnight. so what is the alternative? the alternative would probably be either to go out of business or simply to look for some other sources of supply, but the single readily available source of supply is the russian federation. that brings me to the third argument. the third argument is that for phosphate rock, which has been considered by the commission as a strategic raw material, we do not want to rely on supplies from an unreliable partner. so, if you want to reduce cadmium content and at the same time not destroy our industry, we should think about extending the period of adjustment in order to give our industry time to develop technologies that would fulfil these noble goals as indicated in the commission proposal.(applause)
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the commission's proposal is shocking and totally unacceptable. as regards cadmium limits, european industry is currently dependent on african raw materials with a high cadmium content. today, there are no limits on cadmium in the european union. it is time to put the matter straight: the commission proposal will increase demand for low-cadmium deposits. who's gonna benefit from this? that is the fundamental question. russia will be the main beneficiary. i'm sure putin's colleagues are already wiping their hands because you're giving them a really great deal. finland, the country of origin of commissioner katainen, will also benefit. the commission proposal will lead firstly to an increase in raw material prices, production costs, fertiliser prices and, consequently, food prices.
mr. chairman, please! each type of fertiliser must be balanced. not only fertilisers of inorganic origin can be a source of translocation, but organic fertilisers can also be a source of translocation. so we have to look at what is rational about this regulation, first of all that we are moving towards a circular economy, that we want to put more organic matter back into the soil, but at the same time we want to use those fertilizers that are of good quality. this does not mean that agriculture will abandon inorganic fertilisers, that it will rely exclusively on organic fertilisers, because this is impossible due to the intensity of this production. in some fields, only organic fertilisers are the basis of production, since these crops are grown on artificial soils. so i'm saying that we should try to get as much organic fertilizer in the soil as possible, but we also have to take care of the soil, take care of the microorganisms. but we can't over-regulate the market. and here, if we introduce these proposals, which are related to cadmium, well, we're going to have to take some of our fertilizer sector off the market, because the cost of converting to lower-grade production requires new technologies, more expensive technologies, particularly when it comes to phosphorite from morocco. and another alternative source is phosphorite from russia or possibly a small amount from finland. so if we want to move away from a monopoly of the raw materials market by just one country, we should allow for a scenario of a reasonable reduction in the cadmium content of fertilisers, and then we will have this effect, which is associated with better fertiliser quality, with reduced pollution, including cadmium, but also with a price that is reasonable for industry and also for farmers who are going to use these fertilisers in production.
rapporteur. – mr president, it took three years to achieve the final version of the new psychoactive substances solution with the council. we have overcome the deadlock thanks to efforts by all partners, especially the maltese presidency. why is this so important? six hundred and twenty-eight new psychoactive substances were formally notified by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) in 2016 as dangerous for life and health, of which 100 were notified for the first time; 560 substances are now monitored. there were 254 victims of new psychoactive substances who died in eu in 2016 and 2017. in my country – poland – alone, nearly 3000 citizens were poisoned by new psychoactive substances from january to august this year. so it is a real challenge. new psychoactive substances are so readily accessible because of the new digital channels and lack of clear rules. it is a cross-border phenomenon, so our responses must be cross-border – european. it is our moral and political obligation to act. together, all member states and our partners, as well as local authorities and ngos, must act with determination to protect the health of our citizens, especially the young generation. and they must act as fast as possible, using scientific knowledge to build an early warning system and proper risk assessment arrangements – which are crucial for banning dangerous substances – coordinating far more effectively the measures taken by particular countries, using best practices, promoting the understanding of all threats related to the drugs and new psychoactive substances, giving the proper tools to the emcdda and supporting its organisational and financial capability. the new procedure in the regulation will be as follows. member states will ensure that the national focal points of the drugs network and of europol provide the necessary information on the new psychoactive substances to the emcdda and europol. the emcdda shall gather, together with europol, all this information and communicate it to member states and the commission. if there is a suspicion that the new psychoactive substance may pose health or social risks at eu level, the emcdda, the commission or a majority of member states can ask the emcdda to draft an initial report. the initial report shall give the first indication of the nature and scale of incidents, the chemical and physical description of the substance and the involvement of criminal groups in its manufacture. the report has to be prepared within five weeks. if the initial report indicates that the substance may pose severe risks, the commission requests that emcdda prepare a risk assessment report, which should include more in-depth analysis. this will be done by the scientific committee of emcdda in six weeks. if the risk assessment report shows that the substance poses severe risks, the commission prepares the delegated act to include this substance on the list of drugs. member states have to ban this substance as soon as possible, but within six months at the latest. so, as a result, we are shortening the procedure by well over a year, we will have more common european actions, a more precise risk assessment model and an early warning system. this regulation will be a complement to the european union drugs strategy and is necessary to protect our citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, again i would like to thank teresa jiménez and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. commissioner, special thanks are due to the commission because the commission helped us to solve many problems, so thank you very much again. and thank you very much to all participants in this discussion because i think that it was very multi-dimensional. the debate focused on many issues but the goal is clear: to restrict access to new psychoactive substances and drugs and understand how important this cooperation among all institutions – the emcdda, europol, member states – is in order, on the one hand, to fight against criminal organisations and punish the sale, distribution and production of those substances and, on the other, to halt the spread of those substances all over europe. the second key point raised during the discussion is the problem of awareness. it would be a very good opportunity when we start implementation of the directive and the regulation for the emcdda to do more, in cooperation with all countries, to raise awareness about new psychoactive substances and drugs and make those issues much more understandable for all social groups, especially the younger generation. the last point is related to proper implementation, because having a good legislative framework and good cooperation is important, but we need to combine all such measures properly: legislation, cooperation between all institutions and awareness-raising.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 october 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by virginie rozière on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on justified measures to protect whistleblowers acting in the public interest when disclosing confidential information held by companies and public authorities (2016/2224(ini)) (a8-0295/2017).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 october 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the protection of whistleblowers requires a thoughtful and responsible definition of the legal framework within which the whistleblower is to be protected. exceeding this framework can lead to the degeneration of the system and the creation of tools that could be used by the power of authoritarian regimes to fight their political enemies. the recurring notion that the burden of proving one's innocence should be placed on the accused of abuse, rather than requiring the accuser to provide credible evidence of clear guilt, is just such a tool. so is the need to create a publicly accessible website that allows anyone to anonymously accuse anyone without being held accountable for any harm they may cause. journalists should also continue to be protected by press law they should not be granted whistleblower status. press law allows, even requires, journalists to protect their informants, but it also requires them to check the information they receive from such sources. otherwise, journalism could become an arena for different communities to fight each other. so journalists should not be considered whistleblowers. so let us be careful that we do not throw the baby out with the bath, in demonstrating to the voters an uncompromising will to fight for honesty. the system of whistleblower protection established should genuinely serve the common public interest.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by laura agee, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the guaranteed minimum income policy as a tool to combat poverty (2016/2270 (ini)) (a8-0292/2017).
in writing. reducing inequalities is one of the european union's overriding objectives, enshrined in the treaties. therefore, while social policy remains a competence of the member states, it is also necessary to take action at union level to achieve greater social cohesion and to raise the standard of living of citizens. the proposal to establish a minimum income is a concept that deserves consideration, but it should be borne in mind that economic differences in social and legal systems between member states make it impossible to introduce it at eu level. that is why i have doubts about the introduction of the minimum income framework directive. i also believe that people affected by poverty and excluded from the labour market must first of all be supported in their social integration and also in their professional activation.
in writing. the court of auditors' report showed that little progress had been made in implementing the eu's youth guarantee schemes. suffice it to say that there are over 4 million unemployed people under 25 years of age in the union. in some member states, as many as a quarter of young people are unemployed. in the case of the youth guarantee, the court's auditors found that the main source of failure was the lack of a strategy with clear intermediate and final objectives. in many member states, the target group has not even been sufficiently defined. this has made it difficult to reach all those who need an offer of employment, further education or vocational training. in addition, data to measure the achievement of the reported results were often not collected. the programmes did not meet the commission's expectations, but above all they failed young people in difficult situations. it is therefore necessary to draw lessons from the experience gained and to consider how to increase the effectiveness of these programmes. there is certainly a need to review the overall cost of the youth guarantee and to adapt the programmes to the available financial resources. in addition, the commission should ensure that member states justify how the actions financed by the union for youth employment will respond to existing needs. these changes must be made quickly, because we cannot afford to waste the next few years.
mr. chairman, please! the last year has revealed the extent of interference by the russian federation's services in the democratic elections in many european union member states. the latest example was last week in the czech republic. the russian federation uses multilingual television channels, think tanks, as well as trolls and zombie computers to spread disinformation and political propaganda designed to discredit the european union, undermine its unity and destroy cooperation between individual countries. at the same time, it supports populist and nationalist parties. i believe that we cannot remain indifferent to this hidden aggression which is affecting our community, and i would therefore like to ask the commission to carry out a thorough analysis of this phenomenon and to propose effective tools and ways of countering these dangerous practices of the russian federation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, three million people in romania - a huge number for a country of 20 million - signed a petition calling for a referendum in defense of the natural family structure based on marriage and parenthood. this is a great example of the rebirth of civil society, of a sense of responsibility for the common good, of the rebuilding of christian opinion after decades of communist oppression. unfortunately, this great initiative has also been attacked in this parliament. it's hard to believe, but there have been calls for the romanian authorities to block the referendum. this is, unfortunately, another very dangerous sign of the growing totalitarian drift in our institutions, in the structures of european power. in this situation, our romanian friends need to be assured of one thing: you are not alone, good will prevail, we are with you.
mr. chairman, please! the problem of migration is the failure to respect the rules of the schengen agreement, which i had hoped would survive the inevitable collapse of the european union. the reason is the racism that exists in the european union. when an australian, an american or, god forbid, a russian comes and wants to cross the schengen border without documents, they are stopped by force and eventually shot. and if 10,000 somalis, nigerians or nigerans come, they're let in and they get all their papers without asking. the law gives way to force. the union is weak against the strong, it gives way to the masses. she's strong for the weak. and that is a fall if the law gives way to force. and i wanted to explain to comrade pittelli that he was right. socialism is about robbing the poor and giving to the rich. that's why rich people like buffett support socialism, they support the left, and not, god forbid, free markets. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
madam president, there is not much that can be said about the last council meeting. nothing really happened that would amount to a breakthrough, brexit being a case in point. on the other hand, this need not be a bad thing, considering that the hyperactivity of the european institutions usually creates more problems than it solves. on the positive side, immigration seems to be treated with conspicuously more sense than in the past. the president of the council himself has admitted that mandatory relocation was not a good idea. it took him a lot of time to admit what many governments had said right at the outset. he should have listened to us, not those he usually listens to. there is also the problem of nord stream 2, this notorious and politically hostile russian—german energy enterprise. as might have been expected, the council failed to give a sufficiently strong signal to the commission to dump it, the german government being clearly supportive of nord stream. the commission, which so eagerly roars like a lion when confronted with weaker partners, in cases like nord stream seems to behave more like a sheep; pardon the comparison. i conservatively predict that it will continue to do so. let me now reply to mr weber. i want to thank him for pointing out the alleged – i would say – inconsistency in polish politics and, by way of courtesy, i would like to reciprocate though he is not here. i wonder which is the real thing: what mr weber, representing the ruling party in germany says here, criticising nord stream or the german government policy that relentlessly carries out this impossible and politically dangerous project? so which is the real thing? is it confusion or is it maybe, as some say, a deliberate strategy?
madam president! the most desirable public good in modern europe is a sense of security. this is the biggest deficit of our time and the most important battleground against left-wing and right-wing populism, which lives by feeding people's fears. it is also the best measure of the credibility of the european institutions. reading the recent council conclusions in this light, one can be moderately optimistic, because the chaos of 2015 in 2017 is turning into the management of migration. instead of treating symptoms under the pressure of time and events, there is prevention, tackling the root of the problem, anticipating new threats, and not just automatic relocation, which i don't think has much of a future in the european union. i am pleased that the european parliament is taking part in this process and making a good contribution to the reform of asylum law. now a few words on the leaders' agenda in the area that interests me most, namely the future of the eu budget. it is easy to see that the leaders' agenda timetable does not exactly coincide with the state of the union address and the resolution that parliament will adopt today, which expresses the desire to conclude the negotiations and reach an agreement for the period after 2020 before the european elections in 2019. i participated in these conversations, sharing my own doubts and remembering that it took us two and a half years to do this last time. but i see in this parliament's position more than wishful thinking, i see in it a determination to show that the union can act and compromise on the most difficult issues. this is the european 'yes, we can'. and so, knowing that we cannot do this without leaders, without heads of government, it is imperative that scenarios be agreed between the european institutions to move together and move quickly.
in writing. the european council of 27 member states on 20 october took stock of the state of play of the negotiations with the united kingdom and decided to begin preparations for the second phase of the brexit talks. i welcome the progress made so far, albeit small, but after a series of completely unsuccessful meetings, even a small, compromise step is welcome. however, further efforts are needed to safeguard the rights of citizens, both eu and uk, and to resolve the issue of the uk's financial obligations to the eu, while not forgetting ireland's fragile brexit situation. the european council asked the uk authorities to ensure legal certainty and to guarantee all citizens and their family members adequate legal and social assistance. i am pleased that the united kingdom is declaring its willingness to honour its commitments, including financial commitments, made during its membership of the eu. negotiations are still ongoing. i hope that at the december summit we can move to the next phase of talks which will bring more concrete solutions.
(inaudible as microphone not switched on) ... eur one million for finding, killing or handing over to the police the murderers of ms daphne caruana galizia.
mr. chairman, please! we have voted today on a number of important issues: social, economic, economic, political, but this vote must be considered very important because it concerns young people between the ages of 15 and 25, and therefore at the time when young people are being formed, which is very often the case for the rest of their lives. so, issues related to education, education, upbringing, and ultimately, work are of crucial importance at this time. it is therefore particularly important that the union's youth employment package, including the youth guarantee, is used effectively. in recent years, we have led to a radical reduction in youth unemployment from almost 24% to just under 17%, thanks to eu support, of course, but also thanks to economic development. this is the direction we expect to take in the future, and we should make sure that this decline is even deeper.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the report, of course, which takes account of new psychoactive substances and also introduces an early warning system and penalties. but human ingenuity can be directly proportional to the length of the list of banned substances. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to explain my vote by recalling the progress made in iceland in the prevention of addiction through the development of healthy alternatives, which have been surprisingly successful in this country. drug abuse has fallen from 42% to 5% in 2016 over a period of 20 years. this has been accomplished by the introduction of a nationwide prevention program, the cooperation of parents, teachers, and researchers, education, but also the promotion of extracurricular activities and sports, the giving of more attention and time to children, the use of controls, prohibitions, and financial aid. this case should be an inspiration for everyone in the field of prevention.
mr. chairman, please! the issue we are discussing is important because there is no doubt that honest whistleblowers, acting in good faith and above all with no self-interest, should be protected. however, in order to do so, any legal rules should be precise and restrictive rather than enlarging. the proposals that have been put forward in the european parliament are unfortunately solutions that could lead to a very large number of pathologies, and yet without any consequences. i therefore believe that it may be better for this important and legitimate idea if the european commission prepares and presents to the european parliament a legislative proposal on this matter. perhaps then we will have a more balanced, more rational basis for discussion of this matter.
mr. chairman, please! human activity, including work, provides a person with equal participation in society, is first and foremost the engine of his personal development, but also the basis for the success of his family. so there is nothing worse than creating passivity or maintaining passivity in a society. so, giving out money, without the obligation to study, without the obligation to work, without the obligation to be socially active, can create passive attitudes and demanding attitudes. the secondary effect of such proposals may also be an additional migration boost. therefore, although the idea itself is noble - everyone is equal, whether they deserve it or not, because they are people, because they are citizens, because they are inhabitants of europe - it should be evaluated negatively.
madam president! mr verheugen said in an interview two days ago that we must increase competitiveness because we are losing to the countries of the far east. i read the european commission's programme. i listen to these things. they're all going in exactly the opposite direction. because if, as my predecessor here wants, we want social rights, human rights, to take precedence over economic rights, then of course it will be impossible to compete with anyone. - i know. you have to understand, europe used to be ahead. we were the engine of development for the whole world because european values were the rule. they are the exact opposite of the eu values. if we want to get back to the top, we must reject all the acquis communautaire. we have to reject democracy. how can you believe that the majority of the stupid are more than the wise will make a sensible decision? you see, you see the results not only of the last election, but also the results of the decisions made by democratically elected governments. we have to go in exactly the opposite direction. i believe that europe will be reborn, that the occupation of the european union will be overthrown and that a free europe will be born again.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. this is my group's position on the priorities of the european commission's 2018 work programme, from the perspective of the committee on development, the deve committee. we support the establishment of mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the sustainable development goals by the european union and its member states, in line with the new european consensus on development. we are aware of the current limited capacity of the european development fund to support initiatives that address both security and development. we are in favour of the establishment of a new financial instrument to provide comprehensive support for democracy, good governance and the protection of human rights. the european union and its member states have agreed to continue to support the development of a comprehensive approach to migration, including the development of a comprehensive approach to migration management, and to promote the development of a comprehensive approach to migration management. from the perspective of the european union's relations with the african, caribbean and pacific countries, as we know, next year is the moment when we should start negotiations on a partnership to replace the cotonou agreement. our cooperation with african partners should be based on greater regionalisation and support for state resilience, and should be based primarily on political dialogue and promotion of development and trade.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i wanted to thank you for this presentation of the commission's objectives for 2018. there are many important issues that the commission has put forward, as if to be big on big things, such as the energy union, the continuation of this project, the defence union, including the defence of the borders of the european union or the digital agenda and connecting with it and with the defence union cybersecurity. i am very pleased that there is a declaration on enlargement to the balkan countries, at least one of the balkan countries, and that work is under way. and there is something that is more - so to speak - divisive and controversial - it is the question of a special budget line for the euro area. we need to talk about this. but it also proposed, among other things, a 'mobility and climate change' package, which is needed but also very controversial, as future emissions regulations should be correlated with the long-term vision of the automotive sector's transition towards zero emissions. so what we need here is a kind of road map for electromobility that is important, necessary and future-proof. but it also has to take into account the development of the native european car industry - in my country there are over two hundred thousand jobs and they would like to know what this transformation project is going to look like. and perhaps a small matter: this is the question of the 2001 summertime directive of the parliament and the council. in my country, for example, there is a debate and there is a great deal of support for abandoning this twice-yearly change of time. i think that if this debate has started, it should be addressed.
in writing. in the commission's 2018 work programme, i draw attention to the role of the european union in supporting member states in reforming and modernising their education systems. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the union should become more involved in this process and cooperate with the member states in identifying and implementing major reforms that will enable europeans to acquire the skills and qualifications necessary to function in a dynamic, rapidly changing socio-economic reality. the key objective for us should be to offer a high level of education throughout the union. modern education, including academic education, is not just about imparting knowledge and learning, but also about teaching the skills of selection and the practical application of knowledge. the pursuit of quality improvement in education is a continuous task that requires the involvement of all stakeholders, improvement and adaptation. the new teaching solutions supported by digital technology are important, allowing for a personalised learning model that promotes interdisciplinarity. a change in the governance of the education system is also needed to promote quality education and social inclusion. i also note the support of teachers and the pursuit of excellence in teaching. finally, a rapid and effective integration strategy is also needed in the face of the influx of refugees.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, this is the last budget of the eu 28 and we need successful implementation of our ambitious policies because there are citizens’ expectations. so, in this context, the committee on industry, research and energy regrets the significant cuts in horizon 2020. we cannot expect the eu to be more innovative and competitive when our framework programme is used as a financial source for other projects, no matter how important. another issue: cuts to cosme and the council’s reductions to the sme instruments: to create an sme—friendly business environment it is crucial to provide the necessary financial instruments. last but not least, financial resources for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit), the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) and the european global navigation satellite systems agency (gnss).
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in the debate on the 2018 draft budget, i would like to strongly support parliament's position to cancel all the cuts made by the council in the draft presented by the commission. the attempt by parliament to increase commitment appropriations by almost €2 billion over the ceiling proposed by the commission, including €366 million for the youth employment initiative, and the rebuilding of the 'horizon 2020' and 'connecting europe' programmes, is also noteworthy. the increase of €110 million in the 'security and citizenship' strand is also welcome, as although the number of migrants arriving in eu countries has decreased, over the past nine months more than 100,000 have arrived, creating the need for additional support for the countries that receive them. the reinforcement of the 'global dimension of europe' strand with an additional eur 300 million will also create an opportunity to support more generously than ever the trust funds of african countries to support their development and thus prevent further waves of immigration from africa to europe.
in writing. in the face of the challenges facing the union, i see the budgetary debate as a key issue in defining the eu's political strategy. i would point out that, while maintaining budgetary discipline, the necessary financial resources from the union budget should be used to meet the political priorities and to enable the eu to meet its specific commitments. the key issues for me remain strengthening the economy, competitiveness, employment, especially for young people, and security. however, education and culture are directly linked to the strengthening of a competitive knowledge-based economy. as a member of the cult committee and its long-standing budget rapporteur, i would therefore like to emphasise with particular force the role of adequate support for cultural and educational programmes and call for sufficient commitment and payment appropriations for these programmes to ensure that they are implemented in a manner appropriate to their objectives and to address the problem of low success rates caused by underfunding. these programmes have clearly demonstrated their european added value and are enjoying unwavering popularity among beneficiaries. i consider that the prevention of another payment crisis is a matter of priority, not only in this year's budgetary procedure but also in any subsequent one. i would therefore point out that any increase in the level of commitment appropriations should be accompanied by a corresponding increase in the appropriations for payments due by the end of the year. i 'm not .
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i feel like i am experiencing déjà vu during today’s debate. the lack of cooperation from the council, and the difficulties repeatedly encountered in the discharge procedure that we have because of that fact, keep on going. first, the council continues to be silent in relation to the remarks made by us in our discharge resolution from april, reiterated from previous years. then, neither have the budget of the european council and the budget of council been separated, nor has the council joined the union transparency register. the council’s whistle-blowing rules continue to be publicly unavailable and the detailed anticorruption guidelines do not exist. regarding building policy, the information provided on the council’s website does not include details about the cost incurred in relation to the council’s buildings, and that is unacceptable. we know, of course, that there is a critical exchange of information on buildings policy between the building departments of parliament and the council, but the exchange should definitely become regular and detailed information should be given to parliament in the council’s annual financial report. here, i would like to recall once more that we need progress reports on building projects with a breakdown of the costs incurred to date, together with information on the costs related to the delayed completion of the europa building.
in writing. i join in the grief of the family of the late daphne caruana galizia, who dedicated her life to the search for truth, tracking down corruption at the highest levels of government, and revealing the so-called panama papers, which describe the process of placing funds in various tax havens. i demand a thorough investigation and that those responsible be brought to justice. one of the most important means of detecting illegal activities, in particular such as fraud and corruption in the private and public sectors, organised crime, tax fraud and tax evasion, is the activity of whistleblowers. whistleblowing is linked to the freedom of the press and is essential for bringing to light illegal activities or activities that harm the public interest. it should be emphasised that the activities of investigative journalists such as ms caruana galizia serve to strengthen democracy, political and economic transparency and public information, and that they should be considered as essential actors in the prevention of illegal activities.
in writing. the murder of maltese investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia is a scandal and an attack on fundamental european values, namely freedom of expression and the rule of law. the right of the journalist to investigate, to ask uncomfortable questions and to raise awareness is at the heart of our values and must always be guaranteed. freedom of speech is the right to express our own views and to present our understanding of reality. without an independent and honest journalism, no democracy is complete. if journalists cannot report for fear of their lives, then we are facing a significant restriction of press freedom and a dramatic regression of democracy. a healthy democracy requires a free and pluralistic media, free from state interference, political pressure and commercialism. it is very disturbing that such a scandalous act of violence has appeared in europe. the maltese authorities must now prove that these kinds of crimes cannot go unpunished. it is therefore of the utmost importance that an international investigation into this heinous crime be carried out swiftly and thoroughly. what matters now is that justice is done. we must stop the assault on freedom of speech and defend journalists around the world. journalists should feel that they can carry out their function of commenting on public affairs, informing the public, communicating information and ideas in a manner free from threats, harassment or intimidation, and are not prosecuted for expressing views that do not constitute incitement to violence.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. safe working conditions, especially health and safety, are one of the key conditions for decent work and fair employment. we have it in the charter of fundamental rights of the treaty, so it can also be considered a human right. and in this context, the fact of this report, which i congratulate the rapporteur very much on, and this revision of the directive, i consider very important, because the development of science allows us at the moment, in principle, to make quite frequent reviews which will allow us to verify both the list of harmful substances, carcinogens or mutagens, and may allow us to verify the acceptable levels we use. and these are very important issues. i consider this proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include reproductive agents to be particularly important in this report, as the european parliament has already called for. infertility, reproductive diseases, lactation disorders or malformed foetal development are some of the potential effects of harmful substances and are also some of the major concerns of workers in the context of exposure to harmful substances at work. the legal protection and related prevention of pregnancy does not cover the time before conception or during a very early pregnancy, when it has not yet been formally established and reported. and because of that, regulations that would allow for this prevention to be done sooner are highly anticipated. today we know that there are at least a few dozen of these potentially harmful substances that affect the reproductive system, the reproductive system, so it is very important that we catalogue them, analyse them and gradually introduce them into this directive. this concerns the approximately three million workers who are exposed to these substances, but the perception of the problem is much more important, as infertility is a serious problem in europe. one in five couples in europe can't have a child, so the perception of it is -- as i said -- completely different. the report's added value is in the parts that concern improving data collection methods and the exchange of good practice between member states, and in the records on more effective controls, more frequent health checks on workers.
mr. chairman, please! no one needs to be convinced that exposure of workers to carcinogens and mutagens in the workplace is a key occupational safety and health issue. nothing is more valuable than the health of the worker. it is therefore perfectly understandable that all exposed workers should be subject to lifelong health surveillance or that reprothoxins, substances that have a harmful effect on reproduction, should be included in the scope of the directive. it is also important to know the maximum levels of occupational exposure to benzene, vinyl chloride, hardwood dust, lead and its inorganic compounds and asbestos. it is important that the restrictive limit values, for example for compounds of chromium, lead, wood dust or crystalline silica, are respected in all member states. it is important that the monitoring of these substances is reliable, genuine and comparable in order to continuously educate workers on this issue. finally, it is important to protect particularly vulnerable groups: pregnant women, women who are breastfeeding, the disabled and young people.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. for all of us, the health and safety of our employees is a key issue and a priority. therefore, from the outset, the polish delegation to the epp group supported the european commission's proposal on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens or mutagens. the limits proposed by the european commission were based on sound analyses and an agreement between the social partners. unfortunately, during the work on this directive in parliament, there were attempts to drastically tighten the limits contained in the preliminary draft, not necessarily due to the need to protect health. the consequences of such a restrictive approach could be very dangerous. there are too many cases where companies are unable to meet the excessive demands and some of them start to break the law, with very negative consequences for the health of the workers. in most cases we have found reasonable solutions, but i cannot agree with the solutions proposed for hardwood dust in particular. the limitation that was included in the compromise is too restrictive. in my country, sawmills and wood products manufacturers are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises and the unjustified reduction of wood dust to two milligrams per cubic metre is not feasible for them. the same is true of chromium. i am convinced that as a parliament we should base our decisions on sound scientific research and above all encourage industry and scientists to look for alternative materials and production methods and give businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, time to adapt. i thank the rapporteur for her involvement in the report.
madam president! discrimination against roma is a fact and it is a shameful fact. despite special programmes and policies to spend money, we have not achieved the satisfactory results we expected, because a large part of the roma community still suffers from poverty, unemployment, living in poor conditions, and the report describes this quite accurately. there are many numbers that illustrate this situation exactly. and all these impossibilities are superimposed by stereotypes and prejudices, creating a vicious circle that is very difficult to break. and yet, roma identity, roma history and the roma holocaust should not be the subject of expert discussions, but simply a part of our lives. i therefore welcome the report we are discussing today, as it presents a new approach, a new language for the roma issue, and also stresses the importance of mutual trust and encourages the member states and the european commission to build it. i believe that this is the key to understanding this report and its message. this report aims to actively involve roma in social, political and cultural life through consultation with roma representatives, leadership support, training and support of young roma leaders, and above all, a transition from a paternalistic attitude to full partnership. the first step in this direction is proposed in the report on the audits of programmes implemented in the member states. these programmes have been implemented with full commitment for years, so it is worth looking at them to see why they are not as effective as we would like and to look for new solutions, including by including roma beneficiaries in this assessment.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. we all know how important it is to get back to a fully functioning schengen area. i often say that this is one of the key symbols of a united europe and a great success of integration, our success. we can't let that go to waste. that is why i congratulate agustín díaz de meira today on his report, which is another brick in the so-called smart borders package. by ensuring that every third-country national crossing the union border is registered and that their biometric data is recorded, we are closing a previously existing gap in ensuring better protection of the union's external borders and our security. this is a huge step forward. the ees provides access to the visa database and vice versa, which is of the utmost importance, and this will reduce duplication of information and ensure consistency of data on persons crossing our borders. it'll also help shorten border procedures. our european openness and hospitality has been abused by people who enter the european union with bad intentions, including members of criminal or terrorist organisations. the new system will make it easier to protect us from that. systematic entry and exit records will also facilitate the identification of such persons and their means of movement. what is very important is that this system does not force us to give up the values and freedoms which are the essence of the union, first and foremost a secure europe, a europe without borders. of course, our joint work on strengthening schengen is ongoing, we are continuing work on etias, strengthening the mandate of eu-lisa and we are waiting for the european commission's proposals on interoperability of databases. the effectiveness of the new databases, including the reliable operation of the entry and exit system, will depend on their maximum use and full integration, including through the possibility of simultaneous searching. so i wanted to congratulate agustín díaz de mera again. today, we are closer to achieving this difficult balance between freedom of movement and the safety of europeans.
in writing. over the past few years, the eu has seen a deterioration in the sense of security of its citizens, linked to, among other things, an increase in the number of illegal immigrants and cases of terrorist attacks. one of the conditions for reducing these concerns is the adoption of an entry system into the eu. the proposals put forward improve the system for identifying people coming to the eu. the identification of illegal immigrants through the creation of europe-wide biometric databases is particularly important. those databases will make it possible to track the travel history of third-country nationals, including persons suspected of having committed a crime. the idea is that the proposed solutions should be put into effect as soon as possible, so that member states not only collect the necessary data for their own use, but also share this information with all member states and eu institutions responsible for combating terrorism, such as europol or eurojust.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. sexual harassment is a form of violence against women and is covered by many laws and international treaties. it's so common, we hardly notice it. it's hard to find a woman who hasn't experienced picking on, offensive jokes, unwanted text messages, unwanted proposals in the workplace, and sometimes worse. if this phenomenon is so common and so old, we can ask ourselves why it is that we are talking about it today and why it is that yesterday, today and probably tomorrow all the media and the internet are writing about it. there is no new law, no breakthrough in the procedures. it's just that the spell has been cast, the conspiracy of silence has been broken. the victims of abuse started speaking anonymously in the crowd at the same time, and this synergy made their voices heard again. it also brought to light all the institutions involved in tackling the problem of harassment. we learn that they exist, how they are structured, how they are funded, how they work, how effective they are, which is the biggest barrier to reporting harassment. we learn that it's possible to maintain privacy and confidentiality. we also learn that most of the cases reported in the media have never been reported, for fear of embarrassment and loss of employment, and if the situation took place in an important institution, such as parliament, other barriers arise: fear of being seen as disloyal, of harming the company, of diminishing its prestige. so we're looking at the behaviors, the opportunities, the barriers that victims of harassment face. again, as always with violence, our focus is on the victims. what we fail to see is the important context in which violence and harassment occur. we don't talk much about the perpetrators, and we don't talk much about the witnesses. in a recent interview, the french finance minister was asked if he would have reported a colleague if he knew he was being harassed, and he said, without hesitation, "no, of course not". the french minister's answer should not surprise anyone, because everyone does it closes their eyes and it's the first thing to be done with. i am not satisfied today that we pay so little attention to the perpetrators of harassment, and i am not satisfied that we are also talking about the european parliament today, where we make laws and speak about social justice. we have procedures, regulations and tools, so i think we should use them. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. of course, i can't comment on a specific case because i don't know the story you're talking about. i can only say that in parliament, and this one, and all the other parliaments, and in most institutions and companies, including private ones, there are committees, procedures that can help in cases of harassment. the problem is that this is a hidden phenomenon, and these cases are not reported because there is a general social consensus that this phenomenon should remain hidden. and that's what needs to change.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. today we're talking about a very important issue, which is sexual exploitation and harassment of women. we are talking about these issues in the context of the european union. we say that this is happening in the european parliament too, and it is a proof of how completely inefficient our institution is, that it is here, in the heart of a so-called democracy, in the european parliament, that women are being harassed. i think our debate today should give women the strength to shout and say "no" loudly. the strength of our debate should be that women should have the courage to speak out about abuse, if it is happening. i also think that the consequence of this debate cannot be just to have an audit on harassment in the european parliament. i think we, all of us ladies, should be wary of young girls being forced into marriage with grown men. let us also be alert to them. maybe someone will do an audit and see their pain.
mr president, yesterday we held a minute’s silence in honour of ms daphne caruana galizia. after that, i proposed that we offer a eur 1 million prize for the murderers of daphne caruana galizia, dead or alive. i was told by mr rainer wieland that this was impossible because there is no provision in the budget to offer a prize for the murderers, dead or alive. i want to have a budget in which we can offer a prize for the murderers, dead or alive.
mr. chairman, please! nearly 2,400 amendments were submitted, and fortunately, these amendments did not destroy the budget. it is a miracle, it was a lot of work for the committee on budgets, but also for us here in this chamber. what i'm most pleased about is that the general budget has been increased by only 2 billion, and also by 2 billion in commitments, which are the most commonly due commitments. this is a small adjustment for a budget of 164 billion euros. but what i am most pleased about is what ms šojdrová has already said, namely the rescue of the erasmus+ scholarship programme, which has not only been saved but has been improved. creative europe has also succeeded in this area in three key sub-programmes, i.e. it has defended itself. and the pilot programmes - only four out of 16 failed to get approval, but i want to thank you very much for the 12.
mr. chairman, please! it's a bit of an excuse, but i'd like to draw your attention to the way this case is being handled - a matter of safety understood in conjunction with occupational health. the commission has put forward a good, moderate, time-bound proposal, but in the course of the negotiations, changes have been introduced quite suddenly, which have been disastrous for many operators. the time taken to adapt to the conditions of work is shortened, expectations for protection at the workplace are increased and, as a result, the operators are surprised by the urgency of a situation that is announced in official communications as much milder. i would like to stress once again that we as members of parliament should work in such a way that economic operators, the citizens of the european union, are not surprised by our decisions.
mr. chairman, please! i have repeatedly stressed that there is no dilemma between the physical security of citizens and the security of the personal data of the same citizens, that the two must be taken equally seriously and that they are mutually indispensable. i am also talking about this today because this proposal to store flight data for three years for all those who have received a right of residence and five years for those who have not, in the first element is correct, in the second the proposed period may prove to be too short. especially since we have to remember that the denials of visas, of stays in the european union are different - sometimes purely technical, sometimes related to evidence of contacts with terrorist groups. i think in the latter case, that time should be much longer.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about fighting the smugglers, about destroying the boats, breaking the smuggling networks. after more than a year and a half of operation of the european centre for the prevention of the smuggling of migrants, we can congratulate europol, frontex and the national border services on the results of their joint work. however, smuggling is not the source of the problem, but rather the result of a previous lack of a holistic approach to migration, especially in terms of effectively addressing the causes of mass departures from the country of origin. so it's good that things are starting to change on this. there is also no doubt that migratory pressure has decreased significantly in the past year. it is clear that european governance on migration is beginning to bear fruit. that's a good sign. the most important thing is that we continue to work together in the areas we all agree on - that is, the effective protection of the union's external borders: financial, human and professional support for border countries, the implementation of return programmes and a european strategy for africa. the latter is particularly important. according to unhcr, many sub-saharan africans would not have made the extremely dangerous journey to libya and then to europe if they had known the scale of the risks and the protection programmes available. that is why all the actions based on the trust fund for africa are so urgently needed. the trust fund for africa should also help to improve the conditions in the libyan camps, which are indeed dramatic. we cannot be deaf to the reported cases of violence, rape, torture, flagrant human rights violations. therefore, the activities of international non-governmental organisations in the camps should be supported. if we're doing so much to address the immigration crisis, we can do this, too.
mr president, mr preda is mistaken. poland has accepted around one million migrants without relying on the eu mechanism. on the eve of the eu-africa summit, i acknowledged the heart-breaking poverty and the huge violence on the continent. i therefore welcome the trust fund for africa and other endeavours to diminish both disasters. based on said experience, i pay tribute to europol, frontex, eunavfor med operation sophia, nato and eu member states, such as italy and greece, for their endeavours to manage the migration problem and to eradicate both illegal migration and the criminal activity associated with it.
mr. chairman, please! it's a serious matter, i'm amused by it. first, i'd like to make it clear to the left that illegal immigration has nothing to do with racism. this is just a man who doesn't have a valid passport and visa. i've been in a few countries illegally myself. there are several hundred thousand illegal immigrants from poland in the united states, and there is no racism in that, of course. second, i get the impression that the left hates entrepreneurship so much that they're more concerned about the fact that smugglers are making money off of it than they are about the immigrant problem. even mr. preda has expressed his hatred for the smugglers who make money off this. he just hates capitalism. now let's talk about this seriously. the evil is the welfare. socialism is a system in which heroic struggles are overcome that no other system has ever known. if there were no welfare, there would be no immigrants. nor would there be any demoralization of europeans who receive the same benefits. it's time to end welfare and bring the immigrant problem back to normal: only immigrants who want to work honestly will come
mr. chairman, please! i have listened to the council and commission representatives and i have wondered, commissioner, why some of the obvious measures have been proposed and are being implemented so late. we all remember 2015, when we heard from a very important european politician that it was impossible to protect her country's borders, the external borders of the union. a lot has changed since then. this is the result of the resistance of the societies of the member states and the recent elections in many of these countries. you can't disregard the voice of the people on such a fundamental issue. it is only to be hoped that the proposed reform of the dublin convention will also remove the utopian content of the convention, which is detached from life, because we cannot invite millions of people into the european union and then check their individual right to asylum. i would also remind you that matters relating to legal immigration are the responsibility of the member states, not the european union.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr gunnar hökmarka, drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the economic policy of the euro area (2017/2114 (ini)) (a8-0310/2017).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 26 october 2017.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: the report by paul tang on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the establishment of common rules on securitisation, the creation of a european framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation and the amendment of directives 2009/65/ec, 2009/138/ec, 2011/61/eu and regulations (ec) no 1060/2009 and (eu) no 648/2012 (com ((2015) 0472 c8-0288/2015 2015/0226 ((cod)) (a8-0387/2017) and the report by othmar karmaras on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms (com ((2015) 0473 c8-0289/2015 2015/0252 ((cod)) (a8-038/2017).
mr. chairman, please! despite the lack of enthusiasm, the polish delegation of the ecr group decided to support the draft framework plan. on the one hand, we appreciate that securitisation can increase the efficiency and stability of the financial system and create additional sources of low-cost finance for smes, but on the other hand, the system has serious shortcomings. credit risk is merely transferred from the banking institution to the non-banking institution, which makes it difficult for the supervisory authorities to control financial transactions. what kind of transparency, ladies and gentlemen, are we talking about here? the second major risk is the ability of banks to manipulate the ranking of these artificially generated instruments, again without external control. in my view, the project requires constant monitoring and impact assessment so that its sole beneficiary is not again the powerful banking sector, but that it safeguards first and foremost the ultimate interests of the recipients of credit services, that is, entrepreneurs and retail customers.
mr president, commissioner, securitisation is a measure that allows for the transformation of illiquid financial assets into fully tradable financial instruments. in this way, asset-backed securities deepen the liquidity or financial markets and increase the capacity of banks to extend more credit. moreover, they allow the risk and term structure of available marketable financial instruments to better adjust to the different risk preferences of individual investors. in this sense, securitisation is able to contribute to financial stability and the more efficient allocation of resources across the economy. however, securitisation may carry also risks. investors may not have access to full information about the underlying assets and their quality. securitisation may also involve deals that are overly complex and even opaque. this may result in excessive risk taking by investors and may lead to accumulation of systemic risk in the entire financial sector. the idea behind the two legislative measures we are discussing today is to reduce these risks and to promote a safe and liquid market for securitisation in the eu. firstly, the regulation strengthens requirements for due diligence and imposes minimal risk-retention standards to ensure that banks retain a net material interest in asset-backed securities they issue. secondly, there is a ban on re-securitisation. thirdly, all underlying documentation relevant for any transaction is made readily available to investors. fourthly, the crucial amendment to the crr ensures that the capital treatment of securitisation for banks better reflects the risks involved. mr. president, i would like to express my thanks to both rapporteurs and to the european commission for their work. when adopted, this package will not only help us establish a clear set of criteria to identify simple, transparent and standardised securitisations, but it will also contribute to building the capital markets union in europe.
mr. chairman, please! cooperation between the european union and new zealand and australia is at a very good level. the total trade between the two sides is about 58 billion euros: 8 billion for new zealand, 45 for australia, but that's not the limit of what we can do. but i would not like to spend my time on economic matters in this brief speech. i like the commissioner's statement that we want this agreement and these agreements to build bridges and not walls. i have heard many speeches here about building walls, not bridges, which the european union wants to build in the world in order to create a world based on mutual understanding, mutual cooperation and cooperation, a world based on peace and building prosperity.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in taking part in the debate on the commission's mandate for trade negotiations with australia and new zealand, i would like to emphasize that we cannot accept sacrificing european agriculture on the altar of a trade agreement with these countries. australia is a market of 23 million consumers, new zealand is a market of 4.5 million consumers, and the european union of 27 countries (excluding the united kingdom) is a market of 440 million consumers, a market 20 times larger. and since both australia and new zealand are countries with high agricultural production, carried out in specific climatic conditions, with much lower production costs than in europe, with over 70% exported, the risk to european farmers is obvious in this situation. in addition to the restrictions already mentioned in this chamber, it is therefore necessary to include safeguard clauses in trade agreements with these countries, which will be automatically triggered if imports of agricultural products from australia and new zealand exceed the established limits, which could cause serious imbalances on the european agricultural products market.
mr president, it is a shame that the huge european union is afraid of the small new zealand, lying 10 000 miles from europe. it is a shame that the european union, who takes care of the poor people, now takes interest in the producers – not of the poor people, who want to have cheap new zealand butter. new zealand’s butter is very good, and i want to eat cheap new zealand butter.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president, i would like to thank you. the growing popularity of flying is due in large part to the ease and speed with which tickets can be booked. existing open global distribution systems allow for the selection of the best offers by comparing ticket prices on the same route with different carriers. this means enormous benefits, including, above all, real savings in travel planning. from the consumer's point of view, the introduction of additional charges for using price comparison websites or the services of agents selling tickets for different routes means access to a smaller offer and higher ticket prices. the commission notes that the airport charges are not discriminatory and that the introduction of these charges by other airlines is worrying. the practices of third-country airlines in this area are also characterised by unfair competition. i am glad that the commission has finally identified the problem, although complaints about this solution were already received two years ago when lufthansa introduced the fee. i hope the commissioner will look into this and investigate this matter thoroughly.
madam president! technological progress, the development of internet services and the availability of mobile solutions allow consumers to buy an air ticket online at their convenience, and reliable and trustworthy information about the final price of the ticket plays a key role in the booking process, and the final purchase is always preceded by a comparison of ticket prices between different alternatives, as practice and common sense show. the addition of additional charges to purchases made through global distribution systems and the lack of reliable information constitute, firstly, unfair competition and, secondly, infringement of passenger rights and there is no justification for such practices by certain airlines. just as we appealed here in this chamber three weeks ago for the rights of ryanair passengers whose flights were cancelled to be enforced, so today we are appealing through commissioner stylianides to commissioner bulc to take a decision, but not a decision that will take two years or more to take, but a quick decision that passengers and citizens of the european union are waiting for. we ask that the matter be thoroughly investigated, for example in the context of the regulation on the code of conduct for computerised reservation systems.
madam president, i agree with mr telička that it is really high time that we discuss this issue in the plenary session, and i thank all colleagues and all members who brought up this question. it is extremely important for consumers and for a well—functioning digital single market to have neutral, independent access to the search systems of air transport services. the consumers cannot be discriminated against online, and their choice of best offers cannot be restricted by business models. transparency and neutrality in the search for flights increased competition and made travel within the eu affordable for many europeans. we should therefore protect and promote this, and i appeal to the european commission to undertake all possible efforts to protect the transparency and neutrality of searches and of free competition in the aviation market. we will continue a discussion on this subject in our working group on the digital single market, which i chair, and precisely during our next meeting on 22 november, and you are all invited to join us. but let us not forget that this is not the only problem that consumers encounter when booking flights. they are often geo-blocked and have to pay a higher price because of their place of residence, or – to put it more precisely – because of the temporary location based on their ip address. this must not take place in our single market. we are now working on the geo-blocking regulation, and this regulation will enable us to get rid of this kind of discrimination – at least on independent distribution channels, i am sure. i really do hope that we will be able to reach an agreement on this with the estonian presidency very soon.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank mr christogonos very much for his opinion. our opinion is a subsidiary opinion and covers the whole process of applying the law in a broader context. first, we would like to draw attention to the fact that a well-implemented law requires that, already at the drafting stage - this is primarily an appeal to the european commission - the law be economical, unbureaucratic, coherent and understandable to citizens. the better the projects in the start-up phase, the better the enforcement. the same caution applies to the transposition of directives into national law: they should not be burdened with additional content that complicates the law and multiplies bureaucratic barriers. the afco committee emphasizes the transparency of the whole process as a condition for public scrutiny and ensuring citizens' right to information about the law-making process. we attach great importance to strengthening the role of national parliaments as partners of the european institutions. we are considering relaxing the rules so that national parliaments, in the first phase of early warning and the application of the subsidiarity principle, have more options than they have had so far. it'll be good for the good of the law. these are the fundamental issues raised by the afco committee.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, should be the guarantor of the application of community law, and to do so in practice, it is necessary to further improve the transposition of the law in the member states and to guarantee its proper respect. in 2015, the commission received 3450 complaints concerning alleged infringements of union law. the member states concerned by the majority of complaints were italy, spain and germany. the high number of pending infringement proceedings shows that the correct application of union law remains a major challenge. as of the end of 2015, there were 1368 open infringement cases, a slight increase on the previous year, but still a lower number than in 2011, which is a kind of optimistic sign. the correct and timely transposition and implementation of union law into national law and a transparent national legislative framework ensuring full respect for the fundamental values and rights enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union should be a priority for member states in order to avoid cases of infringement of community law, which would result in a breach of the due protection of citizens. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a well-prepared document.
the rule of law is primarily about controlling power, and the rule of law in the european union is about controlling the authorities of the european union. if any government comes to the conclusion that the allegations that it does not follow the principles it claims are absurd, are unacceptable, it may end up like the government that put its opponents in psychiatric hospitals. of course, for now, the critics of the eu authorities are treated as enemies of europe, but it is still outrageous. i hope one day we'll turn back from this road. unfortunately, we often see that specific violations of the law in the member states, against which we would only expect a verbal position, are ignored by the authorities of the european union - for example, the censorship included in the new french law on the so-called prohibition of obstructing abortion or the concealment of crimes committed by illegal immigrants in individual member states. the european union authorities must respect the voices calling for the rule of law, wherever and whenever they come from.
the debate is closed. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this regulation. (the sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m.)
of course, i voted for a resolution against sexual harassment not only in the workplace, but especially in a european parliament, which is made up of representatives of the european nations who enjoy social prestige and power, even though we disagree with certain aspects of the istanbul convention. however, i would like to point out that even a few resolutions or monitoring of such cases, including their penalization, may not reduce this type of behavior that violates personal dignity, when social and moral principles are not respected, where the law is created against the family or in effect leads to a fight between men and women, promoting freedom from christian values, resulting in the creation of a perspective of human liberation from biological conditions, undermining the value of the family created jointly by father and mother as parents and creating a new model of sexuality. promoting some aspects of equality in practice means not being sensitive, or even vulgar, to women, focusing on sexual values.
mr. chairman, please! like anna záborská, i think it is a scandal to use the drama of women being attacked or sexually abused to promote the istanbul gender convention. we hear about it all the time, and there's this weinstein thing that's about exploitation in the movie world. we know about the exploitation of women in power structures and how these structures can be used to exploit women. we still do not know who in our parliament is suspected of such practices, and therefore i demand that the persons who have behaved in such a degrading manner towards women in our parliament be publicly exposed. we know that the police often hide the correlation between illegal immigration and attacks on women, as was the case in cologne. unfortunately, an example of this is the momentary rejection of the amendment, and the scandal behind it all is the use of women's dramas to promote the istanbul gender convention and to put pressure on states.
on behalf of the ecr group. like most doctors, i appreciate the preventive importance and role of vaccination, but like some researchers, i have doubts about the safety of vaccinating newborns. the authors of the interpellation also ask about the application of the precautionary principle in the context of additional (already ten) mandatory vaccinations in italy, especially since according to the studies, the mandatory vaccination does not affect the immunization rate, which is also important before we know the real response to the intensive stimulation of the immature immune system and the developing nervous system. in poland, an infant receives 26 doses of the combined antigen, including the first day of vaccination against tuberculosis and hepatitis b. it is important to know whether the child is able to respond properly to such a wide variety of stimuli and whether vaccination poses no risk to brain development, for example, because the blood-brain barrier is not fully developed until the child is six weeks old. is it worth postponing the first vaccination at least beyond the age of 2 months? because the baby is protected by maternal antibodies during the first months of life, vaccinations against certain microorganisms given shortly after birth do not produce permanent immunity. babies have no developed immune system and do not reach maturity until about three years of age. humoral immunity is associated with immunoglobulins passing through the placenta, mainly in the last 2 months of pregnancy, and the child reaches 50% of adult immunity very slowly, only after 12 months. i think it would be useful to study the real response of newborns, infants and children who, although vaccinated, are often exposed to infections in day care and kindergarten.
mr president, this is now a sort of dismal tradition when we start the plenary in strasbourg. we are confronted with the news of new human disasters and natural catastrophes. this time it is the terrible earthquake in iran and iraq, with a death toll of hundreds. as chair of the delegation for relations with iran, i am coming forward immediately with a letter of deep condolences to be sent to the people of iran. whatever the politics of contemporary iran, this is a matter of human solidarity and it is at your discretion, mr president, how to express our compassion – the compression of the european parliament – for the people affected. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i would like to point out that if we are talking about ukraine, mr mikheil saakashvili - whom i know personally - is fighting against bureaucracy and, while he has had great success in georgia in fighting against bureaucracy and corruption, he is facing various obstacles in ukraine. his son has recently been detained, and i think that parliament should be interested in what is happening in ukraine with mr saakashvili.
madam president! i would like to congratulate mrs gesine meissner on her report, on the way in which she presented it to us and on her cooperation with the counter-reporters. i would also like to refer to the words of commissioner bulc, who made us aware that inland navigation is still an important part of the transport sector in the european union, that is, inland navigation is part of the transport space that we have. the advantage i see here is also largely that we are standardizing the regulations, we are basically recognizing certificates, but what is important - which was also said - i come from a country that mostly floats on its inland rivers - well, that's how it works - but has vocational schools that train for inland navigation. i think this solution will be a good basis for reviewing, upgrading, modernizing the vocational training program.
i welcome the fact that the european parliament is once again debating road safety. because we have a growing problem. it is true that road safety in europe has improved over the past two decades, but the number of road deaths has decreased. but on the other hand, and i must emphasize this very strongly, there has been a very clear stagnation in this process for several years. the report places a strong emphasis on the possibilities offered by technology. i believe that at least as much time and attention should be given to new legal and organisational solutions. because technological progress alone will not solve everything. and the second and final problem is, let's remember that we're going to have more and more cyclists on the road. well, in my opinion, the proposals to protect the lives and safety of cyclists are too passive.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 november 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the persecution of christians in the world (2017/2957 ((rsp)). this is a very important debate for many of us.
yesterday we celebrated the ninth solidarity day with the persecuted church throughout poland. this time it was to save christians in the middle east - the cradle of christianity. the poles are not a rich society. but millions of my countrymen have volunteered to do so. the scale of this project, the specific programs that fund projects in the middle east -- housing, health, education, re-settlement -- make this program unique in the world.
freedom of religion is a basic human right, and in these days, every month, over 300 christians are killed, nearly 800 victims of violence are recorded, and over 200 churches are destroyed. it's happening on a global scale, from north korea to africa. but i am proud to say that this parliament, as one of the first institutions in the world alongside the us congress, in february 2016 recognized the crime of isis against christians and other minorities as genocide. i call on the high representative to express this position in her international activities. there are legal consequences to being found guilty of genocide. victims, their loved ones and the situation in the region in general need this judgment and punishment of the guilty. the whole international community needs this. in 2013, the council adopted guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion. and the guidelines that we have also worked on in parliament are a great basis, but they have to be implemented much more efficiently than they have been. i would like to underline the important fact of the establishment of a special envoy for the promotion of religious freedom outside the union, following parliament's resolution of february 2016. but the mandate of the envoy, which is jan figel, who is doing an extraordinary job, needs to be strengthened. i think this is particularly important when it comes to high-level integration with the european external action service. we in parliament constantly monitor the affairs of christians in the world. i would also like to point out that next week we will be holding a special hearing in the subcommittee on human rights on religious persecution, particularly the persecution of christians. i would also like to thank my colleagues, coordinators from other groups, for their understanding and support on this issue.
christians are the most discriminated against and persecuted religious group in the world. according to open doors, as many as 200 million christians are subject to such persecution. every year, the european parliament identifies and condemns cases of crime and discrimination in different countries of the world, and this unfortunate list includes as many as fifty countries. it is good that we have been holding appropriate debates in strasbourg for several years now, condemning these reprehensible practices. unfortunately, the resolutions passed in this house have not had the desired effect. the european union was created by the christian democrats. this predestines her not only to expose her christian roots but also to protect christian values and christians, both on the continent and around the world. i think that the eu agencies should be more decisive in countering persecution and providing concrete assistance. unfortunately, we are now seeing a tendency for the european union to be more committed to protecting the rights and persecution of so-called sexual minorities than to protecting christians.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it has been rightly pointed out here and there that christians are the most persecuted religion of all those persecuted for religious reasons. the member also mentioned the countries where such persecution takes place. i would therefore like to ask you: could you also make some suggestions: what could we do, what actions could we take to prevent, to limit this kind of action, to be a support for christians in the world, so that they are not subjected to this kind of ruthless discriminatory action?
the situation of christians is quite specific, because christians are not just people of faith, but they are part of churches. christians are the church, and therefore persecution of christians is de facto persecution of the churches. i think that's very important. so if we're going to be serious about this, we need to support organizations that support churches, like the church in need. these are organizations that are doing a lot of work on this. but the churches have a huge role to play. i don't want to repeat the arguments about freedom of religion, religious freedom. but if this does not appeal to someone, if he does not fully understand the specific nature and genesis of european values, then he should be attracted by purely political arguments. christians, especially in the middle east, have been a guarantor of stability through their contributions to education, to health care. in fact, for many years they have been a buffer between warring parties. if the european union and our foreign services are indifferent to this fact, it will be impossible to stop the conflict in the middle east unless the presence of christians is guaranteed. because they're a fundamental element from the very beginning. this is a political argument that is unquestionably connected to the role of the churches in political and social life.
i listened very carefully to what commissioner vella said. i was hoping for a speech by president mogherini, but there were some very important words. but we're missing the most important thing. we're talking about christians being the victims of some kind of intolerance. we have even heard of the various political and economic contexts in which christians have been persecuted. but we have not talked about the most important thing - that christians have been persecuted for 2000 years, because the main source of this persecution is anti-christian hatred, which the european commission and this parliament still refuse to condemn. after all, this week marks 100 years since the bloody bolshevik rule in russia. according to the yakovlev commission, 200,000 priests were murdered as a result of them, if we limit the calculations to the clergy alone, 7,000 priests were murdered in spain, and in the polish pomerania of gdańsk during the german occupation, a third of the priests were murdered. how much more blood must be shed before this simple conclusion is finally reached? anti-christian hatred must be condemned by the civilized world.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange, and i would like to thank all the honourable members who took part in this debate for their interventions. i think i can say that from this debate it is very clear that we all share a common interest in keeping freedom of religion or belief at the very top of the european union’s agenda. as the hr/vp, federica mogherini, stated in a debate in this same chamber on 16 may, freedom of religion or belief is a fundamental right, and we will continue to look at how best to use all the instruments available to us in humanitarian relief, stabilisation and development assistance, political dialogue, and in specific support to freedom of religion or belief to everyone everywhere. so allow me to close by signalling once again my appreciation and that of the hr/vp, federica mogherini, of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the international agenda.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by alain cadec, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, and adin-ioana vălean, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the protection of coastal marine habitats for posidonia oceanica (o-000076/2017 - b8-0605/2017) (2017/2903rsp)).
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here with us tonight. this is a serious issue because the meadows of posidonia oceanica are declining at an alarming rate due to climate change and other human activities. although the seagrass is considered the most important and well—studied seagrass species of the mediterranean sea, to date there has been a limited effort to combine all the spatial information available to protect the meadows across the basin. its full recovery is usually considered irreversible in a human timescale because it is a slow—growing species with a low recovery rate. the management of direct impacts such as trawling, anchoring, dredging, pipeline refilling can help recovery and promote resilience, although this can take an extremely long time. transposition of the seagrass is often unsuccessful, largely due to the fact that habitats are still too deteriorated to allow planted seagrass to survive. so what can we do now? it is crucial to undertake specific actions to mitigate the threats causing the regression and promote good conservation practices before the seagrasses regress, thereby allowing these habitats to fulfil their key roles in coastal areas. i hope that this discussion will motivate the european commission to take specific actions to promote this situation.
member of the commission. – mr president, we agree with parliament on the importance of coastal habitats and in particular the need to protect the posidonia oceanica meadows. we are concerned as much as you are about the unfavourable status and deteriorating trends reported in some of these habitats, and we acknowledge member states’ efforts as well as research work during the last decades to increase knowledge on the status of such coastal habitats. i would like to make some comments. first of all, i agree that fishing is not the only factor affecting the state of the species of posidonia, which is highly under threat. mr mato mentioned restoration. yes, the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) is offering the member states financial support not only to protect, but also to restore the marine biodiversity and ecosystems, including the posidonia meadows. what mr mato mentioned about what spain is doing and about what other member states are doing, they are doing this with the help and support of emff. protecting marine biodiversity is very much part of a number of actions on ocean governance. we have a number of tools at our disposal including the cfp, maritime spatial planning, the integrated maritime policy, action against the negative impacts of climate change, and all these actions support our efforts to protect the species. mr faria mentioned cop23. yes, i was in bonn last week and i was thoroughly pushing, together with my colleagues, the concept that you cannot separate the oceans from climate change – they are both inseparable and they are either mutually constructive or mutually destructive. the benefits that we are getting from the oceans are very clear. the oceans absorb some 90% of the planet’s heat, they absorb some 30% of the planet’s carbon dioxide, they give us some 50% of the planet’s oxygen and they will have to take all the melted ice when it becomes water. the oceans are climate change, as i said. this is something that we are pushing: you cannot discuss climate change without including the oceans in the discussions or in the negotiations. my colleague ricardo serrão santos mentioned the support for protection; yes, they are protected not just through funding from some of our funding schemes but also through legislation and directives, especially through the habitats directive. we talked about funding; i already mentioned the emff, life, the european regional development fund, and these are all contributing towards the protection of the species. i mentioned as well that life on its own funded 20 projects to specifically protect and restore sea grass meadows. we are also working a lot on the detailing and the monitoring of the investments. what counts is not the amount of money we are putting in; what counts is the output. that is why we are working on the output indicators and on the output targets as well. i agree with mr ferreira when he said that the sea grass meadows have huge value as biodiversity habitat. unfortunately we keep on repeating, and rightly so, that they are under threat, like all the other species in the ocean, like all the other species especially in the mediterranean. mireille d’ornano mentioned a number of factors affecting these species. this is one example of a species which is giving us a lot of benefit, and what are we giving in return? i mentioned some of the benefits that we are getting from the oceans and in return we are only giving back over-fishing, pollution, eutrophication and all the negative impacts of climate change as well. mr goddyn: yes, there are problems not only in trawling zones, and that is why i started by mentioning that the problem is not only the fishermen. i am saying ‘is not only’ because bad practices in fishing could account for and could contribute to the denigration of these matters. we have eutrophication, we have acidification. just to give you an idea, the acidification in our oceans has increased by 20 % since the industrial revolution. when we talk about de-oxygenation, we have today in our oceans four times as many dead zones – without any life, without any oxygen – as we had in 1960. things are becoming very urgent in all the oceans, but in some areas more than others. unfortunately, i myself come from the mediterranean and my heart aches that the mediterranean – we always say we are different, yes, we are different, but for me the idea of difference should be being different in a positive way, not being different in the sense that we are worse than the other regions. mr wałęsa, i agree about the resilience of nature too, because it is very resilient, but nature has to be given a chance. renata briano also spoke about the endemic nature and importance of this species to the mediterranean sea. we talk about the importance that this species has in the mediterranean sea, but unfortunately it is also affected by global threats as well, such as climate change, acidification, temperature increase, eutrophication and so on. i want to mention also what maria rodríguez said, because in the mediterranean this year we came up with the medfish4ever declaration where we had all the countries of the mediterranean for the very first time, all of them signing a declaration, and the declaration refers to the importance and the urgency of protecting not just the fishing species but also paid special attention to the mediterranean’s biodiversity where posidonia is included. it is a first step in the mediterranean because commitment alone is not enough; signing and committing is important, but the most important thing is when it comes to delivery. we have to make certain that what the mediterranean countries have committed to, they implement. rosa d’amato rightly mentioned the negative economic aspects if we are not looking after our seas from a biodiversity aspect as well. rosa also mentioned renewable energy and this is also something which i have been pulling and pushing for quite some time, because the oceans can be one of our best allies when it comes to renewable energy. when we talk about renewable energy, very often we only think about solar and wind, but we have to start looking, and i have to say with pleasure that europe is also already looking, at alternative energy coming from the oceans, tides, waves, currents so on and so forth. human actions were mentioned by ms dubravka şuica and i agree that we are testing our oceans and seas beyond their limits. when we talk about human actions, we should also include factors like climate change because after all climate change is also the result of human actions. mr caputo again mentioned that these are resistant species, but they too have their limits, and we have to look not just at the individual effects of all the threats that we have been mentioning, but we have to look at the accumulated effect of all the threats, when you have climate change working along with eutrophication, working along with acidification, working along with overfishing and illegal fishing and so on. mr eck – and i will stop here – mentioned the importance of acting now, and for me this is a priority, because acting and acting together is not enough unless we are going to start acting now. i believe that there is a lot of awareness out there, but unfortunately the urgency is not there. why am i talking about the urgency? because i believe that things are moving much faster than we thought. if i give you an example of the great barrier reef, only 20 years ago scientists were putting the first questions about whether the great barrier reef would take on the effects of climate. it was just a question, and later on they said that by 2050 the reefs would be feeling and having the negative effects of climate change. that was supposed to happen in 2050. today, we are already seeing that half of the great barrier reef is already dead, 30 years before 2050. we have to act, but we also have to act faster. i also agree with mr marias, because this is a species that takes a very long time to grow but you can destroy it in a few moments. with regard to the questions that were raised by mr marias, i have taken this on board and i believe that we have sent the information needed. if not, i will check again with my colleagues and make certain that you get the information because i remember that you raised it here.
thank you very much, commissioner! i think i can express the opinion of everyone in this room that it is rare for the commissioner to respond to every question asked or every opinion expressed. you did, and we appreciate that very much, although you did outline a vision that glaciers could disappear, that the oceans could run out of oxygen. it's not good to go to bed after 10 p.m. with a vision like that. but that's what happened in the debate. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the report by iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the use of cohesion policy instruments by regions in response to demographic change (2016/2245 (ini)) (a8-0329/2017).
i'm listening to this discussion and i'm surprised that people aren't addressing the most important cause of the demographic collapse. it's just a way of getting women out of their homes. sending women to work outside the home has resulted in fewer children. and everyone here says that women should work outside the home, and they're causing a demographic collapse. until we see that elephant standing in the corner of the room, there's no point in discussing it at all.
member of the commission. – mr president, of course i would have liked to start by thanking ms garcía pérez for this report. but allow me as a woman, as a commissioner, to say that it is inadmissible to have such a speech and to hear such a speech against women in the most democratic house of the european union. i know your point of view about women. we are not weak, we are not stupid. we are women and we are on an equal footing with you, with all of you. (applause and cries of ‘bravo!’) so, above all i would like to warmly thank you for this report prepared by ms garcía pérez. i am very grateful to you for your energy in raising awareness of this important issue of the population of the european union, and i also want to congratulate you for replying to these kinds of speeches. i was in poland and i know the reactions in poland. the polish people thanked me for taking the floor and i said that this is unacceptable in the 21st century to say that women are stupid, weak. we are not per kilogramme here, mr! (referring to korwin-mikke) your report reminds us of the wide variations in the demographic trends between and within member states. already today, many areas in europe face serious challenges with important social and economic consequences. you know very well that i visited some parts of the depopulated areas in spain, as well as in northern europe. i really think this is a very important topic and we have to be very serious. we have a lot of studies showing that population change is determined by the age structure of the population – mortality, fertility and the balance between inward and outward migration. it is not about women staying at home and making children. it is about the economy, it is about families: it is for a better life that they go out because, as you said here, they have no opportunities and not enough investment, not enough means for a better life. so these kinds of thing evolve very slowly, and as a result demographic trends also evolve slowly, including at the regional level. so it is our duty with public policies to take these changes into account and, as you already said, the cohesion policy already contains many provisions to address the specific needs of geographical areas suffering from severe and permanent natural and demographic handicaps. measures identified by member states show a variety of responses to demographic challenges. however, whatever actions you take, they might be taken having inclusion and equality as a precondition. and this in turn means providing essential infrastructures such as child care, health care and long-term care facilities. another important question to address is the integration of migrants across europe, and i am very grateful that you have included this because it is a challenge that was not foreseen but which we have to face these days. as the report indicates, we must support member states by reinforcing measures to tackle this issue. you have already underlined here that it is our responsibility to ensure that all migrants are integrated, and this means that they can fully participate in all aspects of our societies and communities, be it social or economic. at the end of the day this is clearly a win-win situation. for one thing, the alternative is unthinkable. exclusion in any form breeds resentment, confrontation, extremism and sometimes violence. integration, on the other hand, is a promise of stability and of peace, not to mention the economic contribution that migrants, usually young people, can bring to an ageing population. i believe that the european union funds, including the cohesion policy, can and should provide opportunities for member states to support such integration measures. in her report ms garcía pérez also touches on, and i saw that many members touched on, gdp and the possibility of having new indicators to allocate cohesion policy funding. i agree with all of you that gdp alone does not accurately enough reflect the needs of a region, as it leaves out crucial parameters such as quality of life, social inclusion, level of employment or sustainable development. this is why, to complement gdp, the commission is investigating other indicators, including demographic change. regarding the new ex ante conditionality on national strategies for demographic development, i will be very honest with you. you know very well that, at the level of political groups, we are all reflecting on how to reduce the overall number of ex ante conditionalities and simplify the mechanism of accession to the european funds. ex ante conditionalities have proved to be the most effective mechanism to ensure the right framework for investment, but at the same time they are a burden for beneficiaries, and i am of the opinion that we should be careful not to overload the cohesion policy with too many conditions. anyhow, after this very fruitful debate, and listening carefully to your interventions, i am more than ever convinced that cohesion policy cannot tackle demographic change in the eu through a one-size-fits-all approach. some regions will face sharp population decline while others will experience steady population growth. demographic changes in the eu therefore call for a differentiated approach. we need to ensure policy coherence and flexibility to address this specific situation, and this can only be done through close cooperation with local and regional authorities.
thank you very much, that will be analyzed. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 november 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr olli ludvigsson, drawn up on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the action plan on retail financial services (2017/2066 (ini)) (a8-0326/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr ludvigsson on this report. i think it is a most welcome expression of parliament’s strong support for the deepening of the single market in retail financial services. we also think that a single market for retail financial services which can rely on innovative solutions is very welcome. to get there we need: first, to increase consumer trust and empower consumers; second, to reduce legal and regulatory obstacles for businesses when offering services across borders; and, third, to support digital innovation in financial services for the benefit of consumers. we are moving fast to implement our action plan. at the beginning of 2018 we expect to come forward with a legislative proposal to lower the charges on all cross-border payments throughout the european union, in particular for non-eu countries. to achieve this, we propose to expand the scope of the cross-border payments regulation and we welcome your support on this. this is particularly important for our fellow citizens from countries which are outside the euro zone. to support the provision of financial services across borders, we will also aim to facilitate the cross-border use of electronic identification. the reality is that more and more europeans are living and working in an eu country that is not their own. highly mobile citizens need a means of electronic identification, allowing banks to know their customers wherever they may reside in the european union. we will bring together the required expertise on e—identification and anti-money laundering to make sure that providers of financial services can work with customers all over europe. lower transaction costs and e—identification across borders are key to empowering consumers. it is a way to help them take advantage of the best financial services that are available all across the european union. but we also need more market transparency. therefore we will promote high quality standards of websites which allow to consumers to compare various offers. moreover, we will investigate any barriers that may prevent consumers from switching to better offers. this will also put us in a better position to assess the possible benefits of additional european product regimes, as suggested in your report. along the same lines, we will explore ways to facilitate access to loans across borders. we will also address in a more efficient manner the over-indebtedness of consumers linked to credit activities. we will seek to introduce common standards to assess the capacity to take out a loan. we will also reflect on the common principles for lending. thank you all for your interventions. this report and our discussion confirm that we share the same vision, namely that the european union must ensure that all european cities have equal access to financial services of the highest quality. we should always remember that consumers are, first and foremost, citizens. this means that we need to put in place a framework capable of preventing any abusive or opaque practices. it also means providing innovative solutions to overcome any obstacle, whether legal or behavioural, that might unfairly hinder consumers. this is precisely what our action plan is about: achieving a single market in consumer financial services that is transparent, fair and innovative. the european union cannot afford to lag behind on this matter. let me conclude by mentioning another key enabler of a deeper single market for financial services, fintech. the action plan referred to our internal task force and the public consultation on fintech. in early 2018 we will present the fruits of this work and table a fintech action plan. it will offer a vision for a technology-driven and globally competitive financial sector.
thank you, commissioner. i understand that the rapporteur already feels that he has succeeded. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 november 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! everyone is seeing the end of the propaganda of the greatest hoax in human history, namely, global warming. the fact that the scientific community is already retreating from the idea of man-made global warming is one thing, but i am demanding that the european union, which has spent a lot of money on this fight against global warming, investigate who has benefited financially from this alleged fight against global warming, who has decided to spend this money. because it's really a lot of money. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed. thank you for your attention.
this week marks 100 years since the terrible night the bolshevik party took power in russia. it was the beginning of this bloody century, and we had the right to spread a very strong "never again" that would remind us of that terrible century. first of all, the millions of people murdered, the millions of victims, the hundreds of thousands of people who resisted communism and have the right to our tribute, the enslaved peoples, half of europe enslaved for half a century. unfortunately, we didn't hear such a strong statement that day. it is good that this week there will be a debate on this subject in the chamber of this parliament. but until communism with its aspirations, with its hatred of religion, of the nation-state, of the family is definitively condemned, the world will not be safe.
i'm closing the debate.
the tax haven system could not have reached such a size without at least the tacit approval of politicians, including european politicians. you can't make money in paradise only in paradise. someone had to organize all these structures, supervise the flow of money, and someone had to make sure that everything was legal. such people are not on bermuda beaches, but rather in european capitals. i'm also in brussels. let's take luxleaks and the famous case of steelie neelie, the european commissioner. the problem of tax havens can only be solved at the global level, which is why an agreement on this issue is necessary at this level, not just within europe. because paying taxes cannot be an obligation that the richest and the global corporations are immune from. i would like to point out that my country, poland, has been a european leader in reducing the vat gap for two years and is also one of the first countries to regularly raise the issue of tax havens at meetings of eu finance ministers.
madam president, we have not yet completely finished our work in the committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana) and yet we have another scandal surfacing. this gives an idea of the scope and extent of tax evasion and tax avoidance by big multinational companies and wealthy individuals. one could say "déjà vu, déjà entendu" most of the cases uncovered in the paradise papers seem to be legal from a purely legalistic point of view, although they are not in accordance with the spirit of law. but what does ‘legal’ mean? is it legal for apple, a company, simply not to pay a single euro of taxes on 120-something billion us dollars when small and medium-sized companies in europe have to pay 20% or 30% in corporate tax every year? how come it is possible that this is legal? if this is legal then the law is imperfect and the laws have to be changed. apart from that, we have to remember that these practices are unfair and deeply immoral. they undermine the trust and confidence of our citizens in state institutions. this has to stop. commissioner moscovici, i very much welcome your promises and your proposals that by the end of the year you will come up with a blacklist of countries that are not cooperative jurisdictions. this is very important and this list also has to include the british dependent territories that provide a nice place for money to be hidden from taxation. moreover, not only is the list necessary, but so are the sanctions on all those territories that do not cooperate with us and will still continue these practices. i thank the journalists for uncovering this scandal, but the main task is for tax authorities, and we have called on the member states to increase efforts to finish and stop these unlawful practices. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr bayet, we have supported all the amendments and all the provisions that, in our opinion, will lead to an improvement in the whole situation. we are against tax evasion, we are against money laundering, and we are in favour of solutions that will make the whole system more efficient and more effective. however, not all the amendments submitted by you go in the same direction. that is why we have not agreed on everything but, on balance, we are in favour of a much stronger fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering.
mr. chairman, please! here mrs garcía pérez has done an outrageous thing, namely, she has spoken out against the freedom of speech which is the foundation of the european union. i ask the bureau to take a stand on such outrageous statements.
we are talking about a very important subject, namely road safety in the european union. it is important because it affects virtually all citizens of the member states, and the safety consequences are horrendous: over 25 000 deaths per year, over 140 000 people seriously injured, of which 43% of the victims are pedestrians and cyclists. we must therefore take very important and effective action on three fronts: the first concerns people, the second concerns infrastructure and the third, of course, concerns the vehicles themselves, especially since three quarters of the vehicles on the roads of the european union have no driver assistance systems. this is a big challenge for the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report because the authors of the report seem to think that drivers are idiots who want to kill people and get killed, which is not true. but there is one thing that is very troubling, and that is that the death penalty is a very effective means of punishing people, and that is why drivers break various laws, but they never, or almost never, enforce the priority, because they are punishable by death on the spot. well, there's one danger that this report doesn't mention, and that's the introduction of autonomous vehicles. if autonomous vehicles are introduced, the driver of that vehicle will not be afraid to die. the safety factor is that other drivers are afraid to die, so they don't push for priority. if autonomous vehicles are introduced, then all road safety will be lost. i'll be afraid to drive on that road, and that's not even mentioned in the report, and that's the primary danger. besides, i think the european union must be destroyed.
inland navigation is an important element of the transport system in the european union. up to 6% of goods are transported this way. more importantly, however, the european commission has in recent years placed a strong emphasis on developing the inland waterway sector, partly because of its relatively low environmental impact. however, the commission's plans may be hampered by the problem of a shortage of skilled workers. the average age of inland seafarers is 55 years, and existing regulations make it difficult for them to move between member states, as there is no coherent system for the recognition of qualifications, and the one in place is only for captains and does not cover all rivers. i therefore welcome the commission's legislative proposal. the new directive can improve the situation in the sector, in particular by facilitating the transition of seafarers and fishermen to inland navigation. however, the most important element is the establishment of a harmonised examination system, which will give qualifications recognised in all member states. inland navigation is a very important subject in my region. i hope that this directive will be implemented appropriately by the member states and will significantly improve the supply of skilled workers on the labour market.
mr. chairman, please! consumer protection is one of the biggest challenges in the single market being built in the european union, not least because the market of 28 countries today (we will see what the number will be in the future) is a market that certainly creates a lot of pathologies. one of the biggest problems is the digital market. the european consumer centre is the main source of complaints from consumers, with 68% of those who contact it complaining about e-commerce. that is why we need more cooperation and interaction between all consumer protection authorities in the member states in the european union. it is a great task, and that is why i support today's report.
mr. chairman, please! mr. polčák is in first place, which is why i thought he would be the first to perform. demographic change is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union and its member states. the declining working age population is weakening the potential of our economy and could contribute to the collapse of pension systems in the near future. most experts believe that the appropriate solution to the problem can be prepared primarily at the regional level, mainly because of the diverse sources of demographic change that exist. i am therefore very pleased that the european parliament's committee on regional development has produced a report recommending action at eu and member state level, which i was pleased to support in the vote. i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to a programme in my home region, the province of opole. the demographic situation in my region is one of the most difficult in the union. to tackle the problem in a comprehensive way, a special demographic zone programme was created. the adopted programme consists of four packages covering employment, education, pre-school care and the elderly. the programme is a good example of the use of cohesion policy instruments by regional authorities to counter negative demographic change. i am convinced that the experience of my home region can be helpful in future attempts to use eu funds to combat depopulation in other areas of europe.
mr. chairman, please! europe is ageing, the productive population is expected to fall from 66% to 56% by 2080, while the population over 65 is expected to increase from 19% to 29%. so the relationship between people who are working and those who are not will change dramatically. from today's four-to-one ratio, it's going to be reduced to two-to-one. despite these alarming prospects, the european union does not seem to have a comprehensive european strategy to tackle demographic problems. this seems to be one of the greatest challenges of this century and we should tackle it now, today, inter alia, by using the financial instruments of the european union with its full range of funds, including the cohesion fund.
madam president! accusations of corruption, unfair business practices and tax havens by the maltese elite are not new - just remember the case of john dalli, the former health commissioner, which shocked brussels in 2012. it is also significant that once again this year we are discussing the rule of law in malta here in parliament. we have done this before in the context of the panama papers and the controversial maltese citizenship sale programme. it is increasingly being said that malta's lax financial regulations have turned it into a country of organized crime. i would therefore like to ask mr timmermans, whose concern for the rule of law is well known in poland, how is it that you were not able to see before, until this terrible murder, that malta may not be the best with the rule of law? how is it that you are not able to see the problems of fundamental rights in spain, in france, in your country? maybe you've got your priorities wrong. perhaps your attention is selective? or are you a double standard?
madam president, malta is a beautiful country but its government has let it down. we have journalists being assassinated, the press being targeted by a bank at the centre of serious criminal accusations, high government officials implicated in corruption and money laundering, and a police force that defends the government instead of people in the streets calling for justice. all these issues taken together indicate to me a collapse of the rule of law. winning an election does not mean the victorious party can divide up the country and ignore its obligations as an eu member state. malta and poland joined the eu on the same day in 2004. our people share the same values and joined for the same reasons. we – poles and maltese – act in the name of the eu and want the eu to act. the commission should immediately launch a rule—of—law dialogue with the maltese authorities. the maltese authorities should immediately investigate money-laundering activities. the independent international investigation into the killing of daphne caruana galizia is necessary. i will say something about the maltese colleagues who have taken the floor today. i have heard that the socialists in malta have called them traitors. this is unacceptable. they are doing their duty. we stand with them. we stand with malta. (applause)
mr president, i visited malta as part of the committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana) investigation. the reason for our visit was that several names of maltese government high officials appeared in the panama papers and we wanted to get some explanations. unfortunately, we met with a lack of cooperation on the side of maltese government. the prime minister’s chief of cabinet simply refused to meet us. we even asked the prime minister to help us in organising the meeting with mr schembri, with no result, unfortunately. the other minister of mr muscat’s cabinet failed to convince members of the european parliament of his innocence. and then we also met with daphne caruana galizia. she explained to us the situation in the country, and only a few months later she was assassinated. mr president, i think that this strategy should mobilise all of us to make sure that all those responsible are brought to justice and that such a tragedy never happens again.
in taking part in the debate on the preparations for the 11th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation in buenos aires, i would like to stress that agriculture should be at the heart of the declaration to be adopted there. in my view, future eu commitments in the wto should not require changes to the current mechanisms for supporting european farmers and agriculture under the common agricultural policy. these commitments should also leave the necessary margin of manoeuvre for shaping the current cap, also in the future, including the possibility of using instruments currently classified in the so-called amber box, i.e. supporting international trade distortions. european agriculture has so far been effective in ensuring food security for europeans, and it is only the rapid upheavals in some agricultural markets that show us how food prices are shaped when certain products become scarce, as is the case with butter and chicken eggs.
mr. chairman, please! it seems that the rumors of the demise, not to mention the death of the wto, that have emerged in recent years on the wave of the growing popularity of regional agreements, have proved premature. the wto continues to be the most important forum for trade negotiations on a global scale. the agenda for the upcoming 11th wto ministerial conference in buenos aires is dominated by issues related to, among other things, supporting domestic agriculture in the world. it is good that the european commission took a proactive approach to this meeting, although not everyone was satisfied with the joint eu-brazil proposal. the union's primary objective in the area of trade, including agricultural trade, should be to harmonise standards and to remove technical barriers in order to level the playing field on the world market. to this end, developing countries should be assisted, inter alia, in the development of certification systems. at the same time, of course, we must fully safeguard the interests of our agriculture, especially if the negotiating partner is a significant exporter of agricultural products. at the same time, concessions in the agricultural sector cannot be accepted in exchange for advantages in other areas. the european commission has recently published an analysis of the impact of future trade agreements on the agricultural sector in the union. however, this calculation did not take into account the full range of agricultural products and omitted processed products. there is also no reference to non-tariff barriers. therefore, it needs to be supplemented to increase its usefulness. (the president cut the speaker off)
we support a variety of trade agreements that make it easier to buy services, products, but also lower prices. what i would like to stress today is that we should not seek compromises but rather the best possible solutions. the protection of smaller operators is key to these best practices. it's very important to be flexible, to be able to respond quickly to changing markets, especially for trade, for exchange, for internet services. the digital world has changed the world of commerce. what is worrying now is the attitude of the united states towards international agreements. the us market is almost self-sufficient, but individual markets in countries weaker than those in the european union are not as strong.
mr president, the eastern partnership has been a success. it has been an important instrument in building support for democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the countries of our eastern neighbourhood, and it has also been instrumental in supporting the process of reform. but having said that, we also have to admit that the progress along the road of reforms and on the pro-european path has been uneven among the partner countries. in this context, i very much support the recommendations of our parliament, especially of the committee on foreign affairs, to apply the principle of ‘more for more and less for less’ which would simply mean that the european union is ready to respond to more expectations and hopes on the side of countries that are willing and able and ready to be more ambitious on the pro-european path. i think this is an important signal that the european union should send in order to support pro-european tendencies in those countries. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am very much in favour, let me repeat, of the principle of ‘more for more and less for less’. those countries that are willing and display more ambitions to join the european family of nations should be given this possibility and this opportunity. i do not want to close the doors to the european union to anyone. i would never say that any country would in future not be admitted. everything is in the hands of the countries concerned. we should be open to those who are prepared to fulfil the conditions, display the respect for democracy, the rule of law and the principles of the market economy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i could not disagree more. i have never had the idea of the european union as a colonial power, contrary to the uk in history. so i have to insist that it is up to the applicant countries first of all to display this ambition to join the european union and then to fulfil the conditions. nobody forces anyone, any country in europe, to be a member of the european union, but everyone is welcome provided that the conditions are fulfilled.
mr president, russia’s policies create a direct security threat to a majority of our eastern partners. war in ukraine, including the annexation of crimea, borderisation in georgia, and destabilisation in moldova are matters of the utmost international concern. acknowledging the open, inclusive character of the eastern partnership, we have to ensure that countries pursuing aggressive policies, violating international law, are excluded from participation in the project. we have to ensure this by adopting appropriate language in the summit declaration.
mr. chairman, please! starting with the question of freedom, i would like mr. hökmark to compare taxes in russia and taxes in the european union, and then see where there is more freedom, because the numbers decide. but when you go to the eastern partnership, it's very diverse: countries with relatively low levels of corruption, like georgia and belarus, and countries with high levels of corruption, like ukraine and moldova. it is a fact that corruption is a huge problem in these countries. there is a man who has partially curbed corruption in georgia and improved the administration in georgia. this is mr. mikhail saakashvili, who is currently in ukraine. i think it would be good if the union did something to help mr saakashvili, who is fighting against the corruption of the current government in ukraine. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
the eastern partnership is a very important political project, which is crucial for the future of europe's nearest neighbourhood. we have achieved a great deal so far, especially in relations with georgia, moldova, ukraine. the reforms implemented by the governments of these countries must be continued with consistent support from the european institutions and the member states. they also enjoy concrete achievements in their challenging relations with armenia and azerbaijan. i hope that the november summit will bring concrete proposals for closer cooperation in specific areas and provide guarantees of long-term financial support for key projects. realism in this area is more important than big, but unattainable, ambitions in the short term. investment in infrastructure, the building of a professional public administration and the joint fight against disinformation and russian propaganda are the most important areas in which the union can be particularly active today.
madam president! every country has a duty to maintain good relations with friendly neighbors, just as every country has a duty to defend freedom from unfriendly neighbors. the ukrainian authorities should consider that if in this house people who have always defended ukraine's right to independence, to defense and to territorial integrity, today have to protest against the threats posed to minority communities by the school law, if these people are protesting, that is the best sign that there really is a problem to be solved. i call on the ukrainian authorities to supplement the current education act as soon as possible with a provision that minorities whose rights are regulated by bilateral international agreements or agreements with international organizations are exempt from the rigours of this law. ukraine has the right to resist sovietization also in the social sphere, but the fight against sovietization and the consequences of centuries-old contempt for the ukrainian language cannot be at the expense of the indigenous minorities who share the life of the ukrainian nation.
the eastern partnership is clearly in a state of crisis. this crisis may not be very deep, but it's quite extensive. and i say that for two reasons: first, there's a clear divergence in the evaluation of what's been achieved. our partners say we are not doing enough, we think their reforms are not enough and not at the right pace. what worries me, though, is the disproportion between the words and the deeds themselves. i shall begin with a reflection on us as members of the european parliament. today, there were about 50 people in the debate. but recently we had the eastern partnership summit, our summit, or euronest, in kiev. there were only a dozen of us there. i'm worried about this because proper dialogue, proper communication, has to involve physical presence every time. otherwise we will not be able to convince our partners and our activities will not be effective enough.
in writing. the eastern partnership summit is a good opportunity to clearly define the future of our policy towards these neighbours who are fulfilling the obligations of the association agreements. making the eastern partnership more attractive by enabling neighbours to access, inter alia, the customs union, the digital union, the energy union and the schengen area in the future is the right step towards effectively achieving the objectives set out in article 8 of the treaty on european union, which provides that the union shall develop special relations with its neighbouring countries, aiming at creating an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness, based on the union's values and characterised by close and peaceful relations based on cooperation. however, both the deepening of relations within the eastern partnership and, even more so, the prospect of eu membership require significant progress in the process of systemic transformation in our neighbours. the implementation of structural reforms for strong institutions and good governance needs to be pursued consistently. it is also necessary to implement eu values such as respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. we, together with the citizens of these countries, expect a genuine reform of the economic system, aimed at the gradual elimination of monopolies, the reduction of the role of oligarchs and the effective fight against corruption. the level of cooperation should be dependent on the progress in the implementation of reforms. in the event of a rollback of reforms, i am in favour of the union consistently respecting the rules on conditionality, including the possibility of suspending agreements.
in writing. in the context of the upcoming eastern partnership summit in brussels, it is appropriate to summarise and assess the achievements to date. the integration of security elements into the policy towards our eastern partners deserves particular attention. diversification of foreign policy is in the interest of the eastern partnership countries, as well as the eu itself, and can provide greater guarantees of independence. in this context, there is justification for the policy of supporting sovereignty and freedom of foreign policy choice in belarus pursued by the commission and the eeas, despite the fact that little progress has been made towards political liberalisation. the multilateral dimension of the eastern partnership is crucial for countries like belarus. the example of armenia, which joined the eurasian union in 2015 and subsequently signed a 'comprehensive and enhanced partnership' agreement with the eu in 2017, shows that some limited form of diversification is possible. however, greater flexibility in engagement does not mean that the eu should abandon conditionality, as it provides the impetus for the necessary reforms. the eu must focus on enforcing existing commitments and implementing the agreements. finally, we do not always manage to take advantage of the opportunity to communicate the practical benefits of the eastern partnership. where policy is making good progress, we need to speak up.
madam president, this topic is extremely difficult and multi—layered and has a great number of actors involved – often with conflicting interests – but we have struck a balanced deal that, most importantly, provides that the new rules will be country—neutral and in full compliance with the eu’s wto obligations. as you know, we have serious distortions in the key raw materials around the world – natural gas, minerals, rare metals and others – while some adjustments that the european commission has used in the past to reject the distorted cost of raw materials and to replace them with the market values when calculating this normal value were under attack in the wto. with these new rules, we will ensure that the commission has a way to address such distortions, and i am very happy that we have this good compromise and i would like to congratulate mr cicu for a job well done.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. the commission's communication sets out the priorities for relations between the european union and african states in response to the joint communication of the commission and the high representative of may 2017. as the rapporteur and colleagues have already mentioned, the report is based on the need to strengthen the resilience of societies, in particular through actions such as promoting economic development, strengthening good governance and security, and above all respect for human rights and emphasising social and environmental aspects. the report also addresses challenging issues such as migration and mobility, and highlights the role of young people, as well as references to recommendations related to the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda. i hope that the report will be adopted by a large majority on thursday, which will allow the european parliament to present its position clearly ahead of the 5th eu-africa summit in abidjan. it is important that the eu institutions speak with one voice in this area, which is a priority for development policy. the consistency of our position will also be key before and during the negotiations on the new cotonou agreement, which are scheduled to start in september 2018.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, 60% of africans are young people under the age of 25, many leaving in extreme poverty or affected by violent conflicts and natural disasters. we go to abidjan with a firm decision to assist them in providing resilience to their societies and states, to assist in building peace, to bring reconciliation if necessary, and to providing post—conflict reconstruction. we are going to accept strategies that are long term, and we consider it both challenging and a fantastic opportunity.
the european union's cooperation with africa is based on non-symmetrical agreements, and that is very good, because the aim of this cooperation is to support the development of african countries. the two sides are not only looking for growth and economic development, but also for peace and security, social development, democracy and human rights, and continental integration, and since the valletta summit, also the fight against illegal immigration. the new priorities - as we heard in today's debate - include creating new jobs and working towards democratic and transparent public institutions. but in my opinion, the most important priority should be education. first, education, second, education and third, education. because only an enlightened society is aware of its rights and is prepared to fight for them.
on behalf of the ppe group. for the fifth time, the european parliament is reacting to the abuse of power in poland, because that is what this debate is about. i will express my feelings today in the words of my compatriot who committed a desperate act of self-immolation recently in the center of warsaw: "i am ashamed that i have to explain to my friends in the west that poland is not the same as the polish government". the source of this debate is the polish government, abusing the mandate that was won in democratic elections, but it would probably be weaker if people knew that they are not only voting for the widespread distribution of money - which helps the poor but also the country's debt - but also voting for the trampling of the constitutional order, an independent judiciary, and even the cutting down of the last remaining forest in europe, but also the persecution of peaceful demonstrators, as well as the toleration of xenophobia, racism and neo-fascism on our streets. it's all very clear. you can't hide that. there's not going to be some new iron curtain. polish democracy is only thriving in a fictional world created by the media, including the appropriated media, which has become a conduit for government propaganda. but this fictional world ends where the daily brainwashing ends. in fact, no government has ever so quickly ruined its own country's international standing, so quickly and so painfully compromised its own country on the international stage. and this is poland, which we could be very proud of as the collective work of poles, reaching for the highest positions in the european union, the largest funds, influence, moving their ideas to european union programmes like the eastern partnership, the energy union. the question is the future of polish women and poles, and it's not just about respect, image, money and influence, but about security. the isolation of poland today, the self-exclusion of poland, is completely contrary to the polish reason of the state, to the lesson that history has given us. because it's like someone asking for the curse of polish destiny, the curse of polish geopolitics, to return. a free and democratic poland has friends in a free and democratic european community, not in turkey or belarus. the free world, the democratic world, is looking to poland as a member of its own family, looking to the principles that hold the wisdom of trial and error. wisdom on how to organize a free society, to protect civil liberties from dictatorship, how to organize a good economy that thinks about the next generation. these are the principles enshrined in our constitution and the eu treaties. those who break them, they take away people's freedom at first, but they can also take away people's future in the end. the current ruling camp is somewhat uncomfortable when we remember how it behaved when it was in opposition, how willingly it initiated various hearings, hearings, here in the european parliament, which have no meaning whatsoever, because they were unreliable and based on falsehoods. but then the current pis mp of the ruling party happily tweeted (it was december 2014): it's good that the opposition organized a public hearing in the european parliament on the threat to democracy (or they initiated it). we are in the union, and so is our parliament. yes, this is our european union, this is our parliament, but we are not happy about these debates because we do not want to be ashamed of those who govern poland. we want to bring back the pride of our country.
blue-card question. – my question to mr pittella is: caro presidente, would it not be better for you to tackle the real problems of your political family, the socialists, and of your caro amico the prime minister of malta, mr muscat, rather than the fictitious problems of poland?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! as a man with a little experience in politics, i thought there was a limit to shamelessness, but after what i heard from my colleague lewandowski, i change my mind: there is no limit to shamelessness. you can fall even lower than you did today, telling me these unheard-of things. i just can't get over the fact that there's really no moral control, that you can say such disgusting, untrue things. this is outrageous! ladies and gentlemen! as for the substantive answer on the reform of the judiciary and the contacts between the polish government and the european commission, i sent it to you in the mail. you have very detailed, accurate information on this. if any of you want to argue with me about this, i'm open to it. but here, in this room, as in these previous episodes, there is really no dialogue. this is not a debate. well, let's not kid ourselves, this is another orwellian session. this is a show of force against the poles and the polish government. this isn't about the rule of law. it's not about value, it's about power, right, who has the power. this is another version of the same thing. after all, a few hours or a dozen hours after the announcement of the draft laws on the judiciary, colleague weber and other meps have already launched a pan-european, anti-polish campaign. mr. weber doesn't know polish. he didn't know the laws. he didn't know any experts. he wasn't interested at all, but he already knew. it's been a few hours and we have to unleash this wave, this new crusade against the polish government. and that's what the socialists did, that's what the liberals did. is this an invitation to debate? this is not an invitation to debate. let's not kid ourselves. you have some kind of obsession, some kind of persistent obsession, with the polish government, don't you? you guys were obviously going back to it. (laughter) come on, people, have mercy. this is also an example of the unprecedented arrogance that is prevalent among the political elite in western europe, not to mention the media. well, the german media. i don't know what to call what it says about poland. it's some kind of anti-polish orgy, and to put it simply, a farce. these are complete dicks. it's such a niagara of lies that instead of six and a half minutes, i'd have to have six and a half months to straighten it all out. well, i'm not in a position to do that. or the barbaric behavior of the german minister of defense. just as, without allying, soviet diplomats once did, admittedly, declare themselves with the help of their friends in satellite countries. or president macron's comments about poland and other eastern european countries. it's like a... i see it as one of those old colonial habits that's coming back here. and this eastern europe is suddenly daring to do something, right, to decide for itself, well, unprecedented, without our knowledge. please note that the process of empowerment in eastern europe is under way and that you, i don't know what you have done or not done here in the face of this, it will continue. as far as the commission is concerned, mr president, i have said practically everything in the previous debates. don't tell me you represent the law, that you represent values. all these actions of the commission against poland are illegal actions that violate the european treaties. and the fact that these actions are being pinned here in parliament doesn't make them any less illegal. you're in the majority. you can vote anything you want, even if two plus two is five. but the truth is, these are illegal activities. these are also - i have already spoken about this many times - these are the double standards that are inherent in poland associated with your name. you're a party to an internal conflict in poland and you're not hiding it, are you? when bad things happened in poland, you were silent. when bad things happened in spain, you spoke in a way that nobody knew what you were talking about. if one tenth of what happened in spain happened in poland now, you'd be saint george fighting the dragon. (laughter) the commission, unfortunately, has this bad habit of just ignoring all the answers from the polish government and repeating the same thing over and over again. the commission calls this a dialogue or an invitation to talk. mr. chairman, this is not a dialogue. this is not an invitation to talk. there's a term that fits that. this is an ultimatum. you say, "it has to be done", and if it's not done, you'll be punished. it is more of a dialogue, is it not, commission style. this is what shakespeare called the insolence of office, isn't it? it's the impertinence of office or the impertinence of power. you can do anything. you think you can say anything and order anything. (applause) please, please, please! it's not really going to hurt poland. we've dealt with bigger problems. it's bad for the union. it means that if you took all the anti-eu diatribes that have been heard in this house, they would do less damage to the image of the union than your speech. i mean, you've done more to destroy the image of the european union than nigel farage and marine le pen combined. (applause) the speaker has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to say that the way to avoid this kind of debate is not to destroy the constitutional court, not to undermine the independence of the judiciary, the ordinary courts and not to implement the orders of the court of justice. so my question to mr legutki is: do you see the european union as a cash cow from which only money can be squeezed, or rather as a community of law in which we share the same civilized, western values?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. no, we do not treat the european union as a dairy cow. i don't know what else i can say. as for the tribunal, i remind you that you and your party wanted to take over the tribunal and put all your nominees, 14 or 15 members, but mr timmermans didn't notice it at the time. - i know. if your political friends are doing scandalous things, you don't see it. you missed it. i didn't hear you. did you say anything about that? you didn't say. you may smile, yes, mockingly and condescendingly, but you have not said.
..with the unacceptable allusion to the auschwitz camp, which has once again fallen from the lips of mr verhofstadt, i ask the bureau of our parliament to deal with his remarks. this hate speech has to stop. thank you so much!
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! let's get some facts straight. first, this parliament has absolutely no right to judge the actions of the sovereign polish state. why would you do that? because on the one hand, we have the european parliament, which is a little bit of a spigot. it's some kind of european joke. on the other hand, we have the polish state, which is over a thousand years old. poland will still exist long after the whole history of the european union has turned into one tiny paragraph in a huge textbook for the history of stupid political doctrines. secondly, this whole debate was inspired by some polish-speaking politicians to cover up their political problems in poland, to cover up their re-privatization affairs, the memory of their failed governments and the current lack of any idea for poland. these polish-speaking politicians were too focused on the partisanship of treason, on rzew, szczesny potocki, and they froze to rule poland at the mercy of the masters of brussels or berlin. thirdly, this parliament is climbing to the heights of hypocrisy and hypocrisy with today's debate. so everything is fine in spain, where there are riots, where there are over 700 wounded, where there are political prisoners. so everything is fine in germany, where political censorship is rampant. so everything is fine in belgium, where the army has to patrol the streets for fear of islamic terrorists. but it's not right in poland, where a legally elected government is fulfilling its election promises. hypocrisy, hypocrisy and falsehood, that's what this debate is about. ladies and gentlemen! a few days ago, on november 11th, we celebrated the anniversary of poland's independence. we have regained our freedom thanks to the titanic work of wise polish politicians and the high national consciousness of our society. for a change, during world war ii, poland lost its independence to the policies of england and france. i am a messenger of freedom and like every pole i know that we don't need eu advice, instructions and criticism. you two mind your own business and stop compromising yourselves here. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to the hospital. i'm not a fan of this government. i'm afraid that's not the right question. i am opposed to this government, and i am opposed above all to the values of the european union, which are completely different from european values. i disagree with the bureaucratic approach of the european union officials who are trying to interfere in the activities of the sovereign polish state.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! we poles remember well the time when decisions about what we poles were allowed and what we were not allowed to do were made in moscow. in moscow, the limits of our political freedom and sovereignty have been set. a lot has changed now, but what has changed for us poles is that the borders of our political freedom are now determined by brussels and strasbourg. we know that the rape of nations and states ended with the death of the union of soviet socialist republics. and the same course of interference with the political freedom of nations and states will end in the death of the union of the european socialist republics. and there will be no regrets. free and secure citizens in free and secure countries - that should be our goal. a few hundred years ago, there was a whipping boy at the european courts, a position. you made a beating boy out of poland today. i'll say what the polish street says: hands off poland! (laughter)
i want to start this appeal to the union by making it clear that i have no intention of governing the pis government. as a right-wing man, i'm their sworn enemy. the poles only support the law and justice because the previous governments were even worse. and the problem is that the union is perceived as a supporter of the previous governments. that's why the attacks of mr. timmermans and others are increasing the popularity of the pis. especially since the poles don't like it when someone meddles in their affairs. many of the arguments used by the union are correct, but many are absurd. this is because you don't know the situation in poland, and you get information from people who see things not as they are, but as they would like them to be. so they're misleading you. in addition, your demands are contrary to the feelings of most poles. you are demanding rights for homosexuals support for pis is growing. you're demanding some stupid women's rights, you're talking about some gender support for pis is growing. you accuse the law and justice party of nationalism (that's not true: the law and justice party is a sanation, nationalists are the enemies of the law and justice party) support for the law and justice party is growing. in other words, you're interfering with our fight against this disgusting government, so please stand down. and besides, i think the european union has to be destroyed.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i was talking about the absurd rights of women. you have a claim that women in poland have a privilege, that they can or do not have to retire early. and you think it's a violation of women's rights because it's an equal rights violation. but you talk about women 50 times more than men, so women's equality is violated here. - yes or no? so i don't understand what's going on here. no women's rights are violated in poland. no, it's the opposite. for example, more women work -- if you're interested -- for their own companies than in the west. i'm not a big fan of that, but it's true. what's the matter with you?
mr. chairman, please! we're debating poland as a state of law. we do this among friends, among family, in our european family, not among enemies. there was us with us, and there was us without us in the past. the essence of the debate is the respect of the law in poland, an important country with its identity, culture, historical merits. poles have always wanted to be in europe and they still want to be here in europe. the union gives us poles a sense of political, social and economic security. european values and law are our values and we want to protect them too. that is why we, leftists, are concerned, firstly, with the takeover of the judiciary by one party; secondly, with attempts to limit the dignity and rights of women; thirdly, with the application of collective responsibility, of which the extreme example is the withdrawal of pensions from officers and soldiers; fourthly, with the denial of the historical merits of many organizations and soldiers fighting fascism both in poland and in europe. tensions are rising between the commission and the government. we call on the commission to step back! we call on the government to take two steps back! poland and its citizens cannot pay for this dispute.
mr. chairman, please! in the face of the real problems of corruption and the breakdown of the rule of law in malta, you, commissioner timmermans, are silent and do not initiate proceedings. or is it because it's the government of your political socialist family? you had no inhibitions to launch a barrage of false accusations against poland, writing word for word, copy paste, false accusations of the polish total opposition defending the pathology of past governments and the remnants of communism. i call it the timmermans paradox: first, to remain silent about corruption within one's own socialist family; second, to attack those who, having a democratic mandate, are really fighting corruption by reforming the sick, pathologically burdened judicial system in poland, unreformed since the days of communism, unprotected, burdened by links to the warsaw octopus; third, to stand on the side of those who want to protect and preserve the pathology of the polish judicial system. it's a reverse hierarchy of values, all right. it is a profound misunderstanding that in poland the rehabilitation of a sick state and the justice system is being carried out. this is the completion of the unfinished solidarity revolution, 25 years too late, not a violation of the principles of democracy and the rule of law. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i would like to appeal from this place, from the european parliament, to the law and justice government: you are a government that exceeds its electoral promises. you used the slogan "poland in ruins" in your campaign. poles in 2015, during the election period, proud of the great development of the country, did not understand these slogans. today everything is clear. the path the government is taking appropriating the law by politicians, taking away the freedom of poles, taking away the rights of polish women, taking away the common courts from citizens, destroying schools, disrespecting young doctors, letting in on the most important day for poles independence day extreme nationalists from different countries with radical slogans, calling this extreme nationalist demonstration by government members a beautiful view, a joyful holiday is the path fulfilling the promise of bringing poland to ruin. even those less than 19% of eligible voters in poland, voting for pis, did not vote for such a poland. don't make this trip for us today! don't be afraid to give up on this path. we have a smart society where we can make smart policies responsibly. it's time to do it.
in writing. i wasn't in the room during the next debate about my country. i didn't want to be a part of a hateful, unsubstantiated spectacle. mr verhofstadt's statement only confirmed the correctness of that decision. at that time, i decided to lay flowers at kl natzweiler, a german concentration camp near strasbourg in occupied france. over 50,000 prisoners were held in the camp and its surrounding camps, and over 22,000 died. among the prisoners, from 30 nations, the largest group were poles, including jews (13,606 prisoners). the museum was burned down by the neo-nazis after the war. although france had a collaborationist vichy government during world war ii, no one tries to attribute the french to the holocaust, as is easily done with poland. such "accidental" mistakes simply do not happen in the modern world. i pay tribute to the victims of the kl natzweiler concentration camp, which was one of thousands of units in the planned and consistently implemented by nazi germany industry of extermination. the news of medical experiments being conducted here must shock any sensitive person. the poles were victims of nazi germany, they fought against german and soviet occupation. they never formed a collaborative government. the polish underground state sentenced to death anyone who handed over a jew to the germans. i find verhovstadt's allusion to the holocaust in auschwitz as being linked to poland to be despicable.
in writing. the functioning of the rule of law in poland is not only a question of the mechanisms of the functioning of the law in the last 2 years, to which the ec refers; this is an internal problem of legal institutions and only practice can show whether there has been a violation of conventional rights and what needs to be corrected in these mechanisms. the important question is: have previous legal solutions not violated the european convention on human rights? i say, "yes, it was". here are some examples: 1) polish law does not guarantee a minimum standard of protection for individuals evicted from their occupied property. the sale of the premises together with the tenants in poland leads to a real violation of fundamental human rights; 2) polish law tolerates the deprivation of citizens of the republic of poland of acquired rights regarding pension rights, which recently concerns officers of uniformed services, mainly those who have completed service in the prl. this also applies to those on disability pensions. the principle of collective responsibility for the so-called "community", i.e. for having lived in those times and served the state honestly, is applied to them; 3) for years the polish penal code on prisoners has not guaranteed them a humane area of punishment of at least 4 m2, as it often amounts to 2 m2. i will support the resolution, provided that the threat of economic sanctions against poland contained in it is rejected by the ep.
in writing. the european parliament wants to apply article 7 of the treaty on european union, which provides for disciplinary measures, to poland. the accusation by frans timmermans of breaking the rule of law in poland is met with my strong opposition. it is an anti-polish, european campaign aimed at destabilizing and harassing the law and justice government, which does not fit into the left-liberal trend. that's why we're being persecuted. it is a form of european dictatorship. the situation in which the european commission is prepared to expect a sovereign government to ignore the will of the electorate and to submit to its expectations leads to a distortion of the principles of democracy. this is not really about poland and the state of polish democracy, but only about supporting the polish opposition, which scandalously tarnishes the image of poland and poles. i cannot agree with that and i will definitely vote against this resolution.
the buenos aires conference could be a watershed event. maybe, but of course he doesn't have to. the key is the position of the united states on the negotiated agreements, and as we know today, that is not a position that interests us. i would like to draw attention to two elements. the long-term perspective we are using is a good sign of well-deployed responsibility, but unfortunately with the very fast changing conditions of trade, when we also launch the possibility of selling digitally, via the internet, we have to keep in mind the need to maintain far-reaching elements of flexibility so that the rigidity of agreements does not block, especially the development of trade, the development of exchanges within the framework of new technologies.
madam president! i was pretty critical yesterday. i pointed out in the debate that we have too much of a gap between words and deeds, especially as regards the direct involvement of meps in these agreements, in these talks or in these negotiations, in which votes take place and which are, i stress, crucial for us. this was the case in kiev during the euronest meeting. today, i'd like to take this opportunity to note one very important fact. the two amendments, which were not very fortunate, were rejected by a fairly large majority, over 500 meps, and we adopted these guidelines, which are crucial for the eastern partnership summit which is about to begin. i want to make that point again. from my point of view, this is very, very important.
madam president! it is very good that when we think of europe, we look to georgia, to armenia, to the countries where our civilization was often born. it is good that when we think of europe, we remember the nations of eastern europe. the question is, are we really dealing with solidarity? if we look at the text of our resolution today, what do we see? it is true that it talks about non-discrimination, about minorities, but when we look deeper, in the text - although it is explicitly mentioned, for example, about minorities - there is no word about national identity, nor is there a word about language rights, school rights. although it's a very topical topic today and many colleagues have spoken about it. there is no mention of communism or the need to get rid of totalitarianism. in fact, if we respect these nations, we should be interested in their values, because unfortunately we are exporting our decadence to them.
madam president! i voted against the resolution, as did most poles who support the activities of a democratically elected government. it is thanks to people who love their homeland and were not forced to emigrate that a government was elected that is trying to reform practically all areas of life, including the judiciary, which was created during the communist regime in the prl, which is not liked by the opposition, which never had such support, and the european commission which appeals to respect for human dignity, democracy, equality, the rule of law, human rights, tolerance and justice. support for this constantly harassed and criticized, and even threatened with withdrawal of government funds, is growing, so poles are asking themselves whether this is not rather about persecution and hatred of the catholic identity of the polish people, constantly subjected to neighboring totalitarianisms, who hoped to enter the union as a homeland europe.
madam president! the position adopted by the european parliament is not against the polish government, it is against poland and polish society, against concrete initiatives of civil society. if this parliament votes with more than 400 votes against the initiative "stop abortion" in defence of the right to disabled children to be born, if tens of thousands of participants in the march for independence under the pretext of a few statements condemned by the president, by the leaders of political parties and even by the youth organizing the march, if under this pretext tens of thousands of participants in the march and polish society are accused of fascism, then we are really dealing with a scandal. unfortunately, this resolution fits perfectly into this grim century of the bolshevik revolution. fortunately, we have a little tolerance and we do not blame the leadership of the european parliament for the fact that a few communists have put on an exhibition of 'great october' at the parliament's headquarters in brussels.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i pay tribute to the victims of communism, over a hundred million people worldwide. i bow to the heroism of my countrymen who, after gaining independence, fought the bolshevik storm and saved all of europe. i bow before the heroes of katyn, ostashkowa, miednoje, the murdered polish officers, the polish underground state, the cursed soldiers, the heroic polish peasants, the bulwark of patriotism and tradition, the victims of december 1970 and the martial law. their sacrifice is remembered. i'll pay tribute to their memory.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! our evaluation of the bolshevik revolution in russia is burdened with a certain cognitive error, and this error is influenced by leftist propaganda. the leftist propaganda is trying to convince us that the bolsheviks' aims were right, but their methods were brutal and inhumane. in the meantime, we need to think about these goals. propaganda wants us to believe that power that kills and steals is bad power, and that power that only steals and does not kill is good power. and that's not true. it's also bad government. we have to think about what the real goals of the communists were, the introduction of communism, the introduction of collective ownership, was their goal and the goal of communists has always been. people have been deprived of the fruits of their labor, called it some kind of collective property, some kind of common property, the property of all. this was done, of course, by barbaric methods, but let us also consider the purpose. because look at europe as it is today. there are no concentration camps here. there's no mass murder going on here. there's no mass terror, but the level of surveillance of citizens, the level of control of power over citizens, the level of fiscal repression clearly shows how much we're forced to work for our overseers. the vast majority of the wealth of the european nations is in the hands of bureaucratic overseers. so communism - this communist idea - is celebrating its great triumphs here and it's got to be shouted. we need to talk about it, and not be silent, but boldly say that we need freedom of ownership and justice. if europe is not to die under the blows of common ownership, then we must renounce it. we must be a continent where free and wealthy citizens live in free and secure countries. that's what i'm calling for!
mr. chairman, please! a hundred years since the bolshevik revolution, there have been a hundred million deaths and tens of millions of political prisoners around the world. communism has always and everywhere, on every continent, been imposed by force, but under the lofty banners of equality, justice, universality or the abolition of classes. but in practice it always meant the same thing: unlimited terror, because communism is the dictatorship of the individual, it is the political monopoly of the communist party, it is the liquidation of civil society, it is the subordination of all circles, social groups or ngos to the power, it is the prohibition not only of action, but even of thinking differently from what is ordered by the authorities. that's why i think that communism, as an ideology harmful to the individual, as well as to the social fabric, should be banned.
mr. chairman, please! a hundred million dead. the terror is unimaginable. we have rightly paid tribute to the victims of communism today. but i would like to draw attention to another aspect of communism. well, the constituent element of communism was a lie, a lie that was carried to unimaginable proportions. the very name bolshevik is a lie. but they lied about everything: history, economics, biology (miczurin), science - everywhere, everywhere, they always lied. they were reversing the meaning of words, reversing the meaning of concepts that are culturally embedded in our european culture. and is it not the same today? let's look at ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, let's look at the debates that we're having here, the debate that was held today about poland. where were the facts? well, there were no facts. it's about reversing the meaning of words, and that reverses the direction of human development. and let's take that lesson for ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, from this ugly... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! in 1917, the bolsheviks came to power, promising to fight exploitation, to fight gender equality, to fight nationalism, to fight racism, to fight free association instead of marriage, to overthrow the monarchy, to establish democracy, which is exactly what the european union promises. in 1920, the poles stopped these madmen from taking over europe. what's today? i have to see the bolshevik altiero spinelli in brussels today. i must see that on the stamps of the belgian post lenin is the most outstanding personality of the 20th century. i see mr. timmermans in the room, and 95% of the people in the room are either socialists or communists or christian socialists or national socialists and other fascists and other reds. - you did? not just here. in the u.s.a., bernie sanders, after all, is trotsky, who almost became president of the united states. meanwhile, in russia, the stalinists slaughtered the bolsheviks, and then they slowly, slowly, slowly, moved away from bolshevism. and today mr. putin would have removed bolshevism altogether, if it weren't for the fact that he lost to zyuganov, because that's where democracy is, and that's why you hate him. (the president cut the speaker off)
deception, lies, bloodshed, dictatorship are justified if they enable the proletariat to rule. marxist politics is dictatorial and totalitarian in its form. these words were not written by a reactionary enemy of marxism and communism, but by its progressive defender maurice merleau-ponty, a distinguished, subtle french philosopher, because on this side of the iron curtain, behind which president timmermans was fortunate to live, there were communists, there were supporters of communism, there were strong communist parties. and i think it is a little inappropriate that you should refer to semprún, who was also a long-time member of the spanish communist party, on this occasion. violence, terror, mass executions were written into the very core of marxist doctrine. and wherever they've tried to bring life to them, there are mass graves. so i think this anniversary should be an occasion for many members of this parliament who were members of the communist party to examine their consciences and make amends.
i'll remind you again. we're not using the blue card because of the nature of this discussion. at the same time, a heartfelt request: let's not use the phrase "european bolshevik" because it will not deepen the quality of our discussion.
mr. chairman, mr. first vice chairman of the commission! fellow workers! i would very much like this debate to be a breakthrough and that there should never again be situations such as the rejection by this parliament of a request for a debate to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the yalta treason and the condemnation of half the peoples of europe to live under soviet domination. back then, our 40% of the house that voted to talk about this didn't save any minority rights. high isbo! communism was born out of hatred of god, of the human stream, of the family, of national traditions. of course, communism also grew out of a contempt for the ordinary lives of people. that's why the peasants in tambov had to rebel against him. that's why our grandfathers saved the world in 1920. that's why millions of ukrainians starved. and today the nationalist populist is that leninist goon, the bloodsucker, who scares people. you really need to wake up, because you've heard how many people still justify the evils of communism. and unfortunately, mr. first vice president, the lord did not direct his hand and his message to them.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, we are not a gathering of historians. we look at history because we are politicians and we want to learn from history. it is quite a miracle that we are now in a hemicycle with the directly elected representatives of 500 million europeans who were never this close to each other at any time in our history. it is a miracle. this place is a miracle. if we revisit our history, we do it for our own benefit, but especially for the benefit of our children so that we do not make the mistakes of the past again. so i would say just in conclusion: how did we get, in the 20th century, into this totalitarian quagmire that cost hundreds of millions of europeans their lives through repression and through war? how did we get there? totalitarian regimes do not just fall from the sky. the ground is prepared for them. that is what we see. what are the lessons i draw today? just a few thoughts, and i will end on that. if politicians claim that they, and only they, represent the will of the people, if they brand anyone who disagrees with them as enemies of the people, if politicians try to limit, or even abolish, the freedom of the media, if they believe they have the right to instruct and control judges, if they constantly look for internal and external enemies who they then turn into scapegoats when they themselves fail miserably in delivering the illusions they peddled to the people – always jews at the receiving end of this, always roma at the receiving end of this, always minorities at the receiving end of this – if you see all of this happening, please be vigilant. if you see that happen, please do not look away. we are duty bound to speak up and to act so that the victims of totalitarian regimes have not died in vain. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you all for this enlightening debate today. to paraphrase former estonian president lennart meri: ‘they say that bolshevism is dead but has anybody seen its dead body?’ this discussion today shows again that the search for it still continues. we conduct this search best by education, by developing democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance and of course, by staying vigilant.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on the decision on the second mobility package.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, coming back from the cop23 summit in bonn, i can testify to the fact that the global community is reassured by the eu’s leadership and welcomes our reformed emissions-trading scheme and this mobility package proposal. the clean mobility package is about europe’s political leadership in climate action and industrial leadership in clean and smart mobility. as i have often said in the past, the leading economy of the 21st century will be the one that leads the transition to clean energy. right now, when it comes to clean mobility, we have to admit we are lagging behind. only 1% of the new cars sold within the european union are electric. for comparison, china expects to reach 20% by 2020, and this is the equivalent of 4.5 million electric cars per year. the car was invented in europe, so it should be reinvented here as well, and our ambition should be simple: that the best and the cleanest cars are manufactured here, and that they are driven on the most advanced infrastructure. today’s proposal is an opportunity for europe’s industry to achieve just that. how? first, we set new emissions standards for cars and vans that are 30% lower in 2030 than in 2021, with an intermediary target in 2025, so that no time is wasted. these targets are highly ambitious, but not disruptive. there is sufficient time for the industry to invest in cleaner technologies and for the employees to transition their skills. we will also ensure implementation through rigorous testing and controls. second, we increased our support for the roll-out of alternative fuel infrastructure with a eur 800 million action plan, and the bulk of the money comes from europe’s carbon market, whose reform has now been adopted. this roll-out must be inclusive across the continent: no region, no consumer should be left behind. and third, we set public procurement rules for new vehicles. together with these key measures, the commission proposes improving the organisation of transport systems and to support the roll-out of both alternative fuel infrastructure and clean vehicles. violeta bulc will elaborate on this in a moment. finally, we gave a strong push for the development of advanced battery technologies here in europe. the demand for batteries is about to spike all around the world and create a gigantic market worth eur 250 billion in europe alone by 2025. so this is our chance to capture this market in a sustainable way. we want to be leaders in green batteries. this means clean production, sustainable and responsible mining of raw materials, recycling and reusing. last month i launched the eu battery alliance with industry and interested member states in order to develop strong manufacturing capacity here in europe and regain competitiveness throughout the value chain. the european parliament and its members have an important role to play, so i would like to invite interested meps to support this strategic initiative, perhaps by forming the friends of battery group with us. with this package, we are sending a clear signal to the industry and investors, to public authorities and to consumers. it is also sending a message to our global partners about our ambition and continued commitment to lead in the fight against climate change. let me conclude by saying that this is a package that has only winners. drivers will save thousands of euros in fuel and maintenance costs. we will see 70 000 new jobs of the future created in europe. investors will benefit from lucrative new opportunities, and eu car companies will be able to retain their global market share and regain consumers’ trust. we will benefit from lower dependency on external energy providers, and we will all start breathing clean air once again, saving thousands of lives which are currently lost to pollution-related diseases. the proposals are now on your table, and we hope that, together with the member states, you can adopt this swiftly so that we can continue to demonstrate this global leadership. mr president, if you allow me, i will now give the floor to my colleague commissioner bulc.
member of the commission. – mr president, transport is crucial for our economy and for our citizens. it employs more than 11 million europeans and generates five percent of europe’s gdp. but, as vice—president šefčovič has just underlined, transport also has negative impacts on climate and air quality, which require robust reforms. today transport accounts for a quarter of all european greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, transport contributes to air pollution, which causes the premature death of 400 000 europeans every year. that is why we are taking unprecedented actions in response to this ever—growing challenge. we are reconciling the mobility needs of europeans with the protection of our planet. today we are addressing all dimensions of the challenge in a comprehensive, coherent and synchronised way. after the first wave of our mobility package, presented in may, we put forward a second set of measures to accelerate the transition to low emission mobility. we are delivering on all three pillars in our low emission mobility strategy: first, improving the organisation of our transport systems; second, promoting cleaner vehicles; and, third, making alternative energy more accessible for transport. let me address these three areas in a little more detail. first, a more efficient transport system. we strongly believe that we can significantly decrease transport emissions by further integrating the different modes of transport. for freight, we propose to revise the existing european rules on combined transport to provide further incentives to shift long—distance freight from road to rail, but also to inland waterways and short sea shipping. for passengers, our goal is to support the development of long—distance bus and coach connections throughout europe. citizens should have access to more public transport, with more affordable and better quality services. decarbonising transport implies offering passengers alternative solutions to the use of private cars. the second area is cleaner vehicles. a key element of the package is the proposal for new co2 standards for cars and vans post—2020. vice—president šefčovič has already presented this but i would like to underline now that, besides the supply/manufacturer side of this problem, in this package we are also addressing the demand side. public authorities can – and are ready to – make a strong contribution to the market uptake of low and zero-emission vehicles. so we want to make it easier for cities and local authorities to purchase, rent and lease those vehicles for their provision of public transport services or for other public use. to provide more certainty in their visibility to the market, we propose to set minimum public procurement targets at national level, which will also generate predictable demand for european industry. that brings me to the third area, alternative energy. consumers must have confidence that they will be able to use alternatively powered vehicles throughout europe. for most, after a home, their car remains the second biggest item of expenditure so it must work in all conditions and everywhere. charging an electric car along european motorways has to be as easy as filling up at the petrol station. we are therefore proposing an action plan to speed up deployment of charging points. investment in clean transport is crucial for this to work. as part of this plan, we are now investing another eur 800 million from the eu budget to roll out additional alternative fuels infrastructure. in addition, we propose new standards for plug interoperability, the same standard throughout europe. there is no single magic solution. this is why in today’s package we are combining different legislative and financial tools to maximise the impact of our measures and deploy cleaner transport sooner rather than later. the range of measures announced today means that transport will continue to play its part in tackling climate change.
before i turn the floor over to the next speaker, i'd like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a very full gallery. it means that the topic is important and that our visitors simply want to sit in the gallery and listen to the debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. i'm not going to let you get away with this. road transport is receiving particular attention from the european commission during this term. we haven't even started the first part of the mobility package yet, and we've already got the second part. it takes time to change consumer habits or to convince manufacturers to switch to electric cars. a system of incentives for manufacturers of low-emission cars and investments in infrastructure to charge these vehicles are needed. only then will they not be a curiosity, but a conscious choice. i feel that the objectives are very well defined in this proposal, but the timetable for achieving them set by the commission is already extremely ambitious and will be a problem in achieving real progress on green mobility in the near future. the announcement of the revision of the combined transport directive and the passenger coach directive is to be regarded positively. however, i wonder whether, in the context of our experience with the social part of the mobility package, it will be possible to look at these rules objectively. i hope that this time the promises of opening up the market and making it easier for transport companies to operate across borders are not hidden behind protectionism and a desire to further divide europe into east and west.
mr. chairman, please! looking at air pollution, especially in large european cities, and the costs that this entails, especially in health, i think there is no doubt that there is a need for smart, clean energy mobility. and i agree with those who say that we should not just focus on electric propulsion, but also look for other alternative propulsion and innovative solutions to enable us to move away from combustion engines. as we all know, transport is on the one hand pollution, co2 emissions, but on the other hand it is hundreds of thousands of jobs. i think the commissioner therefore takes into account the importance of the pace of change in order to enable european companies to re-skill and adapt to new challenges. we also need to remember that we need to invest in the infrastructure for charging cars, which is very scarce today, and we need to invest in the energy grid to cope with the increased load. and we must also remember, commissioner, that if we want to achieve the objective we have set ourselves, electric cars, for example, must be within the financial reach of consumers, if we do not want the european market to be flooded by cheap chinese electric cars. and what's important in all of this is that this whole decarbonization process becomes an opportunity, not a fight for survival, for european car companies. that's something we all have to consider.
mr president, mr vice president, commissioner bulc, i would like to thank you for your cooperation with the commission. i just want to say that i'm very pleased that you submitted this document. perhaps it is a bit unfortunate that the first and second package go almost in parallel and sometimes overlap in the debate. what am i building my satisfaction on? firstly, the commissioner in particular has been realistic: yes, transport will be needed, we will have to drive more and more and we will want to be driven more and more. it is inevitable. and yes, it's also important socially, as a quality of life component, but also from a job perspective -- changing technology doesn't have to mean losing jobs. secondly, you referred to a kind of new situation the post-petrol and post-oil era. and i think that this day, and this debate, that maybe this will be such a historic starting point. another note: if there are any percentages, dates, numbers in this document, i immediately come to believe that it will not be true, but the direction you give is exactly what we are talking about. this inspiration to go towards research and development, batteries, engines, intelligent transport systems, energy supply, or a kind of refuelling system, finally the principles of motion, an intelligent system is what can create this quality, the beginning, the momentum. and for that, there's a reward.
in writing. the second part of the mobility package presented by the commission today is an ambitious set of legislative proposals. in principle, the proposals presented are a step in the right direction and can facilitate the transition to low and zero-emission vehicles, which can have positive effects not only for the environment but also for the european industry, which will maintain its competitive position on the global market. however, it should be borne in mind that the introduction of the proposed changes will be a burden not only for the authorities of the member states but also, especially in the case of the revision of the directive on public transport, for local and regional authorities. therefore, in the course of the work on the package, solutions should be sought which avoid burdening local governments with excessive costs and administrative procedures and which retain some flexibility in the choice of measures.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to take this opportunity to thank ms o’reilly for her efforts and for the fact that she and her staff are constantly good to cooperate with, but also for the excellent quality of her work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work: she managed to prepare a very balanced, well-structured report that tackles all the areas of the important work carried out by the european ombudsman. i have been closely monitoring the activities of the european ombudsman from the very beginning, and i greatly appreciated ms o’reilly’s work last year. i say to her: you managed to make the post more visible, and your communication strategies, your ideas have contributed to making this office more citizen—friendly, and i really thank you for that. you have proved to be a very efficient ombudsman, which i also appreciate. you undertake many important initiatives which tackle the current policies of the european union. this annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman serves not only as a summary and approval of the work of the european ombudsman in a given year, but it is also a reminder to us and to all the european institutions to be more service-minded, to be more open-minded regarding our citizens. it is very important to encourage the european commission in its efforts to facilitate access to documents and information, especially with regard to eu pilot procedures. it is very important to provide as much transparency and communication to our citizens as possible, especially because many myths have been created, particularly regarding trade negotiations. however, we have to keep in mind that this transparency should never undermine the negotiating position of the european union – there is a balance there. ms o’reilly, once again, thank you very much for your work, and good luck. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – you tackled a very important point, but i think mr timmermans said it best: this work will never end. we will try something at one point, if it works then will to try to improve it further. but if it does not work, then we will have to change to something else. in our committee, the committee on petitions of this house, we are the closest to the people of european union. as such, we are the best advocate to see how best to improve communication between us, the institutions of european union and european citizens. so, yes, this is an ongoing process, and i believe that only together we can make it better.
mr president, madam speaker, mr president, mr timmermans, i would like to thank you for your support. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs marlene mizzi, on her report, although i must admit that her work was not that complicated because the material defended itself. the way it works and what your spokesman was able to put forward is the subject of a good report. i would like to say that i am perhaps the only person in this room who has a longstanding relationship with the commissioner. we had met earlier with the european parliament's college of quaestors and even dealt with the issues that mr martin was talking about a moment ago, such as the issue of harassment (there is a special committee to deal with complaints of harassment in the european parliament). but the spokeswoman always put the following approach first: we are to serve the citizens, that is, to respond to the needs of the people, so that what the people need is here. and let's remember that the concept of transparency is evolving. it's not how we understood it five years ago, it's a little different now, so here i appreciate that your spokesperson has always been very focused on the needs of the day. the three areas you mentioned, i.e. lack of cooperation, i.e. the european council, the troika and fake news. these are areas where i think we should focus our cooperation and where we would be grateful for the contact to make a successful venture together.
in writing. in 2016, the european ombudsman's office helped over 15 797 citizens, of which 12 646 cases were resolved by giving advice through the interactive guide on the ombudsman's website, and the remaining 1880 requests as complaints and 1271 as requests for information, which were answered by the ombudsman's services. 245 investigations were opened, including 235 on the basis of complaints and 10 on its own initiative, and 291 investigations were closed (278 on the basis of complaints and 13 on its own initiative). i am pleased to note the significant decrease in the number of inquiries into european institutions that were conducted by the european ombudsman in 2016 (245 in 2016 compared to 261 in 2015). wishing further success to ms emily o'reilly, i hope that the institution of the european ombudsman will continue to improve its work to ensure that eu citizens enjoy their rights to the full, and that the eu institutions and agencies will continue to work to improve their rapid response to the ombudsman's critical remarks and improve their compliance with his recommendations.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - madam president! - i have to go. combating inequalities is one of the obligations of the member states under the treaties. it is also an expression of social justice and social and economic development. the title of the report we are discussing today suggests that tackling inequality can accelerate job creation. i'm sure there are many people in this house who disagree with that. it is not obvious to them, because they associate parallel actions as an extra effort and extra cost, a fanfare of the developed country, not a lever for development. i therefore welcome the amendments prepared by the femm committee, which clearly show how greater equality between women and men can contribute to the construction and development of the labour market. we are now well aware of the gender gap: women earn less, have lower pensions, are blocked from advancing, work in lower-paid sectors. this is compounded by the work-home conflict and the disproportionately high involvement of women in unpaid domestic work. maintaining these inequalities leads to a waste of women's potential, only partially exploiting their education, skills and creativity, which play a key role in the functioning of the labour market, its development and the creation of new jobs.
madam president! the report was a lot of hard work. for this, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lópez, in particular. the elimination of social disparities to improve economic growth and create new jobs is the right idea. that's what we're here for. however, i cannot agree with many of the proposals in this report, such as the establishment of a european pillar of social rights, the introduction of a common european labour market, the introduction of a harmonised minimum income in the european union and the establishment of a global financial register. that is not the european union's competence. it is necessary to leave to the member states their competence in the field of social policy. otherwise, these proposals will be more a source of misunderstanding and conflict than an argument for growth and job creation.
in writing. inequalities are a major challenge, as they are a barrier to the proper and sustainable development of society. but we cannot allow the slogans calling for greater social equality to be accompanied by a clear infringement of the competence of the member states, which are responsible for social policy. the european union has no mandate to harmonise social policy, introduce a social rights pillar or manage welfare systems. the acquis communautaire does not empower the union to harmonise the minimum income in the european union and, further, to introduce a european insurance system. taxation is also a matter for the member states. the elimination of social disparities in order to improve economic growth is a matter of great importance, but here, in my view, under the banner of establishing social equality, it enters the domain of the member states, in breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
the author. time is running out, it is already the fourth year since the introduction of the russian embargo, including on agricultural products from the european union. hence our next action question to the commission under rule 128 of parliament's rules of procedure on behalf of the committee on agriculture, which prepared this question at the request of the coordinators. the russian import ban has deprived european fruit and vegetable producers of an important export market and the extension of the embargo until 31 december 2018 will undoubtedly cause further serious consequences for the union fruit and vegetable sector. this ban, for the third year in a row, is causing significant losses for union producers, unrelated to the conflict in ukraine european farmers have no connection to the conflict in ukraine russia. given the continued volatility of agricultural markets, the russian ban has further worsened the situation of the union agricultural producers. given that the opening of new alternative markets for the union fruit and vegetables sector, equivalent to the russian market, is not feasible in the short to medium term, in particular due to non-tariff barriers to trade, it is necessary to find a sustainable solution to this situation until the end of the russian embargo. in the light of the above, a question to the commission arises. does the commission intend to take further action to support european fruit and vegetable producers and exporters? if so, what specific and balanced actions is it considering? secondly, european fruit and vegetable producers cannot be left to their own devices. what measures will the commission and the council take to ensure the future of european fruit and vegetable producers and exporters? thirdly, what action will the commission take to help farmers compensate for the losses caused by the russian ban? will the commission publish a study on the effects of the diversion and the development of eu agricultural production and distribution and demand since the russian embargo, with particular attention to the situation of small producers and their impact? so much for the questions. as regards the comment, both the farmers and the traders should be thanked for their very intensive efforts to find new markets with visible results. the european commission also tried to provide support where possible and finance was developed, which helped farmers to survive this difficult situation. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner hogan, who has been very decisive in this regard. however, i would like to express a slightly broader opinion that the sanctions imposed by the european union on russia are not very effective. president putin, you can say, laughing, but in retaliation, he is imposing significant restrictions on eu farmers who have nothing to do with the cause of the sanctions, which is russia's aggression against ukraine, but they are paying the price of the situation, which i have already mentioned. if the union wanted to impose serious, effective sanctions on russia, it had many other options, but it did not use them, it just runs various businesses that are very beneficial for some, but not for farmers.
mr. chairman, please! next year, we will be commemorating the centenary of the end of the first world war. in the context of today's debate, it's worth noting that new zealand, a small country of less than a million, has sent 100,000 troops to the allied side to help us win. it was no worse during world war ii. two hundred thousand new zealanders fought on the side of good. it is therefore not surprising that we also have formal relations, such as the joint declaration on relations and cooperation of 2007 and the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation of 5 october 2016. it's hard to believe we signed such important agreements so late in the day. what do we have in common? cultural ties, political ties, economic ties, respect for human rights and the rule of law, cooperation on the environment and security, including the fight against terrorism. i am therefore pleased that all this will lead - i hope as soon as possible - to the conclusion of a free trade agreement between us. it is worth noting that the european union is new zealand's third largest trading partner, and our combined trade is worth about nz$20 billion. the european union is also the second largest investor in new zealand. what's important is that new zealand is a democratic country that respects the rule of law, the environment, the rights of minorities. we have nothing but distance between us, so let's continue to build this cooperation between us.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. about six weeks ago, i had the pleasure of receiving a group of new zealand mps on behalf of president tajani, led by president carter. it was an opportunity to do a little review and compare at the same time the intentions, the will, the similarities, the differences. so the first general statement is that we are historically close, that is, europe is close to new zealand. the second thing that's very important is that our economies are not competitive, our economies are largely complementary. and the third finding is that the size of the european union in every respect and the size of new zealand are two very different sizes. and finally, what they're really interested in is fair cooperation and the question of how we're going to share, especially agricultural trade, after brexit. secondly, cooperation in the field of terrorism and counter-terrorism. and general conclusion i congratulate you on considering this report. i highly recommend support.
mr. chairman, please! in the committee on agriculture we adopted an opinion on agriculture in the negotiations for a trade agreement with new zealand. the author was the previous speaker, mr nicholson, a great specialist in these relations and in the agricultural sector. i mean, new zealand has a competitive agricultural sector, a strongly export-oriented sector dominated by dairy, sheep, goat, beef, and fruit. agricultural trade accounts for a large share of new zealand's total trade. new zealand exports mainly agricultural products, while the union exports processed products to new zealand. we have problems with different standards or geographical indications. we know that new zealand is committed to full trade liberalisation. it's true that new zealand is competitive with european agriculture, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't expand trade. we have to negotiate the right terms, the partnership terms, because simply trade is the fundamental driver of development and growth and globalisation in the world market just goes in that direction. it is also to be expected that new zealand, which was part of the tpp, the trans-pacific partnership, will probably return to these talks and the trans-pacific partnership will take on new dimensions.
in writing. eu-new zealand cooperation has a major impact on the further development of the two economies and their mutual relations. the debate focused on the draft non-legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the european union and new zealand. on 5 october 2016, new zealand and the eu signed the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation (parc). the agreement reflects the close relationship between the two parties that has recently been evident. not only should the high level of mutual relations be noted, but the readiness to continue cooperation in the near future should be emphasised. the agreement creates long-term cultural, political and economic links between the eu and new zealand, reinforces shared values for human rights and the rule of law, and further cooperation in areas such as innovative technologies, the environment and security. parc shall ensure full cooperation between the community and new zealand for the common good. it not only maintains political dialogue and economic cooperation but also contributes to the development of science, education and culture. it should be added that such a partnership will contribute to a more effective fight against migration, terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. both sides are very supportive of the agreement, and both are eager to develop together. it is therefore very important to support the draft resolution on relations and cooperation between eu members and new zealand.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i convey deepest sympathy to the families of all the casualties and the somalian people condemning this appalling terrorist act. taking into account all the difficulties mentioned by the author mr charles tannock, the decade-long combating of al-shabaab’s terrorist activity is a very difficult task. there is some hope after the inauguration of president mohamed abdullahi mohamed and his pledge to get rid of this terrorist organisation’s acts in somalia. the truck bomb attack was first of all probably a reaction to this. we have to build the resilience of somalian society and assist the government which is willing to combat it.
madam president! somalia has been the victim of horrific and cowardly terrorist attacks on a regular basis for some time now, including the october bombing in mogadishu, one of the deadliest in the world. almost all of these attacks have one common denominator: al-shabaab. there is no doubt that comprehensive action is needed to eliminate this terrorist organisation. i believe that the outcome of the february presidential elections and the coming to power of president abdullahi mohamed gives us a chance to make positive changes in this direction. however, it should be borne in mind that additional measures are equally important in addition to strengthening the security forces, such as reducing the sources of financing of al-shabaab by controlling the origin of natural resources or reducing the risk of recruitment by al-shabaab of young people, for example by increasing the number of jobs.
i strongly condemn the bloody terrorist attack in mogadishu on 14 october this year, which left at least 358 people dead and 228 injured. terrorist attacks, public shootings, executions and kidnappings in mogadishu have increased particularly in recent months. given somalia's limited ability to protect its citizens from violence and the risk of the country reverting to anarchy, the african union should seriously consider the possibility of extending the african union mission in somalia (amisom) beyond 2018. i also call on the european commission to allocate a larger pool of funds under the african peace facility to counter terrorism and radicalisation. i also ask the council of the european union to consider the possibility of extending the mandate of the military training mission in somalia (eutm somalia) to include counter-terrorism operations, while increasing the staffing of the mission. the chronic destabilisation of the country is contributing to the mass flight of somalis from their country in search of a better life in europe. the migration crisis of recent years has shown that our capacity to help in this area is limited, and i therefore call for the support of the european union for actions aimed at addressing the problem of migration at its source.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. as many of the previous speakers have mentioned, the elections four years ago seemed to bring stability, reform and the rule of law. but as we can see, today's democratic standards are not being met in this country. we have all spoken about the persecution of journalists, human rights defenders, environmentalists, the ineffective actions of state officials, the unjustified detentions, and at the same time the acts of the self-government. i think that in this case, as far as madagascar is concerned, it is very important to stop, first of all, the excessive and illegal exploitation of natural resources. these are not only madagascar's assets but also the world's, and their over-exploitation leads to ecological degradation and above all, deprives future generations of the population, citizens of this country of the opportunity for socio-economic development, and at the same time, as we see, this leads to a decided corruption at all levels of the current government. it is certainly important to respect human rights and not to make constitutional changes in this country. i think the presidential election next year is a chance to do that, and it can allow for full cooperation and control to keep this country as a democratic country, and i hope that we can do that together.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! one of the five europe 2020 targets is to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million. given that the post-crisis figure was 1.7 million higher than in 2008, it is clear that the measures taken are not producing the expected results. too high and growing inequalities not only have direct social costs, but can also be a barrier to economic growth. reducing inequalities must be one of the main institutional priorities at european level. this is a prerequisite for economic recovery, job creation, social cohesion and shared prosperity. however, the union's action cannot replace the member states' own efforts, particularly in the area of the labour market. the best instrument to fight poverty is job creation and equal opportunities at national or regional level. so any solution that transfers responsibility to the union must be opposed, because it breaks the principle of subsidiarity and it only serves to perpetuate the problem, not to solve it, and that is why i abstained in voting on the report.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by ms petra kammerevert, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the theme '2018: eu-china tourism year' (o-000071/2017 - b8-0609/2017) (2017/2846 (rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i share the author's misgivings about combining the celebration of europe's cultural heritage, which is of great importance to the history of europe's cultural wealth, with the proclamation of the year of tourism between the union and china, which is of course of great value, as are trade and economic contacts. however, the eu should convince china not only to protect the environment but to respect universal values such as human rights, which continue to be violated in china, where the persecution of christians has increased in recent years with the demolition of churches, the removal of crosses, the arrest of worshippers and priests. moreover, for many years, despite the various resolutions from around the world, including the european parliament, the united states, australia, israel and canada, the huge trade in human organs from murdered prisoners has continued, with profits being made from this practice. money or tourism cannot be more important than human life and dignity.
mr. chairman, please! thank you for your vote. of course it is important. on the other hand, if we look at it in a very pragmatic way, this initiative by the european commission should be evaluated in a positive way. even those who are paying attention to it from a human rights perspective, look, the tourism exchange between europe and china will bring chinese people to europe, to learn about our human rights standards, our standards of democracy. they'll see more than just their own country. they'll see not only the solutions that are in other parts of the world, but this highest, best system that's being implemented here. on the other hand, the arrival of europeans in china will mean that there will be not only people who are doing business with that country, who are interested in profit and leaving, who are interested in contacts with the authorities, but normal people whose presence there will also guarantee that the chinese authorities will have to somehow pay attention to what they are doing on their own territory. it may not be a big impact, but i'm sure some positive accents will add value as well. so i wouldn't dismiss entirely the question that became the basis of this debate. but at the same time i want to point out here the positive aspects of our debate today and of this initiative which is being implemented in relations between the union and china.
i'm closing the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament closed.
my colleagues are worried, the polish authorities are dealing with this.
on behalf of the enf group. - madam president! - i have to go. and as i've been working on this budget, i've met a lot of people who are very excited that this budget is so big and it's growing so fast. and i'm looking at it with concern, because it's like a patient who is very happy to see a huge tumor in his body that is growing very fast. the body doesn't react to it, it treats it like its own tissue. but this cancer treats the human body in a very different way, like a parasite treats its host: it seeks to destroy it. so what can you say about that in one minute? i can say what the famous character in the movie "zorba the greek" once said: what a beautiful disaster. and the bible is very clear on this subject: pride goes before a fall. europe is falling under the weight of this budget. i am very sad, because apparently european politicians have stopped reading the bible. that's too bad.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would point out that the increase in commitment appropriations in next year's budget compared with this year is symbolic: it is only 0.2%. the payments are more pronounced, with an increase of 14%, but it seems that this increase may not be sufficient as we enter the second half of the implementation of the multiannual financial perspective for 2014-2020 and all beneficiaries are accelerating the implementation of projects co-financed by the eu budget. this is to avoid a repeat of the payment backlog problem we experienced between 2012 and 2014, when we had almost eur 30 billion in arrears at the end of that period. the commission notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we're currently discussing the 2018 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. this is also the year in which we look at the results of the mid-term review that we have carried out and that we have proposed as parliament. the revision, which increased budget flexibility on the one hand, was not a binding document on the participants in the legislative process on the other. the 2018 budget discussions were therefore difficult, complex, but gave some reason to believe that the next negotiations on the multiannual financial perspective will be conducted in a spirit of cooperation and interaction. it is extremely important for us that, firstly, the european commission, when preparing the proposal, cooperates with parliament and, secondly, that the council is flexible and open enough to treat parliament not only as the body which it will ultimately approve, but also cooperates with parliament. the outcome of the 2018 budget negotiations, which was not satisfactory for all but was nevertheless a success and achievement for all, indicates that it is possible that in the coming year we will not only spend money from the 2018 budget but work together on a new perspective for the period after 2020.
in writing. i welcome with moderate satisfaction the agreement reached two weeks ago on the eu budget for 2018. the joint text, which provides for a total commitment of eur 160.11 billion and a total payment of eur 144.68 billion, is only a partial reflection of our struggle as a parliament to secure adequate funding for initiatives relating to sustainable growth, jobs, in particular youth employment, and security. as the long-standing budget rapporteur for the committee on culture and education, i am particularly concerned about the adequate funding of programmes in this area. as the difficult negotiations on the new mffs begin, i would like to stress the importance of next year's eu budget as one of the last budgets covered by the current mffs. the negotiated perspective will be crucial for the continuity and viability of the union's action in the field of culture and education. i am constantly calling for more funding for the erasmus+, creative europe and europe for citizens programmes. for erasmus+, the revision of the current mffs has already sent a good signal, as has this year's budgetary procedure, which has enabled us to raise an additional eur 24 million for the programme. however, i believe that the future financial perspective must respond even better to the needs of programmes such as erasmus+ and creative europe, which have been receiving unwavering interest from beneficiaries and are undeniably one of the successes of european integration.
i'm pleased to note that there's nothing in the report about fighting global warming - apparently the authors know it was a hoax - it's all about fighting climate change. but we won't forget how much money has been spent on global warming. fortunately, despite the green party's efforts, we have not been able to stop the carbon dioxide emissions. carbon dioxide is increasing, and it's making the earth greener. the earth raises the green flag because there's more carbon dioxide. i am a messenger from silesia, from the deep, which stands on coal. this carbon was created because there was once a lot of carbon dioxide, and plants absorbed it and turned it into carbon. and so if that carbon is released back into the atmosphere, nothing terrible will happen. it is absolutely socially unfair that poland, and specifically silesia and the region of zagłębia, are paying the cost of this crazy fight against climate change, as my predecessor said. and they have to pay monstrous prices for very expensive so-called renewable energy.
madam president! as we all know, the energy union has different objectives, two main objectives that are not easy to reconcile. on the one hand, there are climate goals, defined in different ways, but the other big goal, which we can't forget, is the goal of ensuring security of supply, of ensuring energy, not just clean energy, but energy in general. my colleague, mr tošenovský, spoke about how big the problem is, how heated the discussions in the european parliament are now. but it seems to me that the commission is also not consistent in trying to balance these two objectives and is sending very contradictory signals. in particular, as regards gas, it has now taken the initiative to extend the rules of the third energy package to include gas pipelines from third countries in order to settle this matter. on the other hand, as regards electricity, i think that the commission pays too little attention to energy security, giving priority to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. one of the priorities of the energy union is to ensure energy security for all member states. nevertheless, we continue to see moves in the opposite direction, such as attempts to exclude nord stream 2 from the third energy package. this is contrary to the principles of energy solidarity and harmful to the whole of the european union. speaking of security, we should guarantee consumers a continuous supply of cheap energy. we can do this by using our own energy sources, in poland's case coal, in a sustainable way. in this context, the european commission's initiative in favour of coal regions, including silesia, should be welcomed. the wrong solution is to propose in the power market legislation a cap of 550 g of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour. it excludes coal-fired power plants from power markets, undermining our energy security and national competence to shape the energy basket.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their constructive contributions. first of all, i would like to make a general remark. mr bendtsen made some comments on a general view about the lack of ambition that we see in the council when we approach all these energy topics. i welcome the fact that, on the other side, parliament is showing ambition. it would be impossible to have a reasonable outcome in the trilogues if parliament had not shown the ambition it is showing now. the role of commissioner is to be an honest broker, but without an ambitious position on the parliament side, it would be very difficult to broker any substantive agreement. sometimes people make speeches about raising the level of ambition and about more targets, but when it comes to taking decisions on the tools, on the renewable energy directive or the energy performance of buildings directive, then things are quite different in the council. so i welcome the ambition that has been shown and i also welcome the report by mr blanco lópez, which will very clearly permit us to have an important and substantial debate on renewables, taking into account – and in answer to ms van brempt’s point here – the significant fact that the new data on reduced clean technology costs lower the cost of achieving the renewable energy targets, and the achievement today of a 27% target – the one that the commission is proposing – is cheaper by eur 2.9 billion a year compared with the framework scenario we were given. so there is scope for having important discussions in the trilogue, and let us see what level of ambition the council shows when it meets to decide on the general approach. i would like to devote a few minutes to energy poverty, because mr sylikiotis complained that the package is not ambitious on energy poverty. this is an important topic because one of the key objectives of the new package is to ensure that energy-poor and vulnerable consumers can benefit from modern energy services and are not left behind as consumers but become more engaged with the energy market. while fighting energy poverty is a member state competence, the package presents a series of measures which support member states in their efforts to reduce energy poverty. first of all, the package ensures that member states give proper attention to the issue of energy poverty, that they monitor the number of households in energy poverty, and that all requisite measures are taken to address it. second, the package gives member states the tools and incentives to tackle energy poverty at the root, because to meet their energy savings obligations under the energy efficiency directive, member states have to direct energy efficiency measures towards households affected by energy poverty or in social housing. under the energy performance of buildings directive, member states will have to consider energy poverty in their long-term renovation strategies. the commission is currently working to set up an energy poverty observatory to assist member states in addressing energy poverty, and it will disseminate information and good practice. this observatory will be launched at the end of 2017. the package also provides consumers with the right to be informed about disconnection procedures, and alternatives to disconnection, sufficiently in advance and at no extra cost. ms harms also wanted to raise the level of ambition. it is very clear that we are now establishing 2030 targets. it is very clear that in 2018 we will have a facilitative dialogue under the framework of the paris agreement and that in 2023 there will be a stocktaking exercise in order to prepare new nationally determined contributions (ndcs). so we will be on a continuous pathway to raise the level of ambition and the stages designed under the paris agreement rules. in 2020 we will also have to submit decarbonisation strategies. we already have a roadmap, but we will have to improve on it. mr balczó was concerned about whether our legislation goes against the subsidiarity principle. we have been very respectful of the competences of member states and when we establish regional operation centres we are not invading the competences of member states or national regulatory authorities. we are only establishing the need to coordinate at regional level because we are no longer energy islands. member states should now be better interconnected and energy will flow across the continent. we are driving towards a single market in the future, but first we have to integrate regional markets. to do that, we need regional operation centres, but we believe we have fully respected the subsidiarity principle. there was a contribution by mr howarth about competitiveness. competitiveness is one of the five dimensions of the energy union and thus is a priority of the governance regulation because, with the national plans, member states have to report on objectives for national funding targets for research and innovation to make sure that we stay the global leader in renewable energy. the governance regulation established a coherent legal framework aimed at providing long—term global stability and certainty for investors. that is fundamental. we are also putting in place an enabling framework that will be conducive to sustaining investment and growth driven by the deployment of low-carbon technologies. ha habido una pregunta del señor marcellesi, relativa a alguna decisión, a algún proyecto de real decreto del gobierno español en torno a la prohibición del cierre de plantas de carbón. en este momento los servicios de la comisión están analizando este proyecto de norma para ver su conformidad con la normativa europea en su conjunto. lo que sí les voy decir en este momento —ya se han referido alguna de sus señorías— es que en bonn hubo un evento, en el marco de la cp.23, en el que aproximadamente 25 países anunciaron su intención de abandonar definitivamente el carbón, entre ellos diez de la unión europea. pero también le debo decir que en estos momentos en la unión europea hay 42 regiones —y ha habido algún diputado que lo ha puesto de manifiesto— y 11 estados miembros que todavía siguen produciendo carbón, y además en 2016 había todavía 206 plantas de generación de carbón en 21 estados miembros, con una capacidad de 100 gigawatios. por lo tanto, teniendo en cuenta que el mix energético es competencia de los estados miembros, la comisión lo que va a exigir es que se cumpla el derecho de la unión y lo que va a hacer la comisión es exigir que los estados miembros cumplan sus objetivos de reducción de emisiones, establecidos en la directiva en el marco de los mercados de carbono, por una parte, y de la directiva sobre el reparto de esfuerzos, por otra parte. ha habido una intervención del señor benito ziluaga relativa a los proyectos de interés común y la existencia de proyectos que apoyan el gas. como sabe perfectamente el señor benito ziluaga, la selección de los proyectos es un proceso complejo. en primer lugar, los que presentan el proyecto son los promotores de los mismos. en segundo lugar, los grupos regionales, en los que están representantes de los estados miembros, de los operadores de redes, de las autoridades reguladoras nacionales, de la agencia de cooperación de los reguladores de la energía, evalúan los proyectos de acuerdo con el valor añadido que tengan y las políticas europeas. y se elabora una lista que la comisión valida definitivamente. sí le puedo decir que, si analiza la evolución de los proyectos en la lista que tenemos en este momento, verá que en 2015 los proyectos de electricidad eran el 55 % y ahora son el 61 %; los de gas eran el 39 % y ahora son el 30 %. es decir, estamos en una evolución en que los pci, los proyectos de interés común, cada vez más serán de electricidad y, por supuesto, serán menos de gas. pero hay que tener en cuenta, no obstante, dos factores: que la demanda de gas en el año 2030 seguirá siendo de 350 000 millones de metros cúbicos y que, en segundo lugar, todavía se necesitan proyectos de gas en algunas regiones, como los países bálticos y los de europa central y oriental, ya que son muy vulnerables porque dependen de un solo suministrador de gas. es decir, hay zonas de la unión europea en que no hacen falta gasoductos adicionales y hay zonas que están totalmente aisladas y son dependientes de un suministrador único. por lo tanto, todavía tenemos algunos proyectos que tendrán que realizarse, si bien la tendencia en el futuro será la financiación de proyectos en el sector de la electricidad. quisiera decirle también al señor blanco, en relación con su intervención, que la comisión está en este momento analizando los detalles de su propuesta. vamos a ver también cuál será la posición del consejo el 18 de diciembre —la posición común—, pero entendemos que es una propuesta que puede ser francamente positiva a la hora de definir ambiciones futuras. regarding nord stream: as you know, the commission has a mandate to negotiate an international agreement so that we can apply the principles of european legislation. on the other side, we have proposed a reform, an amendment to the current gas regulation in order to make sure that the principles that preside in the functioning of the gas markets are also applied to all parts, to off-shore pipelines. as a whole, i would like to thank all the members for their interventions and say, to conclude, that the state of the energy union report highlights some progress that we have made during the last three years but it also illustrates that we still have a long way to go on the journey towards a carbon-neutral energy system. in the coming months, as we come to finalise the clean energy for all europeans package, it will be vital in finalising the stable regulatory framework to facilitate this journey. based on the debate today, i am optimistic that you are aware of the responsibility and opportunities that lie ahead. this is what european citizens are expecting from all of us.
i think i can express the feelings of those in the room when i say that in your answers you have referred to specific questions and specific people, going beyond the information you have prepared on the card. thank you so much for that. it made our debate more authentic. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i am pleased that the work on the energy union is progressing well and that much has been achieved in this area over the past three years. the success of the gas security is evident in the introduction of regional cooperation, the principle of solidarity and the transparency of energy agreements. however, i believe that the best way to talk about the state of the energy union is through the nord stream 2 project, because it is on the basis of this project that we show whether we are able to act in solidarity in the interests of europe as a whole and how resistant we are to the influence of third parties. i believe that the draft revision of the gas directive presented by the european commission, which envisages the inclusion of gas pipelines linking member states to third countries in the third energy package and thus concerns projects such as nord stream 2, is a very good step in the right direction and i hope that this revision will be brought to a positive conclusion quickly.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the deadly floods in the attica region and humanitarian aid during the natural disaster (2017/2992 ((rsp)).
we're closing the debate on the house bill. we now proceed to hear the views of commissioner corina creţu on behalf of the european commission. i think that your task is not too complicated: a lot has been said about the commission.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the polish delegation to the ecr group fully supports the establishment of transitional provisions on international financial reporting standards as of 1 january 2018. this is necessary because full implementation of ifrs 9 at this stage may result in banks accumulating large provisions for expected credit losses, but at the same time reducing their regulatory capital ratios. the transitional provision for banks to include part of the increased reserves as so-called additional capital in their core capital will contribute to the financial stability of the sector and facilitate the implementation of the directive as a whole. it remains to be hoped, however, that banks will make good use of the additional time they have been given to adapt to the new regulations and, without risking liquidity loss on their assets, build up more robust reserves to cover possible credit losses, so that the 2007 scenario, which compromised the bank lending market, does not recur.
on the day of the african union summit, we recognise the enormous security threats on the african continent. the changes planned in the instrument are intended to help us to respond to these threats, including cooperation with organisations such as the african union. as legislators, however, we must remember that we are operating in a highly sensitive legislative environment, with many treaty constraints. we must also remember that we need to have a balanced view of the threats in our southern and eastern neighbourhoods and look for solutions that can have a similar impact on mitigating them.
in writing. the european parliament and the council have jointly prepared a proposal to amend regulation no 230/2014 of 11 march 2014 establishing an instrument contributing to stability and peace (capacity-building for security and development). the amended regulation introduces, in specific cases, additional safeguards to strengthen the military capabilities of the member states for the maintenance of peaceful and balanced development of society and the state. the proposal aims to increase community support to protect and develop partner countries more effectively. this programme is one of the outcomes of the european commission's work on defence in december 2013. a wider eu involvement could support activities such as training, mentoring, advice, the provision of safe materials, infrastructure facilities and other services. the proposal for this regulation aims to involve partner countries in preventive actions and in providing advice on how to deal with the crisis without the intervention of neighbouring countries. the instruments established at the same time would improve cooperation between eu and partner countries in the area of common military defence, as well as guarantee the protection of the rule of law, the rule of law and enhanced civil surveillance. the budget provided for includes expenditure of approximately eur 100 million for the period 2017-2020, with funds for this purpose to be transferred from heading iv of the general budget. it's important to remember that only by supporting each other can we keep the peace.
mr president, there is a security and humanitarian catastrophe in yemen. we support the un special envoy, in particular in trying to secure humanitarian corridors for those suffering; yet despite efforts vis-à-vis saudi arabia, we have to know that the houthi do not act alone. there, a symmetric activity has been financed and supported by iran changing, for some time now already, its foreign affairs paradigm and destabilising the region. in focusing somehow on the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), we forget this role and our activities should be aimed at iran as well and at trying to ensure that this country stops financing non-state actors playing this very negative role in the region.
i have received eight motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 30 november 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by mr bernt lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the negotiation of a convention establishing a multilateral investment tribunal (o-000084/2017 b8-0611/2017 (2017/2924 ((rsp)).
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the ecr group supports the initiative to establish a multilateral dispute settlement tribunal, which is the latest proposal in the context of multilateralisation and institutionalisation of the decentralised international investment law system. the aim of the measures taken is to reduce the administrative burden by centralising disputes under a single set of procedural rules, which is intended to ensure that investors have access to international investment dispute resolution, regardless of the size or turnover of the companies. in addition to a centralised appeal mechanism and the possibility of third party intervention, the proposal contains strict requirements on ethics and impartiality, the appointment of judges for one term only, the full-time employment of judges and independent appointment mechanisms. the present proposal raises a number of practical and legal problems, such as the confidentiality and independence of the parties in the appointment of arbitrators, while raising questions concerning the costs, duration and financing of the tribunal. the commission notes that the court of justice has not provided any evidence that the tribunal has been entrusted with the task of discharging its duties. the tribunal will most likely be composed of the same arbitrators who are already arbitrators in investment contracts. i believe that the success of this proposal will mark a new era for international investment law around the world, but it cannot be said with certainty at this point that the multilateral tribunal will be a better or worse institution, although institutionalisation and the appeal mechanism tend to make dispute resolution even more expensive.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr. chairman, please! this parliament has set the standard for states, governments, parliaments and political circles to condemn extremist manifestations, under penalty of complicity if they do not condemn this or that excess. there was a scandal in paris this month. a demonstration that is hard to describe actually took place at the town hall. in the presence of the former prime minister of the republic, mr manuel valls, in the presence of the acting mayor, mrs anne hidalgo, the international grand prix of secularism was awarded to inna shevchenko, not only the leader of the extremist femina, but the person who personally carved the cross in kiev, erected at the place of execution of thousands of people murdered by the nkvd. this case must be condemned in the first place by all those who demand such condemnation. we often hear that parliament demands a response from our president. i therefore ask president tajani to expressly condemn this scandalous demonstration. i also strongly urge my fellow socialists to expressly condemn this excess which so much damages the good name of your political circle. of course, this also obliges the party whose members are the people who allowed the author of this scandalous, extremist, insulting act of the dead to be honored.
i'm closing this discussion on this item of business.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the polish delegation to the ecr group supports the proposal to amend article 108 of the bank recovery and resolution directive. the current rules do not regulate the subordination of unsecured debt to claims arising from other forms of unsecured debt. the commission has also concluded that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. the new regulation will thus facilitate the application of eu debt write-off or debt conversion rules, particularly in cross-border situations, and will give international investors and global banks the most desirable thing in the eu single market: legal certainty. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the need to monitor the rules being implemented so that they do not impose an excessive burden on financial institutions.
on behalf of the ppe group. ladies and gentlemen! as co-rapporteur, i would like to congratulate my colleague held stevens and express my satisfaction that we have been able to produce a comprehensive report. i also want to thank all the colleagues who have contributed in the form of amendments. today we are adopting a document which directly concerns the quality of life of europeans with disabilities and their families, and i therefore believe that it is necessary to create the conditions for them to live as independently as possible, to move away from isolating in-house care, to develop assistance, inclusive education, personalised counselling and supported employment, as well as accessible environments, goods and services, as the commissioner has also stressed. in speaking of the exercise of rights by persons with disabilities, i would like to emphasise in particular the rights of citizenship, including the right to vote in elections to the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen! in a few days' time, on 6 december, the european parliament will be debating the issue of disabled people in this chamber. more than 700 delegates from all member states will present their demands, counting on us, the members of the european parliament, to fight with full commitment for their implementation. the right to vote will be one of the key issues at this important meeting. the report we are voting on is not just an assessment of the state of play, but also a commitment to building a europe for all, a europe without barriers.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. special thanks to mrs helga stevens for such an important report. in fact, we all experience disabilities to a greater or lesser degree, even though the modern world is designed by and for people with disabilities. it would be so beautiful and noble if the world of the disabled and the world of the healthy were built on one lasting foundation and if they enriched and complemented each other. to work in this one world to alleviate dysfunction and at the same time prepare people with disabilities for active life in the natural environment. after all, a disability is never a handicap. the disabled person is first and foremost a person and is never a cripple, a crippled or a retarded person. always and everywhere, we're supposed to see the person first, the man, then possibly his cart. in poland, the constitutional and statutory provisions prohibit discrimination... (the speaker interrupts because of translation problems) among other reasons, gender and disability. the provisions in force concerning broad human, civil and political rights and social, economic and cultural rights apply equally to women and men, girls and boys. disabled people have the right to a normal life and, if they are not disabled and their health allows it, they can live in a marriage (understood as a union between a man and a woman), live together, marry and have children. the law allows them to do so and polish law protects them. according to the polish constitution, no one may be discriminated against in political, social or economic life for any reason. women and men in the republic of poland have equal rights in family, political, social and economic life, and public authorities provide assistance to disabled persons in securing their livelihood, adapting them to work, social communication and special health protection.
i have the great pleasure of informing you that in the official guest box is a delegation of the parliament of the republic of uzbekistan, our friends, and my friends. i warmly welcome the uzbek delegation, led by the chairman of the senate committee on international relations and foreign economic cooperation, foreign investment and tourism, mr alisher kurmanov. i am pleased to welcome the representatives of the parliament of uzbekistan to the 13th meeting of our parliamentary cooperation committee. we look forward to constructive discussions and the continuation of our good, friendly working relationships. thank you for coming! thank you for coming!
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the common fisheries policy, the common fisheries policy and the common fisheries policy.
mr. chairman, please! all disabled people have a right to our solidarity, and we have an obligation to provide it, because that's what society is for, to help those who are in need. but to deny that is to question the law, the most fundamental right of people with disabilities, which is the right to be born. recently in france, the french state authorities have decided to deny the status of social advertising, to deny the right to solidarity, to a social advertising showing children with down syndrome talking about their happy life, talking about the love they experience, about happiness, because, as it was announced, this advertising would hurt women who had made a different legal decision. unfortunately, this policy is also reflected in the decisions of this parliament, which at its last sitting attacked the polish social initiative, i should like to stress, the social legislative initiative on the right to birth of children with disabilities. it is time for the european union to change its policy, because it is a denial of the intentions it officially declares.
mr. chairman, please! there are as many as 80 million people with disabilities in the european union. we cannot allow these people to be deprived of the full enjoyment of their civil rights. although work on increasing accessibility and better social inclusion of people with disabilities is progressing, there is still a significant area that needs improvement. we need to complete the european accessibility act quickly and effectively to make it easier for people with disabilities to access products and services and thus enable them to live independent and dignified lives. the measures to increase the employment of people with disabilities are also particularly important, as the problem of unemployment among this group of people remains significant. i believe that this situation can be changed by providing appropriate incentives for employers, by promoting the creation of social enterprises or by creating flexible and inclusive working conditions. increasing the employment of disabled people is also possible through the provision of good quality inclusive education from the earliest age. in this respect, segregation policies should be avoided, as well as architectural and transport barriers. in addition, due to the high rate of early school leaving among disabled people, a wide range of lifelong learning programmes should be provided.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today, thursday 30 november 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. – there are up to 80 million people with disabilities in the eu facing challenges in education and employment on a daily basis. only 48% of persons with disabilities are actively involved in the labour market and only 28% have finished higher education. the members of the european parliament call upon the eu co-legislators to approve the european accessibility act without further delay as a key part of the european disability strategy. inaccessibility causes exclusion from various areas, including culture or transport, and thus limits the possibilities of social engagement. in order to effectively fight segregation in education, participation in the eu programmes, such as erasmus+ or the youth guarantee, should be granted. furthermore, i call on the commission to encourage the uninvolved member states to join the eu disability card project, which secures equal access to benefits for people with disabilities across the eu. a high level of awareness is crucial to fully benefiting from the support programmes. therefore, the local authorities should guarantee the maximum access for people with disabilities to documents and services. i hope the eu institutions will take the lead and ensure that all their websites are adjusted to the needs of visually impaired people.
in writing. in the context of the report on the implementation of the european disability strategy, i would like to draw attention to three issues related to my work in the committee on culture and education. first, given the high proportion of disabled people who leave school early, it is necessary to expand the provision of lifelong learning, with particular emphasis on distance learning, including e-learning. in addition, actions to facilitate mobility for disabled people are key, including ensuring that they have the possibility to use a disability card in all eu countries, to transfer social rights and benefits and to receive adequate financial support for mobility under the erasmus+ programme. finally, following on from the report, i call for young people with disabilities to have access to quality traineeships and placements and for them to be given more support in their search for employment, using european programmes and initiatives.
madam president! the budget of the 'erasmus+' programme was increased by eur 24 million, and that of 'horizon 2020' by eur 110 million. it's good, especially since the initial debate may have limited this important project. but what's crucial, from my point of view, is to reduce those liabilities, which were very painful when they were unpaid. the reduction of the disparity between payments and commitments seems to me to be the most important success in the debate on this budget.
on the one hand, we should be glad that we have finally an instrument, an instrument of stability and security, a combination of development and security. but i'll point out that the strategy was created in 2003. the instrument shall be adopted in 2017. i'm pointing this out because sometimes getting to an instrument, getting something that's written in a certain document to work properly, takes a lot of time, a lot of effort, and in my opinion, mostly a waste of time. as far as security is concerned, we know why it's become so important. we are witnessing phenomena linked to terrorism, illegal border crossings, with various acts of devastation of the sense of peace, the sense of security in europe. it is worth working on such instruments as soon as the strategy is established. otherwise, we're really weak.
i'm conducting a hearing on access to culture next week. i will point out in it that access to and participation in culture is not primarily blocked by financial constraints. they're important, but not the most important. the first obstacle is lack of education. but in this debate we're talking about today, there's another thing worth noting. we must remember that one in six people in europe over the age of 15 has some form of disability. unfortunately, because of this defect, access to culture is very often limited. i also want to draw attention to the problem of an ageing society. these older people, also for physical reasons, are sometimes denied access to many of the institutions, many of the attractions offered in the cultural world. we all know how important culture is to us. so it's important that we just try to endure all these blockages.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to return to our original proposal, which was to have this major interpellation on the agenda in january. that was our original request, but for some reason it was decided to have it this week. so i would like to return to our original proposal.
mr president, i wanted to state to parliament that in the evening of december 8, a major terrorist attack was committed by adf rebels in north kivu province of the drc, killing 15 un peacekeepers and seriously wounding more than 53 soldiers stationed there belonging to the monusco un mission deployed to eastern drc. on behalf of the subcommittee on security and defence, i would like to convey our deepest sympathy to the families of those who perished in that islamist terrorist attack. (applause)
member of the commission. – mr president, i am here this afternoon on behalf of commissioner hogan, who is in buenos aires for the ministerial meeting of the world trade organization. but, as you know very well, rural development is something which for me, as the commissioner for regional policy, is very close to my heart. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr deß, for this report and for his work in getting us to this point. we have been waiting a long time for this debate, both in agriculture and cohesion policy, in order to make the lives of beneficiaries in both fields much easier. indeed, the text to be voted on tomorrow is the result of complex negotiations which started in the summer. i am glad that preliminary agreement was reached in october between all three institutions. as you know, this agreement covers a very wide range of issues in all four basic acts of the common agricultural policy. it contains many changes, which come from amendments proposed by both the council and parliament. some of them go beyond the original commission proposal. the text on which you will vote tomorrow is the result of a compromise. it was achieved through a constructive approach by all parties. however, as you know and as was outlined during the conclusion of the trialogue process, the commission has some misgivings about the end results. this is particularly the case regarding the new provisions in favour of producer organisations and their possible consequences for effective competition. we also have reservations about the limited role that the commission and the national competition authorities will play in safeguarding competition. having said that, we are nevertheless very happy to see that many of the important simplification proposals put forward by the commission are in the final text. i am thinking of, for example, the simplification of rules for financial instruments, the improvement of risk management tools, and the possibility for greater flexibility for active farmer provisions. commissioner hogan has been taking this simplification agenda forward for the last two years. member states and farmers are now anxious to see these important simplification measures and other improvements to the common agricultural policy rules enter into force as soon as possible. these measures will reduce the administrative burden on member states and farmers. it was with this in mind that the council and parliament agreed to have the agriculture provisions separated from the rest of the omnibus proposals. the original objective was to have them adopted as a stand-alone legal instrument to enter into force on 1 january 2018. well, i would like to assure you that the commission also wants to see these simplification measures coming into effect as early as possible for the benefit of farmers in all member states. the commission’s omnibus proposal is a single proposal. it covers diverse, but interconnected, provisions, and the commission would like to see them all enter into force as soon as possible. for this to happen, we need to progress swiftly on the remaining parts of the omnibus proposals, which also contain significant simplification provisions. quick implementation of these provisions will benefit everyone. with a view to achieving tangible results as soon as possible, i can tell you that the commission will not oppose the agreement reached on the new stand-alone text introducing changes to the basic regulations of the common agricultural policy. therefore, the commission will continue its constructive and cooperative approach in order to move further forward in this important area so that efforts can rapidly bear fruit.
on behalf of the ppe group. the mid-term review of the cap under the single regulation was a success, thanks to the concerted cooperation of the three institutions involved: the commission, the council and the parliament. the changes that have been made can be described as a minor reform without hesitation, as they involve substantial changes to some of the key instruments of the cap. the simplification elements introduced and the flexibility given to member states are particularly important. the change will benefit young farmers, who we need so much in rural areas. they will be able to receive up to twice their current payments and continue to receive them for five years, regardless of when they applied for them. further steps have been taken to strengthen the farmer's position in the food chain, including by extending the possibility for producer organisations to collectively negotiate prices and by excluding farmers from the rules of eu competition law. we have also provided better risk management tools in the event of market difficulties, weather anomalies or plant or animal disease outbreaks. the work on the single regulation was also a good warm-up, a valuable experience ahead of the upcoming cap reform for the period after 2020. once again, i thank all parties for their hard work, and most importantly, for their fruitful work. i would like to thank in particular our excellent rapporteurs, mr dessa and mr de castro... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the general objective of this proposal is to improve the transparency and governance of eu vessels operating in non-eu waters and to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks. however, while we seek these goals, we should not forget about increasing the effectiveness of the current system or promoting a level playing field for union operators vis-à-vis third-country operators. i am talking about the effective closure of eu markets for products coming from third-country vessels that do not meet the requirements of this legislation. the eu should create a level playing field so that eu fishing vessels can compete with the vessels from these countries. in this context, i would like to congratulate the negotiating team on their successful conclusion of the trialogue negotiations. i believe this deal is balanced and we should support it during tomorrow’s vote.
member of the commission. – mr president, i appreciate very much the support expressed by the members of this parliament for this legislative proposal. we are all looking forward to a positive vote on it. i also take note of your concerns as regards international civil aviation organisation, which the commission shares. we know that this organisation should work in a more transparent manner, and we have agreed on a joint statement from the three institutions on these issues. we are also aware that the rules being developed in the international civil aviation organisation are far from securing a robust system, but we’ll have a chance to report on this and react accordingly. that is precisely one of the key elements of the legislation we are discussing today. let me conclude by thanking you once again on behalf of mr arias cañete, who very much regrets not being here with us today. thank you for processing this file in a swift manner and for your valuable contributions.
member of the commission. – mr president, my colleague věra jourová has just informed me that she is in very heavy traffic, so i should continue with her file. however, before i continue i need a two-minute break, if it is possible.
very well, madam commissioner, maybe i will ask the rapporteur to take the floor first.
member of the commission. – will you allow me to be absent for one minute?
yes, i will give you five minutes in the name of good cooperation between the commission and parliament.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 december 2017.
the next item is the report by mrs beatriz becerra basterrechea, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the 2017 eu citizenship report: strengthening citizens' rights in a union of democratic change (2017/2069(ini)) (a8-0385/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, eu citizenship lies at the core of the european union. it is a powerful sign that we, as europeans, belong to a union of common values. moreover, eu citizenship brings with it a range of rights, including the much cherished right of free movement and rights of democratic participation. all eu citizens can stand and vote in both local and european parliament elections in their state of residence, and all citizens have the right to participate in a european ... (the speaker was interrupted by the president following interpretation problems.) in addition, every citizen of the union has the right to petition the european parliament, and i use this opportunity to recognise the work undertaken by the parliament’s committee on petitions to help our citizens protect and enforce their eu rights. eu citizenship is also inextricably linked to equality. eu citizens have the right to be treated equally regardless of their nationality. our citizens are protected by the union’s legislation and actions against discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic group, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. the regular eu citizenship report is a demonstration of the union’s continuing commitment and outreach to its citizens. it gives us the opportunity to reflect together on what the eu can do better to improve and strengthen the rights of eu citizens. i thank parliament for the structured input it gave to the commission for this year’s report. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, beatriz becerra basterrechea, for her tireless work in steering parliament’s reaction to the commission’s report to its conclusion. the commission citizenship report 2017 priorities include the promotion to the status of eu rights and values of: participation in democratic life, simplification of the daily lives of our citizens and strengthening security. in relation to each priority, the commission has set out in the report its ongoing and future activities for delivering. my short intervention does not allow me to do justice to all the activities, but let me say a few words on two particular areas of action. firstly, as regards both promoting eu citizenship rights and enhancing participation in the democratic life of the union, our research showed that on average only 54% of eu citizens were aware of their right to vote and stand in municipal elections in their country of residence. we are committed to improving this figure by raising awareness on electoral rights and developing best practices to make it easier for eu citizens to vote in both local and european elections. secondly, on free movement, rights and security, the commission’s 2018 work programme will include two specific initiatives to enhance eu citizens’ rights to consular protection when traveling outside of the eu. we are currently looking at improving the security features of the eu common format emergency travel documents. the aim is to improve the security of eu documents used to cross our common external borders. at the same time, we will be raising awareness of our eu citizens’ right to consular protection by the authorities of any member state. we are looking at options to improve the security of eu citizens’ national identity cards and residence documents. the aim is to improve the security features of such documents to address security gaps and document fraud, and to help remedy practical obstacles faced by eu citizens. to conclude, promoting, protecting and strengthening eu citizenship is a challenge for us all. raising awareness and encouraging our citizens to use their rights is part of the challenge, but we also need to remove obstacles to improve the operation of such rights and to ensure effective enforcement. i count on you to make this happen.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. european citizenship is based on two pillars. the first is to know the rights of the citizens of the european union, and the second is to ensure that these rights are respected uniformly for all citizens. education, culture and the arts play a huge role in both of these aspects. it is through education at all levels that we can spread awareness of the common european values and the rights of eu citizens. but for this dissemination to be effective, it is necessary to provide teachers and educators with substantive support so that they can integrate information about civil rights into the teaching process. through culture and the arts, we can strengthen the sense of european identity and stimulate intercultural dialogue, which is of great importance in the context of the integration of migrants. programmes like erasmus+, like creative europe, like europe for citizens, are the ones that are doing this. but to be implemented properly, they must be accessible to everyone, including people with disabilities and people from disadvantaged backgrounds, and adequately funded. i also ask the commission to develop transparent and common criteria for assessing the performance of european programmes promoting european citizenship.
this debate mixes issues directly related to european union citizenship with issues that are very loosely related to this issue, such as the dispute over the economic policy model or the push for the anti-discrimination directive to be adopted, even though it raises concerns precisely from the point of view of individual rights in those countries where it raises concerns. i am in favour of concentrating on the substance of the matter - the good application of citizens' rights, the right to vote, the unblocking of the european citizens' initiative, the free use of petitions, the conditions of citizens' rights, transparency and, as one of my colleagues has said, the right of citizens to good administration. and finally, the third very important issue: the civil rights aspect, which is education and culture. this is linked to the need to develop the european union's cultural and educational programmes. let's focus on that because it makes more sense and it's more useful.
mr president, the europeans are more than ever aware of their status as eu citizens, and the proportion of europeans wanting to know more about their rights continue to increase. it is a valuable status which gives citizens more freedoms, such as free movement, consular protection and the right to vote and stand as candidates in their municipal and european parliament elections, wherever they live in the european union. citizens need to be aware of their rights in order to benefit from them. while some rights are well known and implemented effectively, gaps and misunderstandings remain. the effectiveness of eu citizenship rights depends on this awareness amongst the citizens, member states’ governments and local and regional authorities. it is very important to deliver concrete, tangible solutions for european citizens to continue living and enjoying an area of longstanding peace, security and prosperity, of shared values, principles of fundamental rights and freedoms. we need to empower the citizens so they know more about what they can do, so they can use their rights more easily and more effectively.
thank you very much, madam rapporteur. if i may, i would just like to note that the commissioner attended most of our debate and her delay was excused and she was replaced by commissioner bulc, which i would appreciate. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation by liisa jaakonsaari, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of kazakhstan, of the other part (12409/2016 - c8-0469/2016 - 2016/0166 ((nle)) (a8-0325/2017) and report by liisa jaakonsaari, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a draft non-legislative resolution on a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of kazakhstan, of the other part (2017/2035 (ini)) (a8-0335/2017).
in writing. the report presented contains a draft non-legislative resolution on strengthening the partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states and the republic of kazakhstan. the resolution aims to clarify political, economic and cultural relations between the community and kazakhstan, based on mutual commitments. they refer to shared values such as democracy, the rule of law, human rights. it should be stressed that freedom of the media and freedom of speech are fundamental parts of the creation of a sustainable democracy. unfortunately, the eu is concerned about a draft law that attempts to impose top-down restrictive rules on journalists. it should be recalled that the eu countries are kazakhstan's first trading partner and kazakhstan is the main partner for central asia. the agreement is in line with the epca (european petrochemical association) to strengthen relations in sectors such as sustainable development, foreign and defence policy, justice and trade. it also stresses the importance of the current trade relationship, which is mainly oil and gas. the report highlights the large-scale nature of the relationship between the international workforce, environmental protection, human rights including healthcare, security, education, impartial institutions and the fight against corruption. the member states of the union intend to help in the fight against corruption. the text supports the accession of kazakhstan to the wto on 1 january 2016, which is conducive to its economic and administrative development. the mutual partnership and cooperation agreement will certainly diversify the economies of both countries.
last week i spoke in parliament about the activities of mr mikheil saakashvili, the former president of georgia, in ukraine. nobody was interested. meanwhile, mr. saakashvili is in prison and continues to speak out against the corrupt regime in ukraine. i would like to point out that we, as the european union, support this regime. the polish state also supports this regime. and mr. saakashvili is a knight of the order of the rebirth of poland, awarded by the president of poland. the more money a country receives, the more corruption it experiences. you can see it in vietnam, for example, when the americans supported south vietnam, you can also see it when the americans supported the syrian democratic army, and what corruption there was. the same is unfortunately true of the money given to mr. poroshenko's regime. i am sympathetic to mr saakashvili here and i think the union should take an interest in his fate.
the 2016 panama papers caused a huge scandal because it showed the scale of tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering around the world. the european commission estimates that the total loss to the budgets of the eu member states for this alone amounts to €1 trillion per year, and that globally, such practices can cost national budgets more than $3 trillion. the favorite place for these scams is, of course, the so-called tax havens, but the general idea is that these are jurisdictions that offer secrecy, anonymity and very low tax rates. the committee of inquiry has done a very good job. the report we are receiving and discussing is a good report. its main points have already been referred to. i would say that we could improve this report even more if there was better cooperation between the political groups in parliament. i would ask the socialist and democratic group in this context to show some flexibility before tomorrow's vote and to meet the expectations of the other political groups, because we in parliament need a very strong signal to the public. we need the support of the entire house on this. the commission is therefore calling for some compromise to be reached before tomorrow's vote, so that the whole house can vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the european parliament's inquiry committee, which has been investigating the panama papers for a year, has delivered a shocking verdict. the lack of political will in some eu member states has allowed tax avoidance. the commission is making a serious accusation against european governments, which have been complicit in money laundering and tax evasion for over 20 years. meps agree that the european union as a whole must play a key role in the global fight against money laundering and tax evasion. but we must be realistic. the commission's work to date in the form of final reports, which i cannot support because of certain provisions, may be called into question. this is the repeated call for the harmonization of tax laws, the introduction of a common consolidated tax base and the abolition of the unanimity rule in the council. in my opinion, this would infringe poland's tax sovereignty. i therefore abstain.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! over its two years of operation, the efsi has proven its potential to stimulate investment, growth and competitiveness. i think we have to address some issues that need to be corrected. the main concern is the significant disparity in the use of funds between the so-called old 15 and the central and eastern european member states. i believe that the combination of the efsi and the structural and investment funds can help to achieve the desired results in improving this situation. however, it should be stressed that cohesion policy, as the main investment policy of the european union, has already proven its effectiveness not only in terms of generating investment but also in promoting structural reforms, human capital development and the creation of sustainable jobs. it is therefore necessary to ensure that, also in the future financial perspective, the efsi does not replace or supplant in any way other funds and instruments of the european union and that their distinctiveness is preserved.
the extension of the efsi until the end of 2020 and the increase of the target level of investments to be generated by it to eur 500 billion should be strongly supported, as the stimulation of investments under the efsi is generating positive results for the union-wide economy. it should also be underlined that the reindustrialisation of europe should be a major priority of the fund, not just the proposed climate protection, and that sustainable investment in energy-intensive industries is necessary to achieve such a priority. the eligibility of defence projects, which are so important for the economies of many union countries, should also be considered. it would also be desirable to allow the efsi to be used as a national contribution to projects financed by european funds and the cef. this is not possible so far, whereas traditional eib financing offers this possibility.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the polish delegation to the ecr group has from the outset appreciated the efsi as an important initiative that can effectively support both large structural investments and smaller private sector investments. we are also calling on the commission once again to increase the targeted resources in the project for developing a training system for entrepreneurs in project preparation, because we see a large disparity in the spending of funds from this fund between the so-called new and western europe. the proposal to extend the efsi is a valid one, but i hope that it will not lead to the weakening or substitution of other sources of funding, such as the cef.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i hereby close the vote.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about civil rights on the 25th anniversary of the guarantee of civil rights in the 1992 treaty. this great idea of the european union is about 500 million people. and this is also a very important goal for us, although it must be clearly stated that it is not yet fully achieved. it is worth emphasising here that the concept of citizenship of the european union also implies the achievement and maintenance in a united europe and in the member states of the fundamental values of the european union, which include freedom, equality, democracy, equal rights, non-discrimination, inter alia, on grounds such as gender, nationality, sexual orientation, age, language, ethnic origin, religion or disability. when we talk about citizens' rights, we also have to remember that the right to health and pension protection is guaranteed to all citizens of the european union, regardless of where they live and from which member state they come, as long as they are in the european union, in the territory of a united europe.
i hereby close the explanations of vote.
i'm reading this report and i'm hearing that we're threatened, even attacked by some kind of hybrid war. i don't know what hybrid warfare is, i haven't found it anywhere, but i know it's supposedly russia. well, russia wasn't doing any hybrid war in syria, they just sent in planes, helped to break up the self-proclaimed caliphate, and they just took the planes, pulled out their troops, which is not mentioned in the report at all. but i have a second question: if hybrid war is so dangerous and dangerous, why don't we do hybrid war? i don't see the european union planning a hybrid war. why is the european union not engaging in some sort of hybrid warfare, not responding with a hybrid war to hybrid wars? there is no such thing, it's just military procurement and i suspect it's just taking bribes again for supplies, and tanks, and something more or less necessary, as long as there are bribes for politicians. and i think that's the whole point of this pesco.
mr. chairman, please! recent eurobarometer surveys show that europeans are deeply concerned about geopolitical developments in the world. 68% of those polled want the eu to do more for security and defence. the volatile world situation calls for a more aware and responsible union with a foreign and security policy. both ms mcallister's and ms gahlers reports stress that in an increasingly complex and volatile international environment, it is essential to combine effective eu projects and actions to tackle major challenges. it is also important to maintain the union's firm stance on sanctions against russia. i therefore welcome the conclusion by the european council of the agreement on the implementation of the permanent structured cooperation mechanism pesco and the establishment of a european defence industrial development programme. both initiatives are an opportunity to increase the military capabilities of european countries and increase investment in defence. finally, i would like to ask whether the new projects and the increased involvement of the member states of the european union are consistent with their obligations to nato.
the council decided that pesco should be inclusive and ambitious, i.e. involving many countries in cooperation while delivering tangible results. how can we do that? i believe that the criteria for participation and the governance of pesco must be negotiated to ensure that the countries have an equal say in the development of cooperation, in particular in military capacity building programmes and the sustainable development of the defence industry of all the eu countries. secondly, attempts to use pesco as a cover to soften the commitments made in nato are unacceptable. this, together with the lack of synchronisation of pesco with nato's defence planning process, could seriously undermine the political coherence of the alliance. and from the point of view of the security of the eastern flank, the projects to support the mobility of troops and equipment initiated under pesco should be subject to greater scrutiny. harmonious action and rapid decision-making on this issue is crucial for the security of central and eastern europe.
mr. chairman, please! politicians are very willing to say what people like to hear. and that is precisely the subject of the common defence policy. but let's talk about the realities of the subject. politics is competition, so in a sense, threats and conflicts are the nature and essence of politics. moreover, on a global scale, politics is the very field that generates conflict and threat. and these threats are very different for different countries: completely different for greece, different for poland, different somewhere in belgium or the netherlands. so the implementation of something like a common defence policy is just another step on the road to the abolition of the sovereignty of the european states. and that's the truth of the process that we're starting. the european countries have already been deprived of the ability to decide on monetary, fiscal and legislative policies. foreign and defence policy will be taken away and the european states will become fiction. europe will resemble the united states, but only in the sense that european countries will resemble some kind of american indian reservation. every reservation will have different songs and different costumes, but they won't be states anymore. and unfortunately, in politics, they don't just beat the guy who gives up without a fight. this is what the european union is offering europe. it was a disaster!
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. every year we evaluate european foreign policy in this room, and one of the elements of that policy is, of course, security and defence policy. in principle, these assessments were cautious and critical. it was clear to the naked eye that the union's capabilities were no match for the ever-increasing scale of the tasks and the ever-increasing complexity of the challenge of ensuring the security of the union and of europe. finally, this year, we can say that there is a chance to overcome this weakness, to work together in a real and stronger way. this is confirmed, among other things, by the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (pesco) at last. if we are to consider what this cooperation can bring, i would like to draw attention to the fact that in the long term, the effects on research and development and the implementation of new technologies may be particularly important. because today we have two problems. the first is that defence spending in europe is too low, and the second is that the money that is too little is being spent very badly. this is illustrated by the fact that all the eu countries spend 40% of the us defence budget each year, and the efficiency is unfortunately only 15%. so if this cooperation is effective and real, and not just a facade, then i think we have a chance to break these trends, that europe has a chance to have more autonomy in security and defence. and if we could do that together, it would be a great success.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the same theme is repeated over and over again in our discussion today: the building of alternative, and in the first stage perhaps simply parallel, military structures to the atlantic alliance in europe. some are very happy about it, others are very afraid. and i propose to ask one realistic question: will such even alternative - let alone parallel - military structures replace the united states in these most inflammatory, most sensitive points for european security? so far, we've seen something different in eastern ukraine. at the minsk peace talks, the most important countries in the european union very readily agreed to russia's wish that neither poland nor any of the other one-quarter of the european union countries that directly neighbour russia or ukraine should be there. let's get the solidarity first. then we'll build the instruments.
do we have a right to be optimistic? not in my estimation. we have a duty to be realistic and it is worthwhile to look at the previous reports, the votes and the results of the adoption of the previous reports. we're probably going to have the same situation in some sense, where we're going to take a report, we're going to take a measure of satisfaction with some kind of progress, and what's going to be critical is the next day, the day of implementation. i have to say that in the european parliament today we are de facto debating three issues at once: the creation of a common defence policy is practically new after the experience of crimea, after the experience of ukraine, after the experience of migrants and terrorism. secondly, we are paying attention to the need for new technology, our own research programmes, our own strengthening of the defence industry and how important this new technology is for improving the security of us europeans. and the third element is cooperation with nato. and so, clearly, what we're talking about today is not a replacement for nato, it's not a duplication of functions, it's the right one, this additional component that is supposed to build the security policy. and the last thing that worries me about the room. too often security policy is equated with defence policy. security spending, defense spending, is not always and not necessarily military spending.
the years 2016 and 2017 are indeed the turning points for the common security and defence policy. i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs and say that we are all convinced that defence and security policy will not be in contradiction with what nato is doing. we believe that these actions should be coordinated. today, with tensions rising, a renewed common security and defence policy may be the missing common denominator for many countries. the fact that 25 member states have signed it is clear evidence of this. furthermore, it seems to me that the initiatives of the common security and defence policy must respect the specificity of the member states, involve them widely and not necessarily divide them, although there are often differences in some areas. as for the fund, i would say that it should give an opportunity not only to large companies but also to small and medium-sized enterprises. i therefore thank you for the provision in article 22 of the european parliament's report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy did not mention the western or slavic brotherhood maneuvers directly. there is also no mention of the russian federation's breach of the inf treaty or the deployment of iskander missiles on the border with poland. the commission is proposing far-reaching instruments to establish a defence union. i understand the defense ambitions of the eu member states. however, for many years i have considered that a common understanding of the risks is a prerequisite. in this respect, nato remains the leading defence alliance. this is evidenced by the 'rapid trident' maneuvers, in which a real effort to demonstrate unity in the face of russian aggression in eastern ukraine and the 'west' maneuvers were undertaken by the us-led coalition, with the participation of bulgaria, estonia, georgia, canada, lithuania, moldova, norway, poland, romania, turkey, ukraine, the united kingdom and italy. there were the countries of the alliance on both sides of the atlantic, the former countries of my region, including the ones that have been the target of russian aggression for years, georgia and moldova. it was also eagerly criticized by some capitals of turkey. the main advocates of european defence integration and 'strategic autonomy' were absent.
mr. chairman, please! the less predictable president trump's policies are, the more responsibility lies with the european union. we're talking about the most inflammatory region in the world today, where all kinds of threats to our security are being born. as head of the delegation for relations with iran, i am pleased that the european union is speaking with one voice on a matter as fundamental as the nuclear agreement. so there's no problem with getting a phone number to europe. i believe that this agreement is a victory of patient, disciplined diplomacy and a real pillar of the international non-proliferation strategy, and a victory for those forces in iran who are committed to the gradual opening up of this great country and its modernization. and it is in this spirit of 'engagement, not disengagement' that we spoke with the authorities of the parliament and the government during our recent visit to tehran. the talks not only covered issues that could bring them closer together, but also raised the most contentious issues, namely, first of all, iran's ambiguous role in such a volatile region, secondly, the abuse of the death penalty, and thirdly, human rights in a broad sense. mr. ahmadreza djalali was also on my list of topics to discuss in my conversations with various officials of the country. tomorrow, there will also be an opportunity to raise this issue in a videoconference with the iranian ambassador to the european union. but the dialogue is winning. i hope so.
madam president! vice president mogherini said that we've known for a long time what's going on in libya, you didn't have to watch cnn. so the question is, what have we been doing all this time? i remember that more than two and a half years ago the european council said that we would start fighting against illegal human trafficking. and wasn't it tolerance for this practice, wasn't it the activities of the soros fleet that encouraged these people somewhere in africa to go on a journey to the libyan trap? today, practical steps are needed, and it is good that we are talking about them. but if we do not really restore responsibility - including political responsibility - in the work of the european union, then such tragedies will change places, but they will multiply. so i say again: it's time to take responsibility, it's time to think about the consequences of the beautiful words that are sometimes spoken.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, i would like to speak on behalf of vice-president mogherini. we are living in extremely difficult times for human rights all around the world. we are facing a global problem. one could even call it a political or cultural problem. when we europeans raise human rights issues with our interlocutors, sometimes they tell us: ‘you europeans are the only ones who still care about human rights. why do you keep doing this?’ some countries are questioning the council of europe and the very idea of a continental system to watch over human rights. some have withdrawn from the international criminal court, although many others have redeclared their commitment to it. human rights may be a difficult undertaking, but by no means a desperate one. for every bad story there are also many good stories, often less reported. let me assure you, we may sometimes feel alone as a force for human rights, but we do not intend to change course. if you look at the european union annual report on human rights and democracy, and the european parliament’s report, it is clear that we all agree on the analysis of the situation. the timing of the european union report was not ideal this year, as antonio panzeri pointed out in his recent letter. this year, as you know, the european union report was postponed because of the mid-term review of the action plan on human rights and democracy. to improve our report and its impact, we will deliver a streamlined and much shorter report next year. we will focus on thematic issues and use country-specific examples rather than going through each country one by one. our next report will be tabled in the spring of 2018. today, we would like to focus on three issues in particular. the first is civil society and the role of human rights defenders. in your report, you highlighted that the space for civil society is shrinking in many parts of the world and you called for the eu to use all means to protect human rights defenders and ngos. even on the occasion of our forum with ngos last week, there were friends and colleagues who were not allowed to travel and to join us in brussels. what we keep hearing is that old narrative of a clash between interests and values, but whenever one person’s rights are abused we are less safe and secure. our society, when human rights are not guaranteed, is more fragile, less resilient and an easier target for radicalisation. investing in human rights, in civil society and in open societies is the best possible investment for the security of our countries. it is what we call sustainable security, security with deep roots in societies and communities. looking at the mid-term review of the action plan on human rights and democracy, which was published in june 2017, it is evident that we have taken a number of measures to address this issue. all our european delegations today have at least one human rights defenders liaison officer. they have worked together to support human rights defenders who were put on trial. in many cases we have helped them leave a country when their life was at risk. the protection of human rights defenders in civil society is also frequently the topic of our human rights dialogue with third countries. we would like to thank, once again, our special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, who has helped us keep a constant focus on human rights issues all around the world. the second issue is violence against women and girls. no continent is spared. every culture, including our european culture, still harbours some forms of discrimination and violence. one in three women in europe has experienced either physical, sexual, or emotional violence. the european union is already, and by far, the first investor in gender equality and change around the world. let me just mention two recent initiatives. first, we are extremely proud of our decision to sign the council of europe’s istanbul convention. second, the spotlight initiative launched by the european union last september with the united nations is a truly unprecedented action, for the size of our investment, which stands at half a billion euros, and for its innovative way of working. spotlight will be run together by several european union agencies and european union services, and with our delegations around the world. we will engage beyond governments, with civil society organisations and local communities. this is not a traditional, top-down development assistance, because a change in attitudes cannot be imposed from above. it can only grow from the heart of each society and each community. our third point is about democracy support and election observation. we would like to thank all of you who have spent energy and time as heads or observers of our election observation missions. as rightly pointed out in your report, a special focus is now given to the follow-up of our missions’ recommendations. these recommendations are now always raised in our political dialogues with partner countries. we are also working with local associations and institutions. our engagement with local authorities goes well beyond the moment when ballots are counted. too often, part of our societies feel that the ‘system’ is not working for them. many people have the impression that they are not listened to and they are losing trust in their institutions. this feeling of exclusion is one of the great enemies of our democracies. if we want to save our democracies we must also improve our democracies. when we work for better institutions, or to open up the space for civil society or for free and independent media, we are also contributing to resilience and to sustainable security. this is the european way to security. it is about our values and it is about our interest. in these difficult times, we have become an even more indispensable partner for all those who believe in human rights and work for them. the commission is sure that with your support we will continue to be the credible force for human rights that the world so urgently needs.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to thank the author of today's report on human rights in 2016. true, as the rapporteur said, it was filed late, because it was over a year after the events. it's hard to get a good distance between these events. at the same time, i would like to thank both the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs for their efforts to find these key points of importance in this annual report. in particular, i note the priority given to freedom of religion and belief and the persecution that follows. religion is not the direct cause of conflict, but it is often used as a tool in conflict. i think we have to stand up to this, and freedom of religion is a fundamental value of freedom, it's a human right that should be respected in all its fullness. i also want to say that we should always remember that the death penalty is still being carried out, that human trafficking is also a disgrace on a global scale, in particular what we heard in the report on the situation in libya, in other parts of the world. the situation of people in post-conflict areas like iraq and syria, the difficulty of adapting, of returning to their homeland. in addition, the situation of minorities, such as the situation of the rohingya muslim minority in myanmar, which is also discussed here in this parliament, and the phenomenon of the relationship between big business, entrepreneurship and people in certain areas. the phenomenon of land grabbing we have a shameful thing that the indigenous people are deprived of the right to land. i think that the phenomena outlined in the report, and those we remember from the debate in this house, should be commemorated every year, especially as we are to award the sakharov prize for freedom of thought tomorrow to the venezuelan opposition, among others.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i have listened with appreciation to the commissioner's statement, which demanded or demanded a more economical and concise report. in fact, we should defend what is fundamental. europe must always come to the aid of those who are destroying whole communities in religious and ethnic wars, and must call for the freedom of religion, which is being violated in many parts of the world. christians are the main victims of this persecution. we need to be everywhere where human rights violations occur in large-scale displacement processes related to refugees. finally, we should come to the aid of all those who are repressed, imprisoned for their political beliefs. at the same time, we should avoid bias, and i can't agree with congressman solé in any way, who is attacking the trump administration, promoting reproductive rights, which are essentially a violation of the human right to life. let's fight for what's fundamental, let's avoid what's partial.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on this very good report. as she mentioned, 2016 was undoubtedly a difficult year for human rights and democracy, but as the previous debate on the refugee situation in libya showed, it is a system of interconnected vessels. i would like to focus on africa, because i think what the commissioner said is the apparent shrinking of space for civil society or social organisations, which is a consequence of the repression of peaceful protests in countries like congo, nigeria, ethiopia and sudan (just to name a few), but also of the persecution of journalists and human rights defenders. the armed conflicts in africa are not only the victims of civilians, but also, and above all, the sexual violence against women and the recruitment of child soldiers. these and similar cases and phenomena are obviously contributing to mass migration both within africa itself and, of course, to europe, and that is why i think that promoting human rights on the african continent is one of the main challenges for us too, in the european interest. i would like to thank the rapporteur for having emphasized in her report the fact that the european union is cooperating with africa at this level as well. although many civil society and human rights organizations on the african continent are still young, i believe that supporting them can really give a chance to act effectively and can solve, and help solve the problems of these african countries in accordance with international standards, while ensuring respect, cultural conditioning and building civil society.
madam president! thirty-six years ago, on december 13, 1981, a newborn democracy in poland was murdered, martial law was declared. years passed, and in 1989 we returned to the path of building democracy and the rule of law. we've been on it for 25 years. and it was also during this period that other countries in europe started to build democracy, develop civil society, respect human rights. unfortunately, it seems that in many places around the world, we are once again turning our backs on these great ideas. there is a growing number of repressive governments, repressive laws, a lack of respect for each other, a lack of respect for human rights and civil society. unfortunately, this process also affects some member states. so if we want to be the future ambassadors of democracy and human rights around the world, we have to deal with these issues at home as well.
in writing. statistics show that eu citizens consume several hundred tonnes of meat in kebabs every day. we have to remember that the market for kebab meat is the companies that are operating in that market, and behind each company are numerous jobs in the food industry, which we have to keep in mind when we look at the economic aspects of this issue. however, the results of the studies carried out do not allow a clear cause and effect relationship between the risk of disease and the consumption of phosphate. i believe that consumer decisions should be based on reliable information about products offered for sale and whose consumption can affect our health. therefore, we must be cautious in making final decisions on whether or not to ban phosphate additives and instead of making this choice today, let efsa reassess the safety of phosphate additives in food, which is to be done by 31 december 2018. remember, one serving of kebab contains about 134 milligrams of phosphate, so if you ate it regularly for a year, you would consume the same amount of phosphate as a pint of coca-cola. we are exposed to harmful substances every day, but responsible consumption and information campaigns, for example, allow us to make informed consumer choices and at the same time take care of the health of eu citizens.
madam president, last week the british prime minister managed to avoid a ‘no deal’ scenario but the risk remains and there is still a long way. we are at the beginning of an arduous, complex, intensive process of drafting the withdrawal agreement with a number of issues of relevance remaining outstanding. we also have ahead transition negotiations and the future relationship is still to be identified. the most difficult is yet to come. the transition period raises many legal issues which will have to be considered with the highest caution. it will have to provide for connection with the future framework, foreseeable at that time, and the talks on transition will precede the negotiations on the future relationship, so there is no reason to call transition an implementation phase. but transition is not only about bridging with the future framework; it has its own challenges. it is true that there is no time to negotiate a bespoke transition agreement, so its major part will be the prolongation of the acquis, but it only looks simple. we have to bear in mind that the eu acquis is strongly interdependent in a legally and politically complex way and this is a challenge in itself, but there will also be parts of the transition deal going beyond prolongation of the acquis, and this will require in my view a strong credible joint oversight mechanism with a strong role for the european commission on our side.
madam president! today we are seeing progress in two important areas: defence: the establishment of permanent structured cooperation (pesco), defence industrial cooperation, and a breakthrough in the negotiations with the uk. the european council in brussels on 17 november adopted a resolution on the european pillar of social rights, which is a key element of the european union's strategy for the future. and i think today, the physical sense of security associated with the threat of terrorism, with the tightness of borders, with migration, is going to be a more important battleground against populism than social security, because the economy is simply doing better. and if this social pillar is built on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and does not multiply promises which cannot be fulfilled at eu level, then that is fine. for example, if it is to strengthen erasmus+, university cooperation, recognition of qualifications, everything that serves mobility in the market, because this mobility in the common market is still not enough. but there are reasons why the slogan "social pillar" is a wake-up call for many countries, especially in the east. when the slogan of social dumping appears in his company and tough regulations are born, then the memory of the polish plumber, the polish plumber, who was launched as the main threat during the french referendum, comes back. now it turns out that truck drivers from the east or from spain or construction workers steal dream jobs from richer countries, which is not true. so i warn you that this kind of regulation, which can create a grey area, is also ammunition for populism. policy impact assessment is essential in building the social pillar.
madam president! it was a very passionate debate today, and it will be a very interesting european council tomorrow, because we have all seen how quickly the stars are falling in the european union. all these attacks on the president of the european council just because he said a few obvious things, that the forced relocation system doesn't work, show how easy it is to become an enemy of the european union. how easy it is to say about someone just because they say the obvious that they deny the whole integration. i'm surprised mr. tusk's political friends aren't coming to his defense. now let's get down to business. apart from the forced relocation of migrants, which is not really working, the right to asylum must remain the domain of the states, because, for example, no one has the right to declare that an egyptian muslim brotherhood activist is a political refugee who should be granted asylum.
in writing. this time, the next round of negotiations between the european commission and the uk was a success, moderate and late, but it's good that it was this year. the commission said that 'sufficient progress' had been made and in today's resolution the european parliament recommends that the council move to the second phase of talks on a future partnership agreement. the resolution also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. the uk's participation in the eu's flagship programme erasmus+ also remains important from the point of view of the group monitoring the cultural negotiations, which i chair. the uk receives 200,000 students from eu member states a year, representing 28% of all exchange students, and is the most popular destination. in addition, students who start their studies before the uk's withdrawal date must be confident that they will be able to complete their course on the same terms as they started it and that they will continue to have access to financial support on the same terms. another issue, which is particularly important because it affects thousands of young people, is the question of the recognition of education. students need to be confident that their qualifications will be recognised both in the eu and in the uk.
i understand this is a request to our technicians. there was two seconds, as i learned from the secretariat, different information, so we very much ask that you actually keep it longer. after the vote on paragraph 139:
i’ll do my best.
i hereby close the vote.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
ladies and gentlemen, it's 2:38 and 49 seconds, and at 2:45 we're gonna have to clear the floor. i'm sorry to say, but i'm not going to be able to let the speakers have their say on the second point. we just don't have enough time.
mr. chairman, please! more than 3 million eu citizens living in the uk have followed with great interest and concern the negotiations between the european commission and the united kingdom on their rights and the rights of their family members after brexit. progress appears to have been made in this area, but eu citizens still feel threatened. unfortunately, the uk authorities seem to be coming to terms with the reservation, so the european parliament must make it clear that respecting all agreements is key. citizens of the union should retain all their rights and this should be protected by the european court of justice. in the resolution, the european parliament calls on the uk to ensure that acquired rights apply not only to eu citizens already living in the uk and their current partners, but also to future ones. it is very important that a free declaration procedure is set up for eu citizens who wish to exercise their rights, for example a single form for the whole family. these are the necessary conditions, and that is why i very much supported parliament's resolution on this matter.
i hereby close the explanations of vote. (clarification on the vote will be continued in the plenary session on thursday 14 december 2017)
mr. chairman, please! the european pillar of social rights is an action strengthening the social dimension of the european union. this is a good direction, because europe is made up of its citizens, because europe is made up of people. however, i would like to stress that the social pillar should be treated as a roadmap. so it's a good thing it's in an illegal form. it should support the functioning of labour markets and social protection systems, while respecting national competences and the principle of subsidiarity, since it is the member states that are responsible for building social principles and rights and the european union can help in this respect. i would like to draw your attention to a very effective social programme being implemented by the polish government. thanks to the increase in wages, the decrease in unemployment, the 500+ program according to eurostat, we are now the first country in the eu to fight poverty. we're a good example.
mr. chairman, please! the european pillar of social rights comprises three categories of objectives and tasks, namely equal opportunities and access to employment, fair working conditions and social protection and inclusion. it's a good idea, it's a good document. it is very important that the document allows for the diversity of social policies in the member states. it is merely a guideline, not a uniform duty, in the creation of social standards. it is also a european response to the negative effects of globalisation as a fair balance between disparities. we are determined to make europe a true ambassador and model of social values. we are opposed to any attempt by the commission to unify the social security system in the individual member states of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! social development and improvements in living and working conditions are inextricably linked to economic development. sustainable and sustainable growth can be achieved by combining policies that support investment and stimulate employment, while supporting initiatives that strengthen social cohesion and reduce regional disparities. i therefore believe that it is right to integrate the european pillar of social rights into the economic governance process of the european semester. this will allow better monitoring of the implementation of the pillar's objectives and will send a clear signal to member states that social and employment aspects are inextricably linked to economic governance. the latest annual growth report shows positive trends, a decline in unemployment and a reduction in poverty. the european economy is back on the growth path and it is a good time to focus on increasing investment and productivity, which must be followed by rising wages and better working conditions. in this area, the union's task is to support member states in their reforms to stimulate growth and increase social inclusion, as they bear the primary responsibility for implementing the pillar's commitments. i also hope that in its action at eu level the commission will build on proven instruments such as the european social fund, which has almost a quarter of the total funding from the european union's structural and investment funds. it is also important to speed up the work on the european skills agenda.
in writing. in 2016, more than 40% of people employed in the eu were working under custom contracts or were self-employed. it is estimated that at least half of them do not have sufficient access to social protection and related benefits. the european pillar of social rights, which is part of the european commission's work towards a deeper and fairer economic and monetary union, should contribute to the proper application of international labour standards and to the modernisation of the social acquis. in addition, the standards contained in the european pillar of social rights should be applied in all countries participating in the single market and the legislation and management mechanisms needed to achieve them should apply to all eu member states. ensure that social protection systems are sustainable and equitable. workers must be protected, whether they are employed under standard contracts, new types of contracts or self-employed.
in writing. the president of the european commission has identified the establishment of a social pillar within the union as one of the priorities of his mandate. this is a noble idea, because everyone should be protected, regardless of gender, place of residence or job. the disparities between women and men, urban and rural, and between full-time and flexible employment are very high. we need good solutions within the framework of the subsidiarity principle. the document defined at the gothenburg summit contains noble ideas and good proposals. it should be agreed that everyone has the right to quality education, training and lifelong learning in order to maintain and acquire the skills that will enable them to cope effectively with changes in the labour market. this is extremely important, because in the coming years we will see radical changes associated with the development of new technologies and the increasing automation and robotization of the economy. only quality education and lifelong learning are the right answers to these challenges. and we have to accept that the era of the full-time worker is coming to an end. innovative forms of employment should therefore be encouraged, but only those that guarantee high quality working conditions. however, action in these areas should be undertaken taking into account the specificities of individual countries and regions.
mr. chairman, please! it's been a little over two years since the goals were announced. so he is happy to see that five of the 17 have already made significant progress. this is a good prognosticator, which gives hope that the targets set for 2030 will be achieved. but the first positive signs should not be an impulse to become complacent. first of all, the eurostat report indicated that for almost every single objective there are indicators that have remained unchanged or even deteriorated in recent years. the lack of progress in reducing inequality and poverty is particularly worrying. the union is a model for other countries of a well-managed social policy. however, it is clear that there is still a lot of room for improvement in this area. moreover, the european union should not only focus on achieving its own objectives, but also work with the un and other countries to achieve sustainable development in developing countries.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the members of parliament for their engagement in this important debate. i would like to stress that for the commission the importance of achieving the sustainable development goals (sdgs) is beyond dispute. the council has invited the commission to prepare for the first eu report on the internal and external implementation of the 2030 agenda by the eu at the united nations high-level political forum by 2019. we are starting to prepare for this report with the reflection paper due in the second half of 2018. the reflection paper is part of the discussion on the future of europe. it will include the reflection on the implementation of the sustainable development goals and of the paris agreement on climate change as well as the reflection on economic and societal changes. i repeat that this reflection paper will be accompanied by a ‘distance-to-sdgs’ analysis to provide, besides the trends, also an understanding of the distance we still need to cover. the commission also established, as you know, the sdg multi-stakeholder platform, and there the european parliament and the council will be closely associated with the work. you will be engaged via the relevant institutional fora. moreover, in relation to development policy, the commission will produce a joint synthesis report with member states on our implementation of the consensus, including the impact of their actions in support of the 2030 agenda in developing countries, as a contribution to the eu reporting to the high-level political forum. some honourable members mentioned that there are no data for four indicators. it is true that those data are missing. eurostat is working on it, together with the united nations, to define those missing indicators. i can tell you that in europe we have much more data than is available at the united nations. however, in some cases, data series do not exist and therefore we cannot now show progress in the last five years – i hope it will be progress we can show and not regress, of course. i can tell you that in the future this will be possible, and it will also be possible – i say it again, also possible – to look at the distance from goal. let me tell you also that the current list of indicators is not fixed in stone; indicator development will continue and the eu framework will be adapted accordingly. mr president, dear members of parliament, mr minister, having said this, the sdgs are sharply formulated goals, and those goals address the main questions of our time. we all know that. making progress on them is not easy and does not come quickly. that should not be a surprise to any of us. but we also know that we have to measure to know, and indeed monitoring our performance is the first step to knowing where we stand, which in turn is the first step to making progress, and that first step is now taken. i am looking forward to continuing to work together with all of you on the many, many next steps on our way.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the debate today shows the key importance of coherent and objective monitoring if we want to be serious about implementation of this transformative 2030 agenda. but we need to have a truthful and objective measure and assessment of our performance and progress in line with the united nations requirements. to that end, future reports should provide indications about the gaps to targets and not just about trends. this is key. i can assure mr leinen that the new dedicated working party in the council will also look at the issue of accountability. i am very happy to hear the commission being responsive to the council’s call to prepare a fully-fledged strategy outlining timelines, objectives and concrete measures to reflect the implementation of the 2030 agenda in all relevant eu internal and external policies.
in writing. the eurostat report on progress towards the eu's sustainable development goals shows that we have achieved a lot in this area, but there is still much to be done. progress under objective 3, which includes increasing life expectancy and reducing deaths from chronic diseases, is welcomed. the increasingly successful implementation of goal 7, which is linked to reduced energy consumption and increased use of renewable sources, also provides a good outlook for the future. on the other hand, the report shows that more needs to be done to achieve goal 1, particularly towards reducing the number of people at risk of poverty. i hope that the current improvement in economic conditions will help to deal with the effects of the financial crisis, which we are still feeling. the unsatisfactory performance in this and other areas shows that the eu and its countries must do everything possible to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals, while supporting partner countries in this regard. research by ngos shows that almost 40% of member states do not plan to adopt national strategies for implementing the sdgs. i would therefore like to ask the governments of the member states to set up plans and coordination structures for the implementation of the objectives, which will allow progress to be made where it has not been sufficient so far.
mr. chairman, please! we cannot pretend not to see, and we cannot allow in our countries, where we have been elected, the tolerance for barbaric behaviour of a fascist nature zero tolerance. today marks 36 years since the communist government imposed martial law in poland, and once again in warsaw, the parliament is barricaded with metal barriers and police cordon to prevent those who demonstrate support for free courts and democracy from approaching it. the same police also protect the marches organized by the national radical camp and on these marches are carried banners with fascist slogans such as "europe only white" or "pure blood". and this logo that i'm showing you now, it's reminiscent of the nightmarish anti-semitism of the 1930s, in which this same national radical camp was actively involved; it organized, for example, university ghettos for jewish students; and this logo is still in use. many of you have heard and commented with concern on the symbolic hanging of the pictures of six of us meps from poland. the police stood around, watched and didn't intervene. can we talk about this calmly? i call for action to be taken to outlaw neo-fascist organisations and for a europe-wide ban on the promotion of nazi and fascist symbols and slogans. it's not that far from words and gestures to deeds.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has already mentioned - and i am addressing this to mr avramopoulos - 13 december, the day when the communist authorities threw thousands of people into prison in poland. i didn't sleep at my house that night, and that's the only reason i wasn't there. my parents had, there was the communist police, there was the dormitory where i lived, even in this apartment that i had moved out of a year before. but that's not what i want to talk about. i am recalling this date because it should be the name of the table that lists communism and bolshevism against other forms of totalitarianism, and it is not a credit to this parliament to omit them. and i say this because, mr president, i have called on the european commission to condemn in a clear, unequivocal way the extremist demonstration that took place a month ago in paris, in a paris hotel. in the presence of the current mayor of paris, in the presence of the previous prime minister, leading activists of the socialist party honored inna shevchenko, a woman who spilt a cross in a place commemorating thousands of victims murdered by the nkvd. mr. chairman, please! if we are serious about this debate, this grim demonstration must be condemned, because it was not a group of young people. there was the former prime minister of france and there was the current mayor of the french capital. condemn it clearly, and the lack of condemnation here will be a form of approval. you can't keep quiet! (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
blue-card question. – do you not think that ‘nazi’ is a symbol, exactly like the swastika, so it should also be forbidden? you should name it national socialism, as socialism is the essence of the hitlerist doctrine, and as stalin, hitler and mao zedong and others killed ten times more people than adolf hitler, then a red flag, hammer and sickle and a red star should also be forbidden if the swastika is to be forbidden. moreover, don’t you think that forbidden fruit is very attractive? moreover, i think that the european union should be destroyed.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. the lord will send! i focused on this grim demonstration in paris because the previous french prime minister and the current mayor of paris (leading socialist party politician) were there, but of course i think it's a very strange situation that we are talking here, when we saw posters with the hammer and sickle, the communist equivalent of the swastika, in the corridors of this parliament a month ago. we saw the image of che guevara, the executioner of the cuban counter-revolution, the man responsible for exporting the revolution and spreading it to other countries. this is not a normal situation and it does not reflect the sincerity of the debate we are having. i'm counting on your strong voice on this grim demonstration in paris.
in writing. the high chamber! i represent polish citizens in the european parliament. some of them still have chilling memories of the nazi german occupation of poland. for this reason, i am in favour of a complete ban on the use of fascist and nazi symbols at all levels. the historical education of the younger generation plays an important role here and the historical truth must be conveyed to them in a reliable manner. it's the only way to make the younger generation aware of the suffering that fascist symbols bring. this is the only way to effectively prevent radicalism and extremism. the european commission needs to better monitor the implementation by member states of eu legislation obliging them to criminalise, among other things, fascist and nazi behaviour. that is why i call for an immediate ban on the use of fascist and nazi symbols at european level.
in writing. history teaches that the consequence of all crises is the unleashing of radical attitudes. this is because for some politicians, the time of crisis is the only chance to build their own position. their irresponsible rhetoric arouses negative emotions that provide fertile ground for all kinds of radical attitudes. they discourage those who, feeling unfulfilled, rejected or unaccepted, unthinkingly accept the arguments of the most radical populists for the sake of easily pointing the finger at their own failures. we know these mechanisms well from history. and paradoxically, it is history that once again gives populists the model of the worst attitudes. there's a debate about how to deal with hateful, xenophobic attitudes and prevent them from spreading. especially since - and this is another paradox - the greatest achievements of democracy, such as freedom of assembly and freedom of speech, become arguments for radical circles to defend their own status quo. it is therefore vital to analyse in depth all the underlying causes of rising nationalistic attitudes in order to develop rules for dealing effectively with the organisations and individuals who promote and cultivate them. postponing the problem 'until later' can lead to uncontrollable levels of stress.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is true that i am a member of the european people’s party but i speak here today as chair of the committee on constitutional affairs under whose responsibility and competence this dossier falls. i would like to start by saying that we have been insisting, without success, for more than three years and five council presidencies now, on an interinstitutional process of dialogue being opened with the council and the commission on the regulation of the european parliament on the right of inquiry. recent events and the work of our two latest inquiry committees – which the commissioner mentioned, emission measurements in the automotive sector (emis) and money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana) – have shown that we need new and more efficient rules on the role and powers of european parliament committees of inquiry if we want to have effective public inquiries on matters that, by their very nature, go beyond the competence of national institutions. parliament voted today with a sweeping majority on establishing a permanent committee of inquiry. public opinion requires those inquiries. this means that it is indeed politically important, not only politically difficult. to have clear rules is also in the interest of other institutions and also people who are called to testify in general in this parliament. it will bring transparency and legal certainty to the procedures of inquiry, and yet we have been waiting now for more than three years, not to conclude the procedure but just to sit at the table and discuss whether an agreement is at all possible. that is why we drafted this oral question. we are not asking the council and the commission to agree with us. we are asking them to sit at the table and negotiate. that is how problems are solved in the european union and we have a duty to try at least to do so. on this we count on the bulgarian presidency.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there's been a lot of talk about trust in this debate, and i'm a big supporter of that. the european union needs trust between its institutions, between the eu level and the states. that should be a matter of restraint rather than radicalism. unfortunately, the first submission in this case is tainted with radicalism. commissioner avramopoulos has mentioned these dilemmas and problems. i would also like to say one more thing, namely that the european parliament has the right to control the eu institutions, whereas there is no treaty basis for it to exercise control and investigative functions vis-à-vis the national institutions. it would be a mix-up. it also does not have the powers of the committees of inquiry of national parliaments. so i believe very strongly that restraint and withdrawal from certain proposals will give us the opportunity to have a rational discussion and to reach a good solution, but the ball is rather in the european parliament's court.
thank you very much indeed, minister. that was probably your last speech in our house before the end of your country’s presidency. thank you very much indeed – or ‘aitäh’ as you say in your language – for your efforts in our common european interest.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs anna corazza bildt on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the implementation of directive 2011/93/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 on the prevention of the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography (2015/2129 ((ini)) (a8-0368/2017)
the question asked by raising the blue card. i know you gave your good speech in good faith, but don't you think we should really give up on this language, on these notions of so-called sex tourism and stand up to it? after all, an abused, depraved child, often given away by loved ones to some pervert who goes off on a so-called sex tour, is no tourist attraction. really, listen, the one thing we always control is our language, so let's not use language that trivializes evil. i hope we're on the same page.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs annie maria corazza bildt, on her excellent report on the implementation of the directive on combating sexual offences against children, including child pornography and online crime. reporting one year late due to delays in member states' implementation of this directive. i wonder what might slow down the implementation of laws against the most heinous forms of sexual violence, in which children are the victims. the age of the children who are abused - we know this from the studies - is steadily decreasing: 70% of the victims have not even entered puberty, and there are victims who are not even two years old. i would like to point out here that in addition to child pornography websites, including those hosted on servers outside the european union, which the directive requires to be blocked or removed by the member states, there is a huge and growing plague of sexual crimes against children on the dark net or, if we wish, on the deep web, on the tor network. we're talking about an illegal, hidden area of the internet that provides complete anonymity. there are tens of thousands of transactions involving child pornography, including rape and sexual torture of children. this is an area of crime that has not been explored and requires immediate action, and i am calling on the services of the european commission and the member states to do so.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i'd like to thank annie marie for her work. this is a very important direction. all pornographic crimes, especially those against children, are always transnational in nature, so this is an area which should be particularly addressed by international institutions such as our parliament. that's why it's good that we're going in that direction. but we're not going to solve this problem effectively unless we get rid of the bottom of it, which is the deeply sick, pornographic nature of our culture. we all know that josef fritzl was a pathological pornographer. he was also obsessed with pornography and tortured his entire family, daughters, granddaughters. we're watching the weinstein affair and we're hearing the confessions of the big stars, people we often admire and know, wives whose husbands brought prostitutes home to have a threesome with them. will these people be safe parents to their children? we really need to remove the root of this disease, to restore the health of our culture, the respect for sex, the respect for love, so profoundly desecrated in our time. i'll support all the work you do, all the activities, but i would like to count on the same solidarity. i very much regret that in this report, which is already very valuable, many of my conclusions have been omitted. it's a good thing there were any.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 14 december 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. it's time to stop dodging the issue and pretend it doesn't exist. the scale of crimes involving the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography continues to increase, especially on the internet. we must therefore take all measures to ensure that such crimes are effectively prosecuted and that those responsible are punished. the internet cannot be a safe haven for crimes against children. the pursuit of online crime cannot be held back by misconceptions of free speech and freedom of the internet. exploiting childhood naivety and trust to solicit and solicit for sexual purposes condemns children to lifelong trauma. therefore, cooperation is needed not only between law enforcement authorities but also between the owners of online portals, platforms and communities in order to prevent and effectively prosecute such offences. it is also important to raise awareness of the dangers of the internet, not only among children themselves, but also among parents, teachers and all those who work with children on a daily basis. the report by mrs corraza bildt examines in detail the implementation of eu law in the member states in the area of combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography and unfortunately indicates how far we still have to go to ensure effective protection for our youngest citizens.
mr president, petitions are one of the few instruments where the institutions come into direct contact with citizens. the committee on petitions, in this context, acts as a check on eu policies as they are implemented in each member state. moreover, i think that, by analysing the petitions received, parliament can use this information effectively to better understand the legislative process of the european union and to prepare better legislation, but also how this legislation reflects on the lives of european citizens. the right to petition is a fundamental right. it is a basic element of a functioning participatory democracy which, when acted upon with fairness and transparency, can contribute not only to a consolidation of representative democracy, but also to enhancing the stature of parliament as an institution in the public eye. i think the involvement of citizens in this action, where we directly connect them to parliament, has a positive impact on the citizens. i think they perceive their parliament as a meaningful place of interaction. in the end, i think we can do better. i think that with the petitions committee we can act together to strive to improve our support to citizens in the future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is an excellent point. i think visibility and proper transparency – the proper transfer of information – is crucial. so in our work it is essential to make sure that our citizens know as much as possible. if we do that, then we make everything much easier.
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. reducing emissions in the transport sector requires a huge effort, but it should be spread over years. any action should take into account the complex nature of the sector and the financial capacity of the member states. the solutions that mr eickhout is proposing to us are largely 'paper tigers' - at first sight impressive in their scale and certainly full of good intentions, but extremely difficult to implement quickly and effectively across the european union, not just in the richest few countries. in many cases, the price for an overly ambitious and hastily implemented low-carbon transport policy will be paid by consumers in the cost of train or plane tickets, in the cost of running a private car, or in the price of every product that is brought into our suburban shops every day. for many companies, which will have to replace entire fleets of used vehicles to meet strict climate standards, this can mean difficult costs to bear. it could mean the end of their business. the ecr group cannot support a report that takes such a small amount of account of the financial implications of the proposed solutions. we are in favour of evolutionary climate solutions, adapted to the european economy and a reasonable timetable. unfortunately, this report does not meet those criteria.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. vietnam is a communist country, and that has consequences. communism is political tyranny, but it is also revolutionary mobilization of the masses, which in its caricatured form in periods of already established despotism means forcing people to constantly manifest support, and it is finally a utopia which again in its caricatured realization forbids the telling of the most elementary truths. nguyen van hoa fell victim to what we saw in belarus over 30 years ago: you can't warn people even about natural disasters or ecological disasters that threaten people. we cannot agree to this power of lies. if vietnam is to be treated as a country cooperating with europe, it must step away from these practices and we must therefore demand the release of nguyen van hoa.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. el salvador is a free, democratic country that wants to protect life. and el salvador's status as a free, democratic country is confirmed by the rankings of the economist and freedom house. it's the state that wants to protect life, and that's why it's being attacked. it's time for this house to stop this incitement against the right to life. and when it is finished one day in europe and in this parliament, then the conditions will really be created for us to talk about practical, technical ways of protecting life, because if you affirm the right to life, then of course you can discuss how to do it. ireland, poland, malta, el salvador, they all have their own ways of doing it. and precisely because this law needs to be strengthened, we in poland want to change it and improve it, make poland an even safer country for those who protect life. and as for el salvador, it's time we stopped attacking countries whose only fault is that they defend human rights.
the author. - madam president! - i have to go. today we are talking about el salvador, a small central american country that has only recently, in 1998, passed a law that completely bans abortion. it means that even a woman who has been raped or whose pregnancy is life-threatening cannot terminate it. it's a very cruel law that subjects women and treats them with contempt, and that in el salvador is interpreted in a way that ignores the principles of justice, the presumption of innocence and scientific knowledge. well, women who experience a miscarriage or stillbirth are accused of abortion or infanticide and are sentenced to long prison terms. pregnancy is a tragedy for a salvadoran woman, especially if she is unmarried and still a child herself. fear of the consequences of pregnancy has led many girls to commit suicide. in el salvador, suicide is the cause of more than half of all deaths among pregnant women between the ages of 10 and 19. many women die from complications of pregnancy. any pregnancy disorder immediately raises suspicion and accusations of attempted abortion or foetal death, so women with difficult pregnancies simply avoid doctors. i call on the salvadoran authorities to stop the inhuman treatment of women, to pass a law providing for an exception to the ban on abortion and to release from prison women imprisoned there for acts that cannot be considered crimes in the light of international standards of law and medical knowledge. madam president! i would like to add just one more sentence in response to what mr marek jurek said. i would like to say that i hope that polish law will never come close to the law that is currently in force in el salvador. and i would like to point out that the attempts to introduce such a law have brought 100,000 women to the streets in the black march and thousands of women around the world who have shown solidarity with the poles. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. you heard a moment ago that a child is part of a woman's body. you said in your party's state program that the right to life should be protected as in poland. these are judgments of the polish constitutional court. is this really just a paper trail for voters? why do you not react when you hear incitement against the right to life?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not sure. i would like to point out that polish law contains three exceptions to the abortion ban. these are the exceptions that we are fighting for right now in el salvador, and that make it possible to construct a law that is conservative and that protects life, but also that recognizes that women are living beings and citizens.
madam president! i would like to use the right of reply to the honourable member under rule 164 of the rules of procedure. i want to draw the attention of both soraya post and mp polčák that you are still relying on data provided by amnesty international. we are talking about an organisation which has also declared itself on many occasions in this parliament, for example in the libe committee, as a pro-abortion organisation, an organisation which treats the child not even as an organ of the woman's body but as an appendix which can be removed or not cosmetically at will. you really should listen to the explanations of the salvadoran authorities and not rely on this one-sided propaganda.
in writing. i voted in favour of a resolution on the dramatic effects of the introduction of a total ban on abortion in el salvador in 1998. such a law, which treats women as objects, is in itself inhuman and contrary to human rights. in addition, in el salvador, women who miscarry, give birth to a stillborn child, or experience complications during pregnancy are suspected and often accused of attempting to have an abortion or even of killing a child, and are sentenced to decades of harsh prison terms. calls for an international response to end these inhumane practices and for a change in the law could help salvadoran women to overcome their plight. it is worth noting here that the idea of a total ban on abortion is also being raised in public spaces in europe. in poland, in the autumn of 2016, they were even converted into a bill, which was submitted to the sejm and started its procedure, and many people from the ruling party publicly supported the project. the ruling party's support for the barbaric law has brought more than 100,000 polish women to the streets, and their protest has been met with solidarity by tens of thousands of women around the world, who have expressed their support through public statements posted on social media. i hope that, contrary to the intentions of some of the debaters in today's debate on the resolution, polish law will never come close to the one currently in force in el salvador.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the report, of course, which aims to step up action to protect children from sexual abuse, including online, and to criminalise it. especially since the sexual sphere is especially vulnerable to injury, resulting in serious disorders that can affect a person's entire life. however, i would point out that the proliferation of laws and directives will do little to help without the implementation of a christian family life, where children should experience true love that cannot be equated with the sexual act. unfortunately, the left-liberal sex education that is often promoted today has pornographic and demoralizing features, leading to a false vision of sexuality separated from procreation and love, resulting in psychosexual perversions.
