on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister and welcome the maltese presidency. you are starting your presidency in a very challenging context, with europe being surrounded by many sources of tension and, with the putin effect on the one hand and the trump effect on the other, the calls for nationalistic solutions. but we europeans really believe in united solutions, cooperative solutions, and european unity and solidarity are more important than ever. that is why this should be translated into an ambitious road map to be adopted in rome on 25 march 2017, because we need once and for all to assert the european union as a strong, economic, social, political and democratic power. we need to use the roadmap for this and to reconnect with our citizens with this purpose. we believe in our group that the road map should be an ambitious one, a progressive one. it means that if we start with the bratislava road map, which pointed out the need for strengthening european defence and security, we can agree with it but also say clearly that it is not enough. we need to have a road map where social europe is really at the heart to reconnect with citizens, making the best of the upcoming european pillar of social rights, and we need also to make sure that the growth and jobs strategy will be underpinned by a more powerful investment plan, aligned with sustainable development goals, and these goals should also inspire our development policy because this is the only way to go to the source of the oncoming migration wave. we need to cooperate with third countries, developing countries, to help them to address their development problems. this is the real root of the challenge coming from migration. and then of course, as you just mentioned, prime minister, another big test for your presidency is to come up with a real european asylum system where we can again restate our values, because we cannot go on like that. what is happening with refugees so far is shameful. and finally, we need to translate this into credible financial instruments, financial means, which means to align the community budget to support all these goals, and to make sure that eurozone member states also have the instruments to implement these objectives. so we are waiting for the commission white paper. we would like also to have a powerful and balanced reform of the economic and monetary union, and we count on your presidency to support this push. to conclude: a road map to prepare europe for the future, a road map to reconnect again with citizens, is in your hands.
mr president, i would naturally like to greet president antonio tajani and to wish him the very best of luck and i am sure that we will have two and a half years of an exemplary presidency. as regards the maltese presidency of the council, what i wanted to make clear here is essentially this: the stakes in resolving the refugee and migration crisis are very high and malta has many lessons to teach all the countries of the european union because it is facing the problem with a single vision because of its geographical situation. i regret that, despite being very focused on security, you have not spoken about common defence policy, a point which i think is essential for the next six months and let me now finally just make a point to mrs dalli to tell her that it is regrettable what she has said here about mr david casa, who defends the interests of malta with all his might and who is right because in this house there is a lot of concern about the suspicions of corruption that are going on around the maltese issue and so we are paying attention to the panama papers, we are paying attention to the issues of corruption in malta, now to say that mr casa is not a patriot, that is totally unacceptable and it is regrettable in a debate of this nature.
the programme of the maltese presidency, in the wake of its predecessors, highlights the deep and persistent crisis in the european union, which is an expression of the more general crisis of capitalism and which is simultaneously a crisis of the pillars and foundations of the eu itself, as the process of capitalist integration it is. it also highlights the lack of solutions to the problems affecting the peoples of europe - unemployment, poverty, exclusion, social inequalities and injustices, precariousness in work and life. this programme is also a cause for serious concern, given the clear prospect of further steps in the military and security escalation the eu has embarked upon. the reactionary, backward, inhuman and dangerous nature of the eu is being accentuated. this is evident from the outset in immigration policies. the aim is to impose the generalization of the eu-turkey agreement to all african countries of origin and transit of migrants, with the aim of stopping and/or expelling all those fleeing war and hunger - for which the eu has known responsibilities - who risk their lives to reach european soil. the brexit process, which is still marked by great disorientation, is being driven by interests that are contrary to the interests of the people, and which are an expression of the contradictions between powers and fractions of capital that mark the current stage of development of capitalism and the eu.
the programme of the maltese presidency does not address the continuing crisis in the european union, which is an expression of the more general crisis of capitalism and which is at the same time a crisis of the pillars and foundations of the eu itself as a process of capitalist integration. it confirms the exhaustion and lack of solutions to the problems affecting the peoples of europe: unemployment, poverty, exclusion, social inequalities and injustices, precariousness in work and life. this lack of solutions is a kind of escape, highlighting the worst aspects of european policies, particularly in the areas of migration, financial policies and the fight against tax fraud and money laundering, except that malta is one of the eu's most active offshore assets.
the reasons for the agony of the european union lie more on this side of the atlantic than on the other. in the first fortnight of this year the huge mass grave in the mediterranean has claimed over 200 lives, official figures, some reports point to over 400 dead. the almost three thousand migrants who have arrived on european soil in recent days are facing the inhumanity of the european union: detention camps where they are left to freeze to death before being deported. terrorism, under the guise of fighting terrorism. instead of guaranteeing people the security to enjoy their rights, they restrict and attack rights for alleged security reasons. in the end, no rights, no security. this european council is a clear indication of the impasse in which the european union finds itself. the euro accentuates its role as a ruthless engine of divergence and impoverishment for the periphery. in the netherlands, there is another referendum that has been disregarded, this one under the association agreement with ukraine, because, amidst the rubble of this exhausted integration process, part of the problems and not the solution will be left to the peoples in their struggle to open a new path of progress and cooperation in europe.
madam president, citizens increasingly see the european councils as a technocratic formality from which they do not expect any break or consequential decisions capable of improving everyday life and strengthening confidence in the european project. and this council we are discussing here has not escaped the rule. on migration, there were positive steps in external partnerships, in particular the progress of the european fund for sustainable development, but there was no internal partnership for investment, growth and employment. in the field of security, there was a positive will to strengthen the strengthened corporations, in particular the creation of the european defence fund, but there was no concrete plan for cooperation in research, technological development and the joint and shared management of strategic data. in the developmental plane, the exhaustive repetition of good ideas and intentions. however, it is necessary to add robust funding models that allow for the passage, and this is the essential question, of intentions to acts. the rome summit, which marks the 60th anniversary of the treaty which laid the foundations of the european union, cannot be a replica of these councils, full of words but with no consequences. the european union needs to respond clearly to the new global challenges. yesterday, here in parliament, a choice was made which, while democratic and legitimate, was anything but clear. skeptics, europeans and even euro-enthusiasts have negotiated a solution which paves the way for the european union to continue to sail on sight and so we cannot continue in this process, we have to resist this temptation. those who resist will be on the right side of history.
the financial transaction tax aims to bring fairness and regulation to tax systems in europe and to ensure a more than adequate elementary contribution from the financial sector to the budgets of the member states and the union, especially as austerity policies brutally tax the middle classes and small and medium-sized enterprises. this tax must, of course, have a global impact. and that is why i regret that the maltese presidency has not made tax harmonization, transparency and the fight against money laundering among its priorities, especially when members of its government are implicated in the panama papers and this is also a vital issue in the fight against organised crime, including terrorism. malta, one of the countries which the commission and the council have tolerated as specialising in tax competition and aggressive and opaque practices, now has special responsibilities, increased responsibilities, as the presidency of the european union, to take forward the measures already proposed by the commission to combat these practices, including unblocking in the council the enhanced cooperation project on the financial transaction tax, which has already been initiated by ten member states, including my own, portugal. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
blue-card answer. – the ftt is also to have a redistributive impact, and that is also essential to control a financial system that has gone totally out of control, as we saw in the financial crisis. if we want to start to control the financial system, we absolutely need to have this tax paid. it is also a way to contribute to our national budgets, as well as to the budget of the eu, and is a crucial question for social justice, without which citizens will not trust our governments.
in writing. beyond the horrors of war, terrorism and sectarian violence they have escaped, beyond the thousands of deaths in the mediterranean, beyond the long and arduous journeys by land, beyond the closed borders, the misunderstanding and hostility they have in many cases faced, refugees now face the rigors of winter, which this year has brought europe adverse weather conditions not seen in a long time. there are tens of thousands of refugees in overcrowded camps, often made up of unheated, untied, and precarious tents. it is clear that this drama also stems from the exasperatingly slow process of redistributing refugees among the member states, which has so far involved only a few thousand people. europe has a humanitarian and moral obligation to use all the instruments and resources to help these refugees, including babies, children and the elderly. we therefore welcome the series of decisions taken by the commission, in conjunction with the national authorities, to create suitable shelters and improve existing ones, to distribute heating and to move people in particularly vulnerable situations to suitable places.
rapporteur. – mr president, the european parliament will adopt today the most important political initiative for developing a social dimension during this legislature, and for giving citizens the means to get control of their lives and restoring trust in the european union project. the european parliament wants this to be a central priority in the roadmap for the future of the european union to be adopted at the next summit in rome on 25 march. we must put the social dimension at the heart of this roadmap for the future of the european union. this european parliament report is based on very long work by our members, and also involving many other stakeholders across europe who were extremely active in building up a new vision for the social dimension of the european union. so first of all i would like to thank all of you. now is the moment, once the report is adopted, for the commission to come also with a bold proposal, to put it on the table at the council of ministers, and finally on the table of the european council. the european parliament will stand ready to set this deal with the commission, the council, and the european council. we must have a vision of a social dimension able to cope with the current challenges, which are not only global competition and ageing trends, but also a very important digital revolution, and internal problems and internal divergences in the eurozone. this report must become a turning point when updating social standards and security and fundamental social rights for all european citizens. this pillar should address the entire european union. first of all, by giving children a real guarantee to avoid poverty; delivering a strong youth guarantee; and organising the transition between education and employment in such a way that we make the best of the youngest generation in europe. we need also to make sure that all workers, whatever their jobs, can count on a clear contract with social rights, decent working conditions and full access to social protection; and we want all citizens to have a european social security card and a personal account where they will build their rights to social protection. the skills guarantee must become a new social right for the 21st century. finally, we must ensure that women and men can reconcile their working life with family life, using not only childcare services but all the leave schemes we need to legislate the plan. we want poverty to be tackled with more effective minimum—income schemes all over europe. these are key issues for this pillar, but we want the means to deliver, and the means are labour legislation, changing the way the european semester works, and addressing the financial means we need to have to implement all these social standards.
mr president, the attack on social rights in europe has been promoted for decades by the right and social democracy and stems from your class matrix. are you concerned about the social deficit in europe? they advocate the regulation of working hours, the working day not exceeding 8 hours. equal pay for equal work, the end of all forms of precarious work, collective bargaining and the role of workers' organisations, real wage increases and a fair and effective distribution of wealth, universal and solidarity-based public social security, proposals which are not in this report. this social pillar opens the way to harmonization of employment, to harmonization of social protection and security systems. it will be another achievement that will continue the offensive against workers' rights, reduce the standards of labour and social rights subject to the mechanisms of economic governance and the euro, fuelling the policies of impoverishment and exploitation. we cannot do a social washing of an anti-social building and expect progress to be made.
madam president, dear colleague maria joão rodrigues, there are many points of convergence between the epp and the socialists on the european project. it's been that way throughout the history of this institution. we agree that economic policies must have a positive social effect, that there must be adequate funding for european policies and programmes. we agree that economic convergence has not been accompanied by the ambitious social convergence. the central question is what mechanisms must be put in place to ensure that there is also social harmonization, thus fulfilling the european project. but there are points that separate us, congresswoman. in order to contribute to the development of europe, we must take account of how it works, of the powers of the commission and of the powers of the member states, because if we do not do this we are making empty promises to our fellow citizens. i do not want to be counted on to make demagogic proposals which are so arbitrary that they are empty, or which call into question the sovereignty of the member states or which disrespect the social partners. while you have been holding press conferences in the last few hours, accusing the epp of distorting your report, we have been negotiating so that we can approve a european social pillar shortly. without the epp amendments this would not have been possible. we did so because we are not motivated by partisan tricks, but by defending the interests of the european citizens.
the so-called 'european pillar of social rights', as presented here by rapporteur maria joão rodrigues, should be seen as the cornerstone of european cohesion. among these rights, of course, the right to a european minimum wage stands out, that is to say, a threshold below which it is not permitted to pay for work. social rights are today one of the fundamental dimensions of human rights and these, taken as a whole, can only be realised historically if people's basic needs are met. in this context, therefore, the fight against poverty is now of strategic importance not only because of its effects on economic growth but also as a major factor in social peace. poverty always ends up breeding violence.
rapporteur. – mr president, today’s debate was very important because it was made clear for everybody that, with this report, parliament sees what is at stake, which is making sure that there will be a turning point in the direction in which the european project is going. without a stronger social dimension, there is no future for the european union. this came out of this debate very clearly. i believe that with this report we can lay down the conditions for a new stage of european social policy because what is at stake is no longer only making a level playing field for the single market to operate. we do need this, but it is not enough. what is at stake is also being able to cope with common challenges, notably the upcoming digital revolution which will profoundly change the way in which the markets operate. what is at stake is to organise a full process of upward economic and social convergence in the european union and inside the eurozone. in order to do this we need to combine powerful means: labour and social law, changing the direction of economic governance, and providing the necessary financial means. regarding the so—called european semester, we need to have stronger social targets along with economic targets, focusing on the problems of unemployment, social inequalities and poverty to make sure that economic policy takes into account the social impact. we need to have a new kind of interaction between economic and social policy. secondly, we need to have the appropriate means, starting with the means for social investment in education, training, tackling poverty and providing good social services. this should also be translated into the community budget, the european fund for strategic investment, as well as a proper fiscal capacity in the eurozone. these ideas are included in our report and, through these, we also want to establish positive cooperation between our colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and those in the committee on employment and social affairs. this is the kind of cooperation we need to develop in order to implement such a pillar. i would like to thank all the shadows once again. our citizens are making a clear call for a strong social union. now we just need to deliver. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. indonesia is a strategic partner of the european union. it proves that islam and democracy are compatible. and it is a reference for all in the fight against extremism for its experience in promoting a tolerant and united society in diversity. as friendly and loyal partners, we want through this resolution to encourage the indonesian authorities to take steps to ensure that the rights of all peaceful activists and protesters are protected, especially those who are calling for social justice and basic freedoms in the papua region, such as hosea yeimo and ismael alua, who have since been released but are subject to legal proceedings. we hope to see foiled attempts to intimidate politicians by certain groups which claim to be the most ardent defenders of islam. we hope to see indonesia repeal its blasphemy laws and resume the suspension of the death penalty.
mr president, besides supporting my colleague, jo leinen, in his request that the person designated as ambassador to the eu will not be accepted, i want to hear you, mr president – as president of this parliament and on behalf of this parliament – to clearly condemn the measures that president trump has announced in the us banning muslims from certain countries as illegal, against international law and our principles as allies, racist, xenophobic, discriminatory and inviting terror reactions. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the s&d position is in favour of having a plenary discussion about democracy and justice in romania. and as this is being proposed in particular by the alde group. we also think that we need to clarify facts by complementing this debate in plenary with a proper discussion in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we feel that we should also send a fact—finding mission to romania to check what is really happening. we consider that it is particularly important to clarify these points: not only the purpose of the legislative package adopted yesterday, but also the way the prison system works in romania, as well as the way the judicial system works. so this is our proposal: a debate in plenary, a debate in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and a fact-finding mission to romania.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i agree with the alde proposal concerning the debate in plenary on the theme of democracy and justice in romania. we agree with this proposal, and add to it a proper discussion in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs afterwards, as well as a fact—finding mission to romania.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we agree with the debate in plenary but we want to add two other initiatives: a debate in the libe committee and a fact—finding mission to the country itself. this is our proposal.
mr vice-president, i welcome the presentation of the report on the progress of renewable energy in the framework of the energy union. this progress is more important today than ever, because with the beginning of the new american administration a new matrix in the political and economic relationship on a global scale has also begun. and in that matrix, energy, for its role in economic competitiveness and the well-being of populations and its impact on the sustainability of the planet, is and will be at the center of geopolitics and geoeconomics for years to come. the european union has been a leader in the energy transition and must continue to be so, combining efficiency, security, market integration, research, innovation and investment in infrastructure. and renewable energy is the focus of differentiation. but progress is not enough: 12% of total energy and 28.3% of electricity consumed is very little. we must act faster, review the renewable energy directive, invest in decarbonising transport and invest in new interconnections. here are three examples of what we need to do to go faster.
this single energy market is an agenda that is inseparable from the objectives of the major european groups in the sector and the powers that defend their interests. in essence, it advocates the liberalisation of the 'energy market', pressing member states to accelerate the process of privatising what is still public. without recognizing that, contrary to miraculous promises, neither workers nor consumers have benefited from liberalization. energy is a strategic sector, fundamental to the sovereign economic development of the country, supported by scientific knowledge, technological progress and environmental sustainability. reason enough for it to be kept in the public domain, under democratic scrutiny and control. this report is incompatible with those principles. and this is our position, and reality is gradually proving us right!
five thousand deaths in the mediterranean in 2016 and tens of thousands of refugees in deplorable conditions in greece and bulgaria tragically demonstrate that europe has not been able to manage migration flows along mediterranean or other routes, has no common asylum system that works effectively and continues to fuel the business of trafficking networks by not opening legal and safe pathways for immigrant refugees, including through humanitarian visas. the malta summit will be a failure and a disgrace if it is based on outsourcing our responsibilities and our borders. supporting the training of libyan structures of the unhcr and the mfa to rescue and ensure the dignified treatment of migrants and libyan refugees, yes, mrs mogherini, but not to impose readmission agreements or replicas of the illegal trade with turkey on a ungoverned libya. it would be indecent and counterproductive. it is imperative that our governments come together, reinvigorate european solidarity to respond to those from inside and outside, like trump and his strategist putin, who want to destroy the european union because they want to destroy democracy and, to do this, ride the xenophobic, racist, nationalist forces, who want to prevent us from fulfilling our basic obligations regarding refugees and migrants.
the commission is also aware of the fact that the south sudanese government has not yet taken action to address the problem of the sudanese refugees. in their strategy of dominating peoples and plundering their wealth, the great powers divide states, foment wars and, if necessary, intervene militarily, as in libya or mali. we cannot disconnect the current situation from the process favored and promoted by the united states, the european union, israel and their allies, exploiting and exacerbating internal differences, poverty, social injustices and ethnic differences, to fuel a protracted conflict that would lead to their independence in 2011, in a process very similar to kosovo. all in the name of geostrategic control and exploitation of the considerable oil reserves and various minerals in the southern region, which still today are the driving force behind international interests in the region. we need a call for a ceasefire and an immediate end to the financing and sale of arms to the various parties to the conflict. it is necessary to defend a peaceful and political solution to the conflict, free from any external military interference and intervention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, in kenya, barack obama said the following: there is no excuse for sexual assault or domestic violence. there is no reason for young girls to undergo genital mutilation. these traditions may be centuries old, barack obama said, but they have no place in the 21st century. next february 6th, we mark yet another international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation and the problem persists. the european union has now reiterated its commitment to eliminating this practice one year ago. this hidden violence has nothing to do with culture. it's pure torture. the international community must commit itself to the criminalisation of this practice in all countries. a man who mistreats his wife and children cannot be a credible partner. i thank the commissioner for pointing out what has been done, but i have some specific questions i would like to have answered. what are the results in the communities that do this? what is the situation with data collection and processing inside and outside the european union? and what punitive measures are being envisaged? finally, what strength do we have in terms of foreign policy to combat precisely this scourge?
in writing. the next 6 february will once again be the international day for the elimination of female genital mutilation. it is estimated that at least 200 million girls and women have been subjected to this practice, in clear violation of their fundamental rights. in the european union alone, as of 2013, 180 000 girls are still at risk of female genital mutilation every year. since 2013, some steps have been taken. the european parliament has recently called for the ratification of the istanbul convention. but much remains to be done: adequate international protection policies, information on national policies, more regular statistics. it is also important to assess the state of implementation of the combat action plan. that is why parliament must once again mark this date and call for a greater effort.
mr president, the amendment to the regulation we are debating today focuses mainly on bananas, which are one of the most widely consumed fruits in the european union, accounting for a third of world exports, the main source being ecuador. european producers are concentrated in the outermost regions of portugal, spain and france and account for only 11.4% of european consumption, which is their only market. in portugal, production is located mainly in the autonomous region of madeira and in the azores, and it is an important lever for economic development, job creation, population consolidation and, interestingly, also for the landscape modelling that must be preserved. i would like to stress the importance of this interinstitutional commitment to the creation of reliable statistical instruments on the development of import quantities and prices, the assessment of the situation of european producers and the submission of a report on the application of the stabilisation mechanism for bananas. i would also stress the establishment of a system of warning about the effects of imports on the european market and the adoption of possible compensatory measures. finally, i would stress the possibility and the interest in extending the validity of these mechanisms beyond 2020, following what is proposed by the rapporteur herself.
economic and trade relations between the european union and the countries of latin america are of the utmost importance and i believe that in the present international circumstances they must be rapidly increased. ecuador and colombia, which produce more than half of the bananas consumed in europe, are two examples of countries which deserve help and support from the european union. but on the other hand, we must not forget that there are 37 000 jobs directly or indirectly dependent on banana production in five countries of the european union. my country, portugal, is the third largest producer of bananas in europe. madeira and the azores produce some 20 000 tonnes of this fruit each year. this sector must be cautious, particularly because this activity concerns the outermost territories, islands which are geographically quite isolated and, therefore, less able to diversify their economy in the event of serious losses. the safeguard mechanisms now established by the european commission and now fine-tuned by this parliament, with a view to better monitoring and control, are a valuable contribution to correcting imbalances in the european market resulting from substantial increases in banana imports. they prove that the expectations and concerns of the producers of this fruit, most of whom are small producers, are not unimportant to us in the european context. the solution found has the merit of safeguarding european interests without jeopardizing, as we believe is equally important, the interests of those latin american countries whose banana export volumes will continue to have room for growth.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the other members who have worked so hard on this agreement that i hope that today and tomorrow we will have a very positive vote and that this agreement will be approved. an agreement that safeguards all european banana farmers and producers. the biggest victory in terms of negotiations has been achieved. from now on, we will have a safeguard clause that may suspend imports from central america. from now on, we will have access to more information on imported quantities. the impact of imports on local economies will now be analysed. and what impact do these imports have on regions like ours, the outermost regions? the banana producers in the azores and especially in madeira are effectively protected by this new regulation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i must congratulate the rapporteur on the inclusive work she has done with the shadow rapporteurs and their teams. we may disagree on some details, but everything was done with openness, clarity and commitment on the part of all the political groups involved in the discussion of a regulation which is of enormous relevance to the management of external fisheries. since time is short, i want to focus on three key points. firstly, i think it is essential that this regulation should not be stripped of a provision which already existed before and which allows for the penalisation of vessels and masters who have committed serious infringements for access to international fisheries agreements. it would be a historic step backwards in the context of european legislation. secondly, i think it is essential to ensure that there is transparency in the information on vessels fishing in international waters, what fishing opportunities are associated with them, who are their owners and, very importantly, who are the final beneficiaries, that is, who are the beneficial owners. we must ensure that european fisheries are not used as a tool for tax evasion or money laundering. finally, i should like to explain why i think it is important to prevent the perpetuation of dormant international agreements. in ensuring the legality and transparency of the sector, which is guaranteed by this regulation, we must also ensure that we do not perpetuate dormant agreements to the detriment of the interests of the fleets of the member states of the european union, with a harmful effect downstream and, while we are asleep, promote the establishment of dubious and malicious fleets. if we want to combat iuu fishing and slavery and promote respect for the environment and local communities in third countries, then we cannot allow inefficient european international agreements to continue for at least three more years.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate calls our attention to one of the most serious problems in the european union today: the promiscuity between the political and the judicial authorities, between the political and the judicial authorities. the democratic rule of law is only democratic if it is based on the rule of law and it is only based on the rule of law if it is democratic. this separation of powers implies that judicial investigation is not done according to political opportunity, it means that politics does not take advantage of judicial investigations. politics cannot be judicialized, just as justice cannot be politicized. the rule of law is a state which is based on the law in its concrete actions and the law is dictated by the courts, not by the secret services or any other institutions of a political or administrative nature. criminal investigation cannot be used for political purposes, just as criminal investigation cannot be used for political purposes. you cannot manipulate the judiciary, nor can you manipulate the political power.
the visa-free regime for entering georgia and the european union is desirable and appropriate, as georgia has taken all necessary measures to meet the standards of the european union for more than a year. and its people and institutions are committed to consolidating democracy and imbued with a pro-european spirit, as i saw as head of the european parliament's election observation mission in georgia a few months ago. it is all the more important that this regime comes into force without delay in the face of the tectonic changes taking place in the international political context, with trump, president of the united states, serving putin's strategy to destroy the european union and democracy. we must therefore reorganise our forces and support all those in georgia who oppose the russian occupation of their territory and who are working to strengthen economic and political relations with the european union. the visa waiver will facilitate the exchange of people at all levels and will give the democratic forces in georgia a clear signal that we want to help them consolidate their democracy and their autonomy. i would like to thank the president of the georgian parliament and his delegation who are here today, and my colleague maria gabriel for her commitment as rapporteur in this process.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, concerning tuesday’s agenda my group is proposing a change to the title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the new title should be: ‘the situation in the west bank, including settlements’. that is our proposal.
mr president, i would like to clarify that our proposal regards changing the title. the other issue, which is a resolution, should be for another vote. that is our assumption.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, our second proposal concerns thursday’s agenda. it consists of including in the votes a resolution on the situation in the west bank, including settlements, to wind up the debate already held in november 2016. that is our proposal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i confirm this proposal: to move this oral question on the commission approval of the german revised plan to introduce road tolls to wednesday, after the delvaux report.
madam president, the last issue of portuguese ten-year bonds was at interest rates above 4%. the threats from the eurogroup are back. it is demonstrated that it is impossible to defend portugal's interests without addressing the question of the debt and the euro. it is illusory to expect that the deficit settlement or subordination to the debt burden will result in some kind of mercy on the part of the markets and their political representatives. if we exclude interest on the debt, portugal has a primary budget balance of over eur 4 billion. lacking monetary sovereignty, the euro periphery is totally dependent on the choices of the ecb, which it does not control, or on the blackmail of the rating agencies. in other words, the euro has drawn the line between the troika's blackmail and the blackmail of the financial markets. the solution is not to give in to any of them, but to recover monetary sovereignty and to withdraw from the euro those member states which consider its continued existence unsustainable, and to renegotiate the debt, the terms, interest and amounts, preferably within the framework negotiated at european level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have repeatedly confronted this house, the european commission and the portuguese government with the daily risks posed to portugal by the almaraz nuclear power station, a few kilometres from portugal and the tagus river. almaraz is an obsolete power plant, a real time bomb that should have been closed in 2010, but which has seen its life extended until 2020. the portuguese, 40 years ago in ferrel, were massively opposed to the construction of a nuclear power station on their territory, as well as to the nuclear projects that spain has been carrying out on our territory, in violation of the international obligations to which it is bound. the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the spanish authorities have not taken the necessary measures to ensure that the waste from the nuclear power plant in almaraz is not recycled. it also shows the will to extend the operation of almaraz to 60 years of life, as happened last week with the decision to reopen the garoña nuclear power station, which is celebrating its 60th anniversary. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the portuguese to live in constant fear. portugal cannot become spain's nuclear waste dump.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the draft law. mr president, commission president, vice-president timmermans, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, would first of all like to say that there is no doubt that it is possible today, with the current treaties, to have a budgetary capacity and that it is possible to expand it in the future even with a revision of the treaties. but more than that, it is possible today, with the current treaties, as the brok-branson report shows, to have a common european defence policy, a european security policy, a european migration policy, an institutional reform of the council which can make it a real parliamentary chamber and increase democracy, and all this can be strengthened in the future, in the medium and long term, by a revision of the treaties. what will come out of the discussion of these three reports, what will come out of the approval we will give on thursday is just this: we believe in europe, we are able, in the face of what is happening in the united kingdom, in the face of what is happening in the united states, to present a project for european citizens, in which we can be more united, in which we can make a compromise between sound and secure public finances, growth, investment, innovation and, therefore, i would end by saying this and only this: we are sending a signal here and now to all european citizens, to the european commission, to the european council, to the council of ministers, that we, the members of the european parliament from the various parties, believe in europe. we stand for europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must be strengthened on the basis of solidarity and responsibility. together, we can face challenges and threats with confidence. if we are united, if we act in a coordinated way, we will win and defeat terrorism, we will win and succeed in mitigating climate change, we will win the fight against fraud, tax evasion, we will succeed in improving our welfare state and, never forget, we will maintain peace, democracy, freedom, the rule of law. each state alone is not strong enough to solve global problems. 'pride alone' does not work, nationalisms do not work, the european union is the solution. we must restore confidence, a euro zone makes the european union strong, a weak euro zone makes the european union weak. together we can build solutions to the shocks we face, we must give priority to the community method, strengthen transparency, democratic legitimacy, promote citizen participation. that is what these three reports propose and that is why i ask for your approval and congratulate the rapporteur and the rapporteurs.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the european union must define an ambitious roadmap for the future. the european parliament wants this to happen at the rome summit and, indeed, in the white paper that is to be presented by the commission. we should not wait for upcoming national elections. the european union is being challenged right now by the combined effect of putin, trump and internal nationalistic voices, and we believe that this is the time for the european union to assert itself as what it is already: a powerful democratic political and economic entity. we need to translate this into a roadmap with better european solutions: better european solutions for growth with an investment strategy, a strong social pillar and completing economic and monetary union with a proper fiscal capacity; better european solutions to our security problems, certainly by advancing european defence and internal security, and also by ensuring a proper european asylum system and the proper management of migration, in cooperation with the european neighbourhood. but the european union should also send a message to the world, saying that we, the european union, are in favour of openness and cooperation based on a properly regulated global economy. the world is waiting for this positive message from the european union. then we need to translate all this into new means of taking action. that has implications for the community budget. we need a community budget that is turned to the future. we believe that this offers the best way for citizens to take control of their lives, and that the best way to assure national sovereignty is to strengthen european sovereignty.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the three reports we have discussed here on the future of europe are a very clear message from this european parliament in favour of a stronger, more united and more democratic europe. and let us not be under any illusions, the task before us is to save the european project, nothing less. this objective is vital for peace, for the quality of life of citizens, for the regulation of globalisation. it is a possible goal if the european project is reconciled with its values, if solidarity prevails over national egotism and if europe resumes its lost ambition for prosperity and convergence. there are of course no magic solutions, but to meet the aspirations of its citizens, the european union needs a new impetus for prosperity and convergence. and what these three reports tell us is that there will be neither prosperity nor convergence, if we do not learn the lessons of the financial crisis, if we do not correct the mistakes in the architecture of the euro and if we do not really revive that ambition at the heart of the european project. that is the task before us, and it is what we must achieve if there is political will.
in writing. today's debate on the future of the european union is the best demonstration that the news of the death of the grand coalition between the european right and social democracy was clearly exaggerated. the forces which have always been responsible for the capitalist integration process, which is contrary to the interests of the peoples, in the face of the disaster they have created, want to force a breakthrough. even without changing the treaties, which they would like to do but cannot because the people would not allow it, they want to force changes of enormous magnitude and they will have profound consequences. they are clearly intent on further limiting the sovereignty of states by concentrating more power in supranational bodies controlled by the great powers. they don 't even bother to disguise themselves anymore . the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. to tighten the noose further, they must concentrate more power. as in other times, they invent external enemies to justify the militaristic, security-oriented, anti-democratic drift. they talk about the future, but without realizing it, they're already in the past, a sad past that won't leave you longing. what this debate once again shows is that to save europe, the eu must be defeated.
in writing. today's debate on the future of the european union is a real leap forward. worse than being blind is not wanting to see what's in front of you. what we are facing is a europe in crisis, plagued by austerity policies and provoking a growing feeling of hostility among the people. in this way, even without changing the treaties - which they would like to do but cannot, because the people would not allow it - they want to force changes of enormous magnitude that further deepen the power and scope that have sown the crisis and discredit in the eu. they claim to cure evil with disease. the eu is sick with the intractable contradictions of the system it advocates and defends. in this sense, and with the usual remedies exhausted, what we need is a new model of integration, a model based on peace and cooperation between free and sovereign states for their mutual benefit.
mr president, on a point of order, members should know – and we should ask the president of parliament to get involved – about what is happening with euronews. the ukrainian service is about to be closed, as are the arabic and farsi satellite platforms, so that only the digital platforms will stay, which are of course prone to government control. what is going on with euronews is outrageous, with an egyptian billionaire as the main shareholder, american nbc taking editorial control and the eu, which is putting in money through the commission, not having a say in guaranteeing the editorial independence of euronews. this is a very important strategic question for europe in the age of information, disinformation and alternative facts. this is not a matter to be dealt with only by dg connect from a technical or financial perspective, but is a matter that requires strategic intervention by president juncker, high representative mogherini and the european parliament through the president and the relevant committees. (applause)
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the fisheries agreement between the european union and the cook islands. with the conclusion of this agreement, it will become the only asset in the pacific region. i would stress the non-legislative resolution accompanying the recommendation, which sets out a number of concerns and recommendations which the european commission should take into account, both during the implementation of this agreement and its implementing protocol, and when discussing a possible recommendation. we would therefore like to draw attention to these recommendations and to stress, finally, that the agreement is in line with the conclusions and recommendations of the relevant regional fisheries management organisation and therefore with the best available scientific advice.
mr president, the postponement of the completion of the second evaluation of the greek programme is a danger to the stability of the euro area, it is in flagrant contradiction to the commission's recognition of the progress made by greece and it is an injustice to the efforts made by the greek people. what i am asking is whether it is not time for common sense to prevail in solving the problem of greece? is it not time for the european commission to be more reasonable in its demands for austerity and budgetary trajectory? is it not time to tackle the problem of restructuring greece's debt? and it is not the time, mr vice-president dombrovskis, for the commission to dismiss once and for all the statements of the german finance minister who, for domestic consumption, only wants to sow instability in the euro zone and to call into question the efforts being made, at the very moment when greece is making progress and showing results. isn't it time common sense prevailed?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the epp welcomes the growth in all the member states of the european union and the decline in unemployment, particularly among young people. these being the objectives set by the european semester process, we can be pleased with the results we are achieving. however, this satisfaction cannot give way to any accommodation. in addition to continuing to pursue these objectives, we must develop ambitious policies that translate into greater social cohesion and strengthen the economic sustainability of the european union and its member states, enhancing our autonomy in the face of possible external shocks that may arise. this ambition must be achieved by investing in human capital as a means of boosting productivity, matching the skills of workers to the needs of enterprises and ensuring the social integration of the most disadvantaged. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it also requires an individual approach to the unemployed at member state level, in particular the long-term unemployed, ensuring adequate support in terms of training and reintegration mechanisms, and working to ensure that they do not lead to processes of exploiting cheap labour. it also implies the definition of policies based on the virtuous triangle of investment, which brings economic and social returns, the definition of structural reforms that ensure the sustainability of the european economic and social model and fiscal consolidation, ensuring a decent future for future generations. as tempting as it is to focus on current results, we must be able to look ahead. as much as we are politically tempted to give momentary positive answers, we have a duty to guarantee the model of social development which characterizes the european union and its member states.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gunnar hökmark, for the way in which we have cooperated in the preparation of his report, which is a good compromise between the different political positions in this parliament. the central issue is clear: the monetary policy of the european central bank is not enough to ensure sustained economic growth and employment, nor to promote the new impetus for prosperity and convergence that europe needs. in this report, therefore, parliament supports a strategy which, not just in words but in reality, is based on a virtuous triangle of public and private investment, in particular in infrastructure, in socially balanced structural reforms respecting social rights and in responsible public finances, with full respect for the flexibility allowed by the rules. but there is one more point to be made: the proposal, the commission's great novelty, is the defence of a moderately expansionary budgetary policy. this is not a small thing after years of austerity. the socialist group supports this commission proposal and we are pleased that parliament will state in its report that this is an important development, which allows for the coordination of economic policies and which points to the opportunities for the states with budgetary leeway to promote budgetary stimulus, to grow domestic demand and the european economy. there will be no lack of support for the commission in this parliament for a more expansionary budgetary policy.
the european semester is once again confirming its nature as another cycle of austerity and neoliberal policies. twenty-five years after the adoption of the maastricht treaty, it is now all too evident that the euro and its instruments of economic governance have not delivered on the promises of stability, economic growth and cohesion. the euro is now recognised as an instrument of divergence which has dismantled much of the economies of the member states, imposing cuts in investment, privatisations, attacks on the social functions of the state and its public services. fifteen years after the introduction of the euro, portugal is poorer and more dependent, has deviated from the european union average, and is struggling with the burden of a debt imposed on it by the troika and the policies of the euro and the european union. in the face of this situation, in the face of the deep discontent of the population and of the workers, these reports point to more of the same: the same infernal triangle of austerity that binds the national states and prevents, with the threats of the budgetary treaty, any alternative policy. the euro is now part of the problem, not the solution. in this sense, we believe that the liberation of portugal from the constraints of the euro is a necessary and indispensable condition for putting our country back on the path of development.
madam president, commissioner, the trade agreement with canada is of strategic importance for the european union, especially after trump, and is the necessary response against the dangerous illusion of isolation and protectionism. this is also a good agreement, an economically balanced agreement, which clarifies tariffs and allows market access, and is a new benchmark for international trade, a progressive agreement for a more regulated globalisation. today we can say that we listened to the citizens and that this agreement, under pressure from this parliament and civil society, respects the environmental, social and human values of the european union, our right to regulate in the public interest. it was under pressure from this parliament and the socialist group that the private arbitration system was replaced by a new public arbitration system and it is because this agreement has been improved that its final version deserves the confidence of the citizens and deserves the favourable vote of this european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, this agreement, which was launched in 2009 and concluded in 2014, is, in our opinion, quite comprehensive, modern, transparent and also forward-looking. we believe that it will now bring benefits to businesses, workers and consumers. the agreement, which eliminates 98% of customs duties, also provides for the safeguarding of public services, audiovisual services, transport and the most sensitive agricultural products. the agreement will guarantee the protection of 143 european geographical indications, 20 of which are portuguese. we also believe that mutual recognition of certification for many products is important, as is recognition of a wide range of professions, from engineers to architects to lawyers. we also want to stress the need to maintain high standards in the areas of the environment, food safety, health and consumer rights, while respecting compliance with european rules and regulations. i am sure that the european union will benefit from this agreement and my country will not be an exception, as portugal currently has over a thousand companies exporting to canada, 89% of them being small and mediumsized enterprises which provide 12 000 jobs. that is why i am voting in favour of ceta.
mr. chairman, i voted for this free trade agreement. i am very pleased to have been present at this historic vote and i am convinced that this agreement will lead to a strengthening of trade relations between the european union and canada. i am, after all, in favour of the principles of free trade in general, and i am opposed to tariffs and other trade barriers, which we as the european union should oppose and fight. the european union, one of the ideas of our integration, is the free movement of goods, services, capital and people, and this agreement fits into our philosophy, our cooperation of free states under the rule of law. i am therefore very pleased that this agreement has been adopted and i hope that it will meet the expectations that it will lead to an increase in trade between the european union and canada of up to 20%, and that the benefits will be in the billions of euros for both sides and that it will lead to more jobs being created, not to what the left is afraid of, namely fewer jobs.
mr president, i voted in favour of the conclusion of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union in recognition that canada is an important trade and investment partner and ally for the european union and that the agreement is an important instrument in the european union's efforts to set a rigorous framework for world trade rules. in my decision i took account of the fact that we are living in a time of uncertainty and ambiguity and a resurgence of dangerous protectionist policies, which are a setback for the multilateral and bilateral trading system and open up uncertainty about the future of trade relations. i therefore believe that the european union should therefore strengthen partnerships and closer cooperation models with states with which it shares common values and strategic interests. however, i would like to stress that in environmental matters ceta should have been more ambitious and more in line with the commitments made in paris and even with the european project itself in terms of climate energy objectives, which aim at a green, sustainable economy, giving priority to renewable energy and the fight against climate change. ceta should also promote sustainable agricultural practices more rigorously, as the link between energy, food and water is essential for citizens' well-being, poverty reduction and sustainable development.
mr president, this agreement between the parties was a very, very partial agreement. on the one hand, we have three and a half million people who have signed, who have sent us their signatures, in fact, rejecting this agreement. we also have two thousand other regions that have declared themselves free from ceta and ttip, and on the other side we have the multinationals and profit. the majority of this parliament has decided to choose multinationals and profit over those who are the interests of citizens. besides, he had a behavior, i would say, strange. it is a parliament which votes in favour of an agreement by a majority, but which has no political position on it. it is not capable of making a political resolution which can set out the position of parliament. so it is a parliament that does not think. i would therefore like to say that the citizens will continue to resist and that the national parliaments will certainly have to listen to these citizens. the game is not over yet and i am certainly on the side of the people, not the side of profit.
this directive, which was triggered by the november 2015 terrorist attacks in paris, aims to harmonise criminal law, improve the exchange of information and prevent further terrorist attacks. parliament has succeeded in improving a number of provisions, warning of the danger of over-reacting to a situation that is not part of a comprehensive strategy to combat radicalisation. the directive has three main problems. first, criminal offences are not adequately defined, leaving the door open to interpretations that may disproportionately restrict fundamental rights. the fight against terrorism on platforms such as the internet must be done in a smart and technically effective way, which is very different from criminalizing the use of the internet itself. it is also important that the commission, which promises better legislation, has once again dispensed with the impact assessment. third, the foreign fighters terminology is wrong. the overwhelming majority of terrorists who have attacked in europe are europeans, disintegrated but born and raised here; they did not need to travel abroad. fundamental to combating terrorism is not in this directive or any other. it demands that governments, our governments, abandon authoritarian neoliberal policies, that cut off resources to equip and train police and law enforcement, that create ghettos and segregation in our cities, that turn prisons into centers of radicalization instead of rehabilitation. and those same governments must stop the importation of wahabi fundamentalist propagandists into european mosques. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – i know that several anti-democratic, autocratic governments are using the excuse of terrorism, and the obsession with the fight against terrorism, to actually suppress basic freedoms and suppress legitimate criticism and dissent. we cannot align ourselves with that and that is also why we need to be very critical about what is happening inside the eu and that is why i am also critical about some of the solutions that are in this directive that, in my view, put in question disproportionately, or may put in question disproportionately, the fundamental rights of the european citizens themselves.
in writing. the storyline is not new. it is necessary to 'respond' to attacks on european soil and to 'fight' so-called 'foreign fighters'. the european union has not yet been able to put forward a comprehensive strategy for combating terrorism. the legislative proposal aims at criminalising 'activities related to terrorist practices'. the absence of a definition of 'terrorism', and the wide and narrow scope of measures and legal persons liable to be charged proposed, will lead to the generalization of criminalisation for 'practices linked to terrorism', with questionable causality. the mere fact of visiting a website, or of travelling to certain regions, could constitute a legal basis for detention and criminalization. the member states will have the freedom to close websites without the need for judicial authorisation. at a time when the eu institutions are talking so much about so-called 'radicalisation', they are helping to tighten the rope of marginalisation and exclusion, creating stigmas and feelings of rejection on both sides. this is a dangerous legislative initiative which continues the eu's security drift, consolidating a strong europe that makes a clean slate of the most basic rights and freedoms, imposing control, registration, profiling, censorship.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner king, dear colleague monica macovei, the introduction of tighter controls through systematic consultation of existing european and national databases is a good example of how we can give immediate security to european citizens. to ensure that the schengen area remains an area of freedom, security and justice, we must act at the external borders and ensure the best possible cooperation internally. it is therefore crucial that we can ensure full control of who is crossing our external border, as these amendments seek to do - not just for those who enter but also for those who leave, not just for third country nationals but also for europeans. we want to optimise the use of information systems such as sis, the schengen information system, in order to enhance information sharing and cooperation between member states to make these amendments to the schengen borders code as effective as possible. that is why the proposal put forward by the commission last december to amend the sis cannot be dissociated from these measures. and that concludes my remarks, madam president. the security of europeans cannot be guaranteed by isolated layers; the security of europeans is achieved in a planned way, by ensuring a balanced approach, because it is our duty to ensure security, but also freedom, including freedom of movement for all europeans.
in writing. information sharing is a key pillar of the union's internal security strategy. it is unfortunately commonplace to acknowledge that cooperation between member states in this field is still far from perfect. however, the union is possibly undergoing one of the most intensive re-designations of its information systems, with changes to sis, vis and eurodac, alongside the creation of the new entry/exit system and etias. in parallel, although ideally upstream, the high level group on information systems and interoperability will publish the outcome of its work in may this year. it is clear that the prum decisions and the council decision on the sharing of information in the field of terrorism must be adapted to the new challenges and the new legal framework of the lisbon treaty. however, caution is advised. any changes should be made taking into account the entire information systems landscape the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are effective, proportionate and necessary. otherwise, we are not protecting our citizens.
madam president, we have identified several gaps in the report. on the one hand, it does not advocate that the development of these areas be subordinated to national interests, supported by public policies of investment, research and development. at the same time, it takes a very narrow approach to the impacts on the world of work, namely the increase in precariousness, impoverishment, unemployment and the liquidation of labour and social rights, omitting the interests of capital in its development, in order to increase exploitation with a view to maximising profit. the absence of any reference to and condemnation of the relationship between robotics and its use for military and security purposes is also incomprehensible. we have moved away from the approach of legislative harmonization in this area and the creation of another agency which contributes to conditioning and limiting the capacity of each state to develop on the basis of its own best interests. the range of areas of influence and intervention in the development of this sector confirms its enormous complexity, and calls for prudent discussion and further in-depth reflection.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the lack of servers in the european union with sufficient capacity to store research data means that researchers have to go elsewhere and store data outside the european union without safeguarding data protection. the same applies to access: there are problems of access because we do not have this capacity within the framework of the european union. this project that is being presented today is an ambitious project, but for it to work at its full potential, it is necessary, first, that the system be kept in the public domain, ensuring use and access for the entire community, from researchers to small and medium-sized enterprises and other sectors of industry; second, to ensure data portability and interoperability; and third, to protect personal and research data under the legislation that we already have and not to give up a millimeter. the european cloud initiative is a key project for the digital society, but we cannot let private interests overlap and so we can actually end public-private partnerships. i think it would be a mistake in terms of access and what should be the background of this project, which i think is of extreme importance. and finally, finally, especially for the commissioner and his adviser, alfredo sousa jesus, imagine the society we would be living in today if marx had had the opportunity to share all his work on the cloud.
commissioner, we are living in an age of accelerated access to and processing of data. the digital society that is emerging in today's world is built on a magma of ever-increasing amounts of data. the european union needs a robust infrastructure for its storage, high-speed connectivity and transport capacity and computers with high processing capacity and from here we have to set priorities, we have to focus on the innovation of services for citizens, on the integration of small and medium-sized enterprises in value chains and, with this, we have to be able to improve responses in areas such as security, privacy protection, health and the qualification of people. the wifi for eu initiative, which contributes to universal, high-quality internet access, regardless of economic status and geographical location, can be used to test the promotion of inclusion associated with this initiative. i leave you, commissioner, with this challenge. and we also need to improve connectivity to other parts of the globe. the submarine cable between europe and brazil is also important for the success of this initiative.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the documents they have presented and the indicators they give us for the future of cohesion policy. these reports show that cohesion policy is not a wasteful policy, it is an investment policy. it must be assumed that gdp cannot be the only indicator for the distribution of funds. unemployment rates, poverty, skills, geographical and structural constraints are also key indicators. when we talk about governance, it is clear that local power is involved in the illd's logic. this power must and must be listened to because it is the closest to the citizens. but i also believe that we should create a mechanism for monitoring smaller projects, because some of these projects do not add value to the european plan: this is the case of the destruction of bridges and historic walls in the city of funchal with the money from the cohesion fund. the experts have not been listened to, nor have the people, and i have no way of explaining to the citizens of this region that european money is being used to destroy what is the common heritage.
mr president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur of this important document. i have a few questions for the commissioner. i ask you whether you are aware that in 2016 over 13 billion euros were not paid and therefore not implemented in cohesion policy alone. the european funds for strategic investments are key to competitiveness, economic growth and employment. but who are responsible for this non-execution? is it the commission? is it the member states? is it the red tape? i have no doubt that we must reduce bureaucracy. i have no doubt we must also speed up: we are already in 2017 and the financial framework ends in 2020 (the cohesion policy funds). we also have to do something else, which is to promote synergies. i am the rapporteur for the juncker plan of the european fund for strategic investments. it is essential that there be a link between this fund, the juncker plan and the structural investment funds, in particular the cohesion policy funds. i 'll give you another one: as of 31 january 2017, 127 managing authorities out of a total of 564 managing authorities were still to be appointed. this is unacceptable! 127 managing authorities to be appointed? whose fault is this non-appointment? without the appointment of these authorities, there will be no payments and it is essential that the amounts from the eu budget and these funds reach the economy.
mr president, this is a strategy we do not approve of and condemn. we denounce its real objectives, namely to promote a pan-european aviation oligopoly which will result in a further loss of national sovereignty in a highly strategic sector which is important for the development of the member states, but also in the intensification of the exploitation of workers, with the expected deregulation of employment, the increase in precariousness and the reduction of wages. this is a strategy born within the large multinationals in the sector, created by them and for them, to give priority to european agreements with emerging markets or recommendations for the revision of a set of regulations and directives or the increase in public investment in a logic of nationalizing costs and privatizing profits serves exclusively the interests of these multinationals. finally, the report is forced to acknowledge the brutal impact that the process of liberalization has had on industrial relations, but it is unable to propose any measure to reverse this trend; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
on behalf of the s&d group. in this resolution we strongly condemn the recent executions in kuwait and bahrain, countries where the judiciary has no credibility. in manama, the way the police have dealt with the protests over the past few days for the anniversary of the 2011 uprising shows that the human rights situation has worsened, with increasing violations including summary executions and torture. it is essential that the bahraini authorities stop the executions of mohammed ramadan and hussain ali moosa, who were denied a fair trial, and commit themselves immediately to abolishing the death penalty, to stop the crackdown and restore the freedom of action of the opposition party al-wefaq, to release political prisoners and human rights activists such as nabeel rajab, and to restore citizenship to sheikh issa ahmad qassim and other dissidents whose citizenship was illegally and arbitrarily revoked. for the security and stability of bahrain itself, it will be vital that the authorities finally engage in dialogue for reconciliation. this obviously implies the participation of representatives of the shiite majority population.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the executions of three men of the shia faith were the first to be carried out in bahrain since july 2010. in kuwait, where 50 people are currently on death row, the execution of seven prisoners was the first death sentence since 2013 and the death penalty continues to be applied even for non-violent offenses, including drug trafficking, in flagrant violation of international law. these cruel and inhuman sentences represent a serious setback in the field of human rights and unfortunately reflect a trend towards increasing use of the death penalty and the lifting of moratoriums in the arabian gulf, endangering the already fragile stability of the region. my dear colleagues, my country, portugal, was one of the first nations in the world to abolish the abject practice of the death penalty, a decision of which i am very proud, and at the time victor hugo himself said that portugal was setting an example for europe. i hope that today europe, and especially this parliament in the 21st century, will also set an example for the rest of the world by strongly condemning these sentences, calling for the commutation of the sentences of the remaining convicts and reiterating its commitment to the universal abolition of the death penalty throughout the world, including iran.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the execution of three men - i am sorry, i was wrong - the legacy of 36 years of internal conflict and violence, the high rates of poverty, drug trafficking, the proliferation of arms, the fragility of institutions and a culture of impunity make guatemala one of the most violent countries in the world. this violence hits human rights defenders in a dramatic way, especially environmentalists and land rights defenders, as the statistics illustrate. in addition to other forms of intimidation, which cannot be accounted for, between january and november of last year, more than 200 cases of assaults and 14 murders were recorded, and this year, 2017, already has the sad record of the murder of two more activists: laura leonor vásquez pineda and sebastián alonso ruan. if in 2012 the european union's relations with guatemala were strengthened by the conclusion of the association agreement with central america, europe cannot fail now, from this house, to encourage the government of president jimmy morales and the guatemalan authorities to develop and implement public policies to protect human rights defenders against organised crime and to send a clear and unequivocal signal of support to all those who, despite intimidation, are courageously fighting for an independent judiciary and for the end of impunity in guatemala.
mr president, i would like to congratulate president juncker on the decision to present the white paper to the parliament and to present it to the press in the presence of the parliament. this is a good sign as it shows what you think about the future of europe, namely that it has to be a democratic construction, a democratic building. i would also like to congratulate you – and to disagree with the socialists – because i think it is a good idea to present five scenarios and not only one solution. the problem of the future of europe is not the commission and its view, it is not the european parliament and its view, but is really the responsibility of the member states and now the member states, within their national parliaments and their national public opinion, will have to say what they want. they have to be confronted with their own responsibilities. i think that this is a very important step to bring transparency, democracy and legitimacy to this process of reforming the european union in the near future. finally, i would like to say that the epp group has approved its own strategy. we are totally committed to the idea of a social market economy, to innovation, development, growth, the creation of jobs and prosperity, and to moving forward in defence and security reforms that lead towards a kind of european defence union.
mr president, i would say that the problem is not that the commission is coming forward with scenarios, because that is interesting. nevertheless, the expectation will be of the commission saying that we can consider these scenarios but that there is a choice, which is the choice the commission is proposing. why is that so? because we are in such a situation, with these overlapping crises and these so—called existential crises, that the key question in the current situation is not whether we need to have better european solutions or to go backwards. this is not the central question. the central question is about how we can deliver better european solutions, because we have a majority in favour of better european solutions. i am sure that majority exists here in this house; i am sure, of course, it exists in the commission; and i am sure that majority exists among european citizens. why? because it is evident that, in order to deliver better labour conditions and better large—scale investment, we need better european solutions. the same goes for trade, defence, security and migration. so let us focus the discussion on how to deliver these better european solutions. i hope this will be the central question for the period to come.
mr president, this white paper on the future of the european union is based on wrong assumptions, on a wrong diagnosis of the present situation, which ignores the roots of the crisis and the gradual alienation of the populations from this process of integration. today, increasingly broad sections of the population and workers see the european union as a problem and a threat to their incomes and rights. and this thinking does not stem from any subjective evaluation, it stems from the concrete implementation of the policies of the european union, which have imposed on the peoples of europe wage cuts, tax increases, privatisations and the degradation of the social functions of the state. at the same time, this same europe favours the big economic groups with policies tailored to their interests. this is the cause of euroscepticism, but also the reasons for economic stagnation and the growth of social inequalities. without acknowledging this reality, there will be no white paper that can solve europe's problems.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this debate shows that there is a connection between preparing for the european council and the previous debate on scenarios for europe. i can see that this european council is trying to put into practice scenario 5, namely working together to come up with better european solutions. this is the case with regard to investment and to completing the single market with the digital and the energy union. this is also the case regarding the need to manage migration and to build up a real european asylum system. this is also the case regarding the trade agreement which was completed with canada and which paves the way for a new generation of trade agreements, if some new concerns are introduced. this is also the case with regard to defence. so on this european council agenda you have many critical issues where we need to deliver better european solutions. nevertheless, let me underline that when it comes to growth, we really want more of it because the current european semester clearly shows that there is a limit to the growth strategy we are following in europe. up to now we been driven by exports. we have nothing against this, but we feel this is the right moment to bet on domestic demand, which means reducing social inequalities. this is the second source of growth in europe which should be strengthened. then, if this is the case, all these outcomes of the european council should pave the way for a good declaration at the rome summit. let me underline this: we should not just commemorate the 60th anniversary. we need to use the opportunity to pave the way for the future, which means having a declaration that highlights the importance of the european social pillar and of a real reform of the euro area to deliver upward economic and social convergence, as well the need to come up with a european defence strategy and to make europe a central entity for cooperation at the level of good trade agreements and good strategic partnerships and support for the multilateral system. so these are the expectations for the rome declaration.
the european union and its integration process are in a deep crisis, but it is not a cyclical crisis. it is a crisis that arises before its liberal and profoundly anti-democratic matrix. in the face of this crisis, which is indisputable, the next council will naturally turn to the usual solutions designed only to mislead public opinion. however, the peoples of europe do not want the same thing, they do not want a deepening of the pillars of the militarist, liberal and federalist european union. they do not want any more a leap forward which completely ignores the real causes of the present crisis. the white paper on the future of europe proposes five scenarios. we need a sixth element: a break with this process of neoliberal integration, a break which opens the door to the construction of another europe, at the service of the people and the workers, a europe of cooperation, without ceta, where all peoples are respected in their sovereignty and their right to decide their own model of development.
mr president, we absolutely need to invest in the security and defence of our citizens, but this will only happen if we do so in a coordinated way, within the framework of the common security and defence policy and an internal security strategy. but for that we need more national resources and an adequate european budget. if the european council commits itself to tackling the tax jungle and money laundering and terrorist financing by shutting down tax havens, onshore and offshore, then member states can recover substantial assets to invest in our security and defence. a financial transaction tax would be a decisive step in this direction. as for the immoral attempt to outsource our responsibilities in managing migration and protecting refugees by creating hotspots in libya, which no one will be able to manage in a country that is destroyed and without governance, for lack of europe, unless european governments have the courage to ask for an international mandate, invoking self-defence, and have the courage to put boots on the ground - many boots on the ground - ensuring the safety and defence of everyone in libya and all libyan territory, and not just the maritime and coastal zone.
mr president, we have heard your concerns and your spurious priorities and your security intentions to resolve this appalling reality. we note how you shake off responsibility for the violation of children's rights, a violation which is added to the many human rights violations that are taking place on european soil today and which are the result of your criminal immigration policies. we discussed the causes of this scourge. we discussed how the dublin regulation and the objectives of your ongoing review of the asylum system disrespect and impede the right to reunification and family life. let us talk about how your policies of walls, of outsourcing borders, of return and of expulsion feed human trafficking networks and the sexual exploitation of women and children. we reject your security hysteria, which privileges identification, fingerprinting from the age of six and even detention, imagine, rather than guaranteeing the fulfilment of the fundamental rights of the child to protection and integration. shame on you, mr avramopoulos. you should be ashamed of yourself.
mr president, since europe revealed in january 2016 that by then 10,000 migrant and refugee children had disappeared on european soil, what have the commission and the council done to protect these children and many more unaccompanied children arriving in europe and prevent them from falling into the hands of human traffickers, predators of all kinds and criminal networks, including terrorists? in sweden, a few months ago, police told us, in a sad way, that if a swedish child disappeared, they would turn the country upside down, but if it was a migrant or a refugee, there was no way. what is this europe where our rulers invoke security reasons for everything, but fail blatantly, failing to relocate and reunite refugees, including asylum seekers, including minors, dragging out processes for appointing guardians, access to education, legal, specialist counselling and psychological support, returning afghan children to their country of origin on the pretext that they come from a 'safe country'? in fact, it feeds the sinister business of the traffickers and threatens our collective security.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. direct and indirect pay discrimination between men and women has its causes, it does not arise by spontaneous generation. capital and the bosses use them to increase exploitation. discrimination is rampant in the right-wing policies of the member states and the european union, inseparable from the attack on collective bargaining and wages and the offensive against the labour rights of workers and women in particular. the overcoming of these inequalities will only be possible by breaking with your class policies, putting an end to precariousness, limiting the use of temporary work, regulating working hours not to exceed 8 hours a day, guaranteeing the principle of equal pay for equal work and the promotion of wages, ensuring adequate protection in childbirth and maternity.
the worsening of the precariousness of employment and low wages, which affect women workers, taking on particularly shocking and unacceptable expressions in the new generations and in sectors such as the textile industry, trade, housing and catering, or services, represent a scandal that must be denounced on the eve of another 8 march. direct and indirect pay discrimination between men and women has concrete causes. they don't come about by spontaneous generation. the causes lie in exploitation and in the right-wing policies of the member states and the eu which promote this exploitation, with particular reference to the attacks on collective bargaining and wages, the offensive against workers' labour rights which increasingly affects women as all social statistics demonstrate. the overcoming of these inequalities will only be possible by breaking with class politics, putting an end to precariousness, limiting the use of temporary work, regulating working hours not to exceed 8 hours a day, guaranteeing the principle of 'equal pay for equal work' and wage appreciation, ensuring adequate protection in childbirth and maternity.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in theory, in 1718, russia abolished the segregation of the sexes. 300 years later, russia is at the bottom of the gender inequality index. there remains a gap in terms of opportunities between men and women. in a country with a large population, with more women than men, they earn 32% less than men. in modern russia, which rejects the istanbul convention, 90 percent of gender-based violence goes unreported, and this is used not to educate for equality, but to excuse what should be a public crime. when religion, politics and justice get mixed up, it's very dangerous. when you add violence as a culture, the explosion is imminent. this is not a cultural issue, it's a political issue. vladimir putin stated that the blatant interference of justice in the family is intolerable. but, mr president, it is more intolerable to dismiss politics out of hand in the pursuit of democracy.
in writing. freedom of movement and residence is a fundamental pillar of the union. it is the highest expression of european citizenship. it is the greatest success of and for europeans. it is the greatest achievement of citizens' europe. for a country like portugal, which has always looked to the outside, this achievement is of particular importance. as of 2015, there are more than two hundred thousand portuguese living in the united kingdom and who, as european citizens, have been able to benefit without being discriminated against by their nationality from all the rights available to the british. so reports that the british authorities are making it administratively difficult for europeans to stay in the uk cannot go unpunished. for the time being, the united kingdom remains a full member state and must therefore respect community rules. on behalf of the europeans, but particularly of the thousands of portuguese who live there, this parliament must ensure that the rights of european citizens are strictly respected.
in writing. – let me be clear: for the time being and at least for the next two years, the uk is a member of the eu, and therefore must apply eu freedom of movement laws. in case of breaches, the commission must launch infringement proceedings and take the necessary measures to guarantee the full and unreserved implementation of eu law and, in this particular case, the respect for one of the union’s core principles. whenever the uk conservative government finds the courage to act on the result of the referendum that it called for and triggers article 50 – nine months and counting! – the result of the exit negotiations will determine which rules will be applicable to eu citizens residing in the uk. again, let me be clear: their protection is our absolute priority, as is protection of the values that should guide every decision taken by the union. please note: the promotion of fear, hate and xenophobia is not acceptable in this union.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union, as we said earlier today in our debate on the gender pay gap. the equal participation of women and men in decision—making is a matter of justice, respect for human rights and good governance. this was underlined by the council in its conclusions of december 2015. on that occasion the council also noted that there is still a need to achieve de facto gender equality in the european union, which requires a multifaceted approach, including legislation, awareness—raising and positive action programmes. the council thus called inter alia on member states’ governments to promote a balanced representation of women and men in the political sphere, including nominations to high—level positions in the eu institutions. against this background, it is not surprising that the importance of ensuring gender balance in high judicial functions was also reaffirmed in the context of the reform of the general court, which was adopted in december 2015 and is currently being implemented. as you know, this reform foresees an increase in the number of judges at the general court in three stages. the first stage, the appointment of 12 additional judges, is currently being completed and the second stage is also in the process of being implemented with a view to reaching the number of 47 judges. two appointments are still outstanding. the final stage, in which the court will comprise two judges per member state, will be completed by 2019 and only then will it be possible to assess whether we have come closer to the objective of gender balance in the composition of the general court. at present, out of a total of 44 judges at the general court, ten are women and, among the 22 judges who were newly appointed in 2016, six are women. this is of course not yet satisfactory, even if there is a slight upward trend, which hopefully we will further consolidated. what can we do in order to reinforce an equal gender representation among judges at the court? of course under the treaty the appointment of judges and, by implication, the nomination of candidates, is the exclusive prerogative of the governments of the member states. neither the council nor parliament have any role in this respect. what the legislator can do – and has done in the context of the reform – is to create a legal framework which facilitates the nomination of one woman and one man by the member states. the phasing in of new judges has been conceived in a way which ensures that over time the regular terms of office of the two judges of each member state end at the same time. the idea is that this should make it easier for member states to propose one woman and one man. regarding the selection procedure, the decisive criterion for the appointment of judges is not gender but merit. the treaty provides that judges are to be chosen from persons whose independence is beyond doubt and who possess the ability required for appointment to high judicial office. candidates are screened and interviewed by an independent panel of eminent persons, which has set very high standards in terms of qualification and independence and whose opinions on the candidates’ suitability have so far always been followed by member states’ governments. this has led many member states to introduce internal procedures with an open call for candidates and an objective selection to identify the best candidate. this is a welcome development to ensure the highest quality of judges, but of course there is no guarantee that there will be a sufficient number of women among the candidates nor that the best candidate for a given position will be a woman. this brings me back to my initial point, the council conclusions of december 2015 on equality between women and men in the field of decision—making. in order to achieve de facto a more balanced representation of women and men in the general court, we now need to concentrate on different aspects, such as awareness—raising and regular monitoring of progress made. these are no doubt the very legitimate objectives behind ms delvaux’s question and i am confident that the views expressed in today’s debate will be carefully examined and taken into account as much as possible in the capitals of the member states.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, the supreme court of justice of the european union has 28 judges, 11 advocates-general and a registrar. of the 40 members, only 7 are women, 5 of whom are judges and 2 advocates-general. these are figures which embarrass me as a european and make me feel that the time is not so far away when women were legally barred from accessing the judiciary. the european union has no legitimacy to implement policies that require member states and private companies to respect the principle of gender equality. this inequality in the court of justice of the european union is not the responsibility of men alone, but also of some women. when i presented a report on the reform of the general court about a year and a half ago, in october 2015, i proposed an amendment to its rules of procedure to ensure that the number of judges is effectively equal to that of the judges. unfortunately, it wasn't just men who were against it. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the case before it.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report, but we must now put it into practice, and now! member states must work together to combat market fragmentation. the european medicines agency should be called upon, through the extension of its powers, to support this collaborative process. a new directive is needed to ensure greater transparency in pricing procedures and reimbursement guarantees. public efforts to support and encourage research in areas such as rare diseases, which affect specific niches, should be strengthened, and then this effort reflected in price formation or lost intellectual property. to ensure fair and affordable prices for consumers and health services, we need to stimulate the use of generic medicines to increase affordability and support research into innovative medicines for paediatric diseases. the european union and the european project must mean more and better health for its citizens. that is possible and absolutely necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a dangerous farce about the allegedly amicable agreement between portugal and spain on the construction of a temporary nuclear waste storage facility at the almaraz plant, which have committed themselves to a constructive dialogue. calling the ati temporary is a complete sham. the ati is the very key to the survival of nuclear energy in spain, which, since 2010, should have been built next to madrid, but which the opposition of the government of castilla-la mancha has embargoed. the answer to the tragedy of spain's five nuclear power stations being at 90% capacity was almaraz, the obsolete power station next to portugal, whose soil was classified as at risk by the spanish national security council. in 2008 and 2015, portugal and spain signed protocols for consultation on cross-border projects, so this alleged agreement adds nothing new. ironically, the spanish minister for the environment now promises full transparency to her portuguese neighbours and friends, in a rhetoric that convinces no one, claiming that the ati is a pool that has no major environmental impact and that it even improves the current situation. more ironic and dangerous is the fact that the portuguese government has abdicated its national interests by withdrawing the complaint against spain. the portuguese will not give in to manipulation and will only accept the closure of the almaraz power station.
in writing. this programme is based on unacceptable assumptions, from which we are completely distanced. on the one hand, the whitewashing of eu history and policies, artificially imposing a european identity that does not exist. the aim is to create a feeling that, at a time of deep crisis in the eu and in the eu, is far from the legitimate and just distancing of the peoples from the european integration project. on the other hand, we reaffirm the aims of falsifying historical reality, whitewashing nazism-fascism and its class nature, equating fascism with communism, legitimizing the criminalization and outlawing of communist movements. it is overlooked that anti-fascism was and is at the heart of the action and liberation struggle of the communists, for which millions gave their lives, or of the struggle for democracy, as in portugal the pcp and the portuguese communists did. the unparalleled contribution of the soviet revolution and other experiments in building a socialist society to social progress and advancement in all areas of life throughout the world is deliberately concealed. the call for the highest level of implementation of the 'european memory' sub-programme and the commemorations that will be eligible for funding by 2020 speak volumes about the reckoning with history and anti-communism that guides this programme.
mr president, it seems very worrying that the illegal trade in wildlife is continuing to increase and i would like to stress here that it also affects the aquatic domain: red coral, sturgeon eggs and eel fry are trafficked within europe and outside europe. we have made recommendations to third countries, trying to reverse the harmful processes known as iuu fishing. however, i think it is essential to set an example in the home and to prevent illegal trafficking, which in these cases is iuu fishing. i welcome, as the report says, the efforts of the european union in the world trade organisation to prevent harmful fisheries subsidies, which can undermine sustainable fisheries management and threaten the conservation of sensitive species. as we said in the committee on fisheries, i think it is important to recognize the champions of the fight against wildlife trafficking by giving them recognition at european level.
mr president, mercury is one of the world's major pollutants with significant and lasting impacts on human health and the environment. according to who, there are no safe limits for exposure to this heavy metal. about two to three thousand tons are released into the atmosphere annually because of various human activities. once in the environment, mercury accumulates along food chains through a process of bioaccumulation. eating food contaminated with methylmercury - the most toxic form of the organic chemical - is a major source of contamination. the restrictions on the use of mercury, on the import, export, storage and production of products and processes are therefore entirely justified, and we even think that it would have been possible to go further in this area, as the work done by the rapporteur and the initial position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have shown. it would also have been important to make progress in the field of environmental decontamination, an aspect which is neglected in the proposals under consideration.
mr president, this directive proposes to promote greater involvement of shareholders in long-term strategies, but in the face of the problem of investor myopia, which compromises sustainable growth strategies, it creates a purely cosmetic directive which will solve absolutely nothing. this directive takes the problem in reverse, putting this problem on the shareholders, when it is these same shareholders who want short-term returns. shareholders in most cases do not even know the companies because they see them as a mere instrument of savings and financial profitability and nothing more. if we want to counteract the corporate strategies, which are too focused on short-term gains, then we need to involve the parties who are really interested in the long term, we need to involve the workers, the local and regional institutions who must be involved in the discussion and implementation of these strategies and also in wage policy, where we could have gone much further by imposing a ceiling on disparities, but that would of course go too far for those who think that democracy should be at the doorstep of the company.
mr president, discrimination against women in access to goods and services, in terms of their purchasing power and choice, is increasing, and this is inseparable from discrimination in access to quality employment and decent wages and pensions. discriminatory practices in insurance and banking services continue, with differentiated rates and charges based on sex, including weighting factors associated with pregnancy, maternity planning and motherhood itself, which are also taken into account in access to rental and purchase of housing or in obtaining loans. in the area of access to medical goods and services, discrimination and differentiation continue to exist - practices that deserve strong condemnation and must be eliminated; practices that clearly highlight the need to strengthen access to free and quality public services, particularly in sectors such as health or maternity and childcare support services. but we must not forget that inequalities between men and women have deepened at the most basic levels of life, in an unprecedented civilizational retreat, and that this reality cannot be separated from the policies of exploitation and profit, or from the policies of the european union, in particular the austerity and impoverishment policies that promote low wages, precariousness at work and deregulation of work and working hours.
the european parliament will vote on the report i have drawn up on the implications of big data on fundamental rights: privacy, data protection, non-discrimination, security and law enforcement. i am grateful for the contribution of all the shadow rapporteurs, staff, assistants and experts who have contributed to the drafting of this report. we recognize that the data revolution is here, driven by advances in communication technologies and the ubiquity of electronic devices that allow the storage of data about our lives, collected en masse, constantly growing and used without control by public and private entities. as scientist tim berners-lee warned just yesterday, the most pressing risks associated with bulk data processing and algorithmic decision-making are many and include security breaches, unauthorized access, illegal surveillance, discrimination and price differentiation, as well as decision-making and public policy making based on poorly representative, inaccurate data. we therefore propose solutions: investment in digital literacy, creation of ethical standards and transparency in the use of algorithms, cooperation between the public, private and non-governmental sectors, focus on technologies that prioritise privacy and data security, account protection and compensation mechanisms, to name just a few. more urgent than ever is also the protection of reliable and rigorous sources of information, at a time when algorithms are having an increasing impact on the information available to citizens, which can distort, endanger, the fundamental rights to information, as well as freedom of the media and pluralism.we have in the european union the most advanced legal framework in the world for data protection and privacy, embodied in the general data protection regulation a legal certainty standard, which is beneficial and useful to the private sector in the european union and globally. it all depends now on how seriously we take its application and its fulfillment. this report gives parliament's input and points the way to a balance between the interests and fundamental rights of citizens and the needs of businesses. the public and legal debate will certainly continue.
the submission to the euro and its rules, the colossal size of public debts and the monopolistic domination of banking are three factors that constrain economic and social development, limit growth, accentuate the dependence of several countries and the imbalances and inequalities inherent in them. the weight and consequences of these three constraints cannot be ignored any longer. it is essential that a process of renegotiation of public debts and a framework for an organized exit from the euro of countries whose stay in the single currency has proved unsustainable be established at the european level as soon as possible, while minimizing the disruptions inherent in the process. the liberation from the euro, with the recovery of monetary sovereignty, the renegotiation of public debts in their terms, interest and amounts and public control of banking, more than scenarios that should be considered, are already today a necessity that reality imposes on the evidence.
mr president, i would like to begin by saying that it was the commission which linked this legislation to terrorism and that was nonsense. the commission genuinely believed that by making life difficult for hunters, sport shooters and collectors, it would solve some problem of terrorism. i'm sorry to say, but it won't. hunters, marksmen and collectors don't go around closing gun barrels to rob banks or plant bombs on the streets. hunters, collectors, and sport shooters value their weapons. terrorists, on the other hand, do not buy weapons in the highly regulated market, subject to registration, which ultimately allows their identification because of it. terrorists even use, for example, knives, axes, automobiles, and trucks, as in recent attacks. that is not why the commission is going to make the lives of drivers hell. i am glad that the european parliament has been able to work on codecision here. i myself have tabled many amendments and i thank mrs ana maria corazza bildt for her efforts. today we have a text which is completely different from what the commission originally intended, but the purpose makes us fear for what is the legislative effectiveness of who can make a difference there. emotionally, they wanted to connect the regulated market, the hunters, the snipers and the collectors to the fight against terrorism. that was the impetus for the introduction of the legislation here. please combat the black market and the illegal arms trade, and then perhaps you can do something... (the president interrupts the speaker)... in the fight against terrorism.
mr president, commissioner, in this debate i have heard arguments which are very similar, if not identical, to those used in the united states of america by the arms industry to combat the prohibition of the possession and use of weapons. i would like to say that the safety of citizens does not come from the possession or use of firearms, it comes from the right public safety policies. the security of citizens depends on the police, depends on government policy measures, not on citizens carrying weapons. the gun, in the possession of citizens, undermines collective security. the only weapon that should be allowed to the human being is the word, is the argument, are the ideas. the possession and use of firearms, commissioner, mr president, are the remnants of barbarism, situations which should not be allowed in a civilized society. hunting and the use of weapons, even in hunting, are part of a culture of death and not of a culture of defence of life, especially of civilized life in modern societies.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, commissioner, as regards the recycling targets for packaging and packaging waste, given the wide disparity in the starting points of the member states in relation to these targets, now revised upwards, which determines the need for different efforts to achieve the targets set, without compromising the objectives, some temporal flexibility in their implementation is justified, taking into account the diversity of situations. it was a concern of the opinion adopted by the committee on industry. on the other hand, the existence of new, upwardly revised objectives must justify the existence of new means of achieving those objectives, and this is an aspect which has been neglected so far. extended producer responsibility schemes are appropriate both for the prevention of packaging waste and for the establishment of systems ensuring the recovery and/or collection of used packaging and packaging waste from the consumer or the waste stream, along with the reuse or recovery termino , including the recycling of packaging and packaging waste collected, in accordance with the waste management hierarchy.
mr president, in any viable scenario for the future of the european union, the circular economy must be at the centre of attention. the circular economy is an example of the kind of measures we need to put in place to make citizens feel the positive impact of our work on their lives. i welcome the excellent work done by the rapporteur, simona bonafè, and by the whole team who worked on this legislative package. the shadow rapporteurs proposed that the transition and energy efficiency be promoted, that landfilling be phased out until it is completely eliminated, that landfilling of waste that is separately collected be prohibited, that a framework programme be set up for a timetable of targets that further encourage and facilitate separate collection, sorting and recycling, that the transfer of waste within the european union and to third countries be monitored, that an impact study be carried out on the advisability of setting a target for the total amount of waste that can be landfilled, calculated per kilogram, per person and per year. the circular economy has to be more than a good narrative, commissioner. it must be a concrete and positive reality and we have the conditions now to do so.
mr president, we are discussing today the circular economy package, which goes beyond the reductive approach to waste management and recycling, marking a time of redesign of processes, products and new business models. the linear model paradigm no longer responds to the contemporary challenges of resource availability, environmental and social problems arising from the globalisation of markets, the conservation of natural capital, the reduction of emissions and the fight against climate change. the landfill directive will clarify the waste hierarchy, which determines a priority order from prevention through preparation, to reuse, recycling and energy recovery to final disposal. landfilling, although the worst option in the waste hierarchy, is still the most widely used waste disposal method in the european union. we have to change the way we collect and manage our waste. the transformation of waste into resources is crucial to increase resource efficiency and close the loop in a circular economy. this landfill directive is precisely the answer to this ambition.
mr president, a tragedy occurred two days ago in ethiopia with more than 60 people, mostly women and children, losing their lives in a landslide at a rubbish dump. this happened in a country which is a major recipient of funds from the eu. as well as expressing our solidarity with the people of ethiopia, we should ask the commission to enquire into the level of misgovernance and oppression that the eu is funding in ethiopia today, where people are losing their lives at the mercy of a dictatorship which is totally anti-democratic.
madam president, how will the european union act consistently in the un human rights council in an era when the civilizational progress achieved over decades in international human rights law is being threatened by some of its main promoters, as is the case with the election of president trump in the united states, or as is the case with the european union itself, which is entering into an immoral deal with turkey on refugees and which leaves unpunished member states such as hungary that attack, detain and expel refugees and curb the free press and human rights organisations? i would like to emphasize, however, the courageous work of high commissioner al hussein in denouncing serious human rights violations throughout the world, including in authoritarian and repressive regimes that are protected by the united states and the european union itself. i give as examples the massacres of irreecha, ethiopia, in 2016, and the massacre of mount sumi, angola, in 2015, for which the un high commissioner called for independent investigations. the european union has an interest and an obligation to defend the functioning, integrity and independence of the office of the high commissioner for human rights and to enhance the work of the un human rights council. this is all the more crucial when president trump threatens to cut 50 percent of the united states' contribution to the un, striking at several agencies and calling into question the multilateral system, which, despite all its inadequacies and deficiencies, has kept humanity from precipitating a collective catastrophe.
madam president, the un human rights bodies are now called upon to deal with setbacks in this field, all over the world. in addition to the situations which have been rightly identified as priorities in the resolution tabled by my group, i would like to use this speech to refer specifically to the situation in latin america. the human rights situation in several latin american countries is very worrying. this region has too high a rate of human rights violations. take, for example, the real epidemic of violence linked to criminal organizations and corrupt security forces that is affecting central american countries such as el salvador, honduras, guatemala, and mexico today. in addition to the thousands of deaths and the climate of widespread impunity, this violence is creating hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons in what is already a genuine migration crisis. i cannot fail to mention venezuela, where at the moment there are hundreds of political prisoners in humiliating conditions. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. many of the human rights violations in this region have a particular historical and cultural context. this is the case for indigenous peoples, whose rights to their ancestral territories continue to be disrespected, in parallel with the criminalization of environmental activism and the persecution of those who defend the rights of these minorities. it is true that some progress has been made, but reforms that are truly capable of protecting human rights in a consistent way are lagging behind in most latin american countries. it is time for the un to pay more attention to the human rights situation in this important region of the globe.
mr president, this long work on tax fraud and tax evasion reflects a very concrete reality, and if it were not for the multiple tax scandals that have brought this issue to public attention, it would still be in the shadows of the european union's government offices. we now know that tax fraud and tax evasion are widespread throughout the european union and that governments continue to make tax deals with multinationals while punishing their own people with austerity policies. in other words, tax fraud and tax evasion are not the result of spontaneous generation, nor do they represent any dysfunction of the system. tax fraud and tax evasion are one of the increasingly visible features of the capitalist system and the subordination of political power to economic power. only a political break with this system, by giving way to public control of the financial system and capital movements, can pave the way to a lasting solution that can effectively combat this phenomenon and put an end to the tax evasion of multinationals sponsored by the european union and its member states.
on behalf of the group. mr president, i would like to greet the commissioner, to greet my colleagues and to congratulate my fellow rapporteur on the excellence of his work, on the consensus he is able to bring about and involve all the groups, which means that we will once again have a parliament united in this objective of wanting the best for the european union and the best possible budget also for the citizens. the european union's budget is small - it amounts to about 1% of gross domestic product. when we compare it to the us federal budget, we see the difference clearly, since the federal budget is 20% of gdp. but this budget, being small, has enormous added value and the proof is that in many regions it is the only investment available and in many member states it also represents more than 50% of that investment. the european union budget is an investment budget: 94% of the budget is for investment and only 6% is for administration. i congratulate the rapporteur once again on having set clear priorities for employment, growth and security, and this obviously has to have consequences in terms of the programmes we have, such as cosme for smes, but also essential programmes for young people, such as erasmus+. but jobs, growth and competitiveness are also built on innovation and research, and it is therefore important that we provide horizon 2020 with the means to achieve this. 2018 is the fifth year of the multiannual financial framework, commissioner, and i hope that cohesion policy in 2018 will reach its maximum speed, as there has been a delay in the implementation of the programmes and as in 2016 there was even more than €13 billion that was not executed. it is therefore essential, commissioner, that cohesion policy and the other funds should be implemented at full speed in 2018, especially as this is the fifth year of the multiannual financial framework, and that there should be sufficient amounts for payments. a strong word for the youth, who have always been our priority. a youth who are about twice as unemployed as other generations and so it is crucial that the youth employment initiative programme has the necessary amounts and the sufficient amounts for this purpose. it is important that erasmus+, which promotes mobility and vocational training, also has the necessary minimum objectives and sufficient amounts. i therefore thank the rapporteur once again for this excellent proposal and i am sure that in this process which is now beginning, parliament will always be able to respond to the wishes, the will and the hopes of the citizens.
the speech of compassion and compassion in relation to the famine in somalia, nigeria, yemen and south sudan cannot erase the need to look at the root causes of this humanitarian tragedy, nor the proper allocation of responsibilities. the reasons for the famine are political in the first place. the interventions of the imf and the world bank and the prevailing neoliberal orientations, the significant increase in the cost of the factors of production in agriculture, inseparable from the power and role of the multinationals, the drastic reduction in the purchasing power of the urban population, the dismantling of social programs, the debt and debt service garrote, the replacement of the state grain reserves and the mechanisms for fixing prices of agricultural products on local markets by the chicago stock exchange, by a world market dominated by the multinational agribusiness and speculators, the civil wars and the various conflicts instigated by external powers such as the united states, saudi arabia and european countries, the external interference and the imperialist drive to control natural resources such as oil. all of this has led to what the united nations has called the greatest tragedy, the greatest humanitarian crisis, since its inception in 1945. a change of policy is needed and emergency humanitarian aid is needed, with the european union taking greater responsibility. at a time when scientific and technical development is reaching levels that would easily eradicate hunger, its persistence is one of the most vivid libels against the world-dominant capitalist system.
madam president, we are witnessing a digital revolution, driven by the acceleration of technology, in the capacity to capture, process and transmit data. this revolution is an opportunity to reshape the society we live in, making it more people-centred, less unequal and more sustainable. so this revolution cannot be driven by technology. it is technology that must be instrumental in relation to the vision of the european gigabit society that we choose to realize. i welcome the draft legislative resolution under consideration and, in particular, the excellent work carried out by my colleague, mrs patrícia toia. taking on board the virtualities of the commission proposal, the agreement ensures improvements in the good allocation of spectrum resources in the european union, allowing the development of a new generation of technology-leading and inclusive wireless broadband services. this is also the philosophy behind the wifi4eu initiative, of which i am rapporteur, and which aims precisely to provide european citizens with a good experience of access to the european gigabit society, regardless of their economic situation or geographical location. in summary, madam president, the project under consideration is a very important step towards the realisation of a digital union, which will put the european union back on the front line of a revolution in the service of people, the economy and the quality of life of europeans.
mr president, beyond scenarios the european union needs a clear choice. the clear choice should be to do much better together on the relevant priorities. therefore, i believe that the real debate to be developed is on whether – and how – we should deliver on these relevant priorities, first of all providing our citizens with better working and living conditions. all working people in europe should count on a clear contract with fundamental rights and full access to social protection. this is a central piece of the social pillar which must be included in the rome declaration. we also need to make sure that more investment and better jobs will be delivered with stronger means. that is why the rome declaration must include a full reform of the eurozone with the banking union and the fiscal capacity. we need to make sure that europe remains a central pillar of the multilateral system and for international cooperation, but we also need to make sure that the next trade agreements will enforce our social and environmental standards. most of all, the rome declaration needs to assert, 60 years later, the european union as a powerful, political, economic, social and cultural entity, but most of all a democratic entity. that is why we need to fully involve european citizens and the european parliament in defining this rome declaration. (applause)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission, first of all, i would naturally like to congratulate president donald tusk on his re-election, which i believe is also a great sign for europe, because he represents precisely this idea of a more integrated, more united europe, in which all the members, north and south, east and west, are committed to the european project. secondly, i would like to draw attention to a point which was discussed in the council, namely the question of the western balkans. i think it is essential at this time for the european union to strengthen its presence in the balkan states, bosnia-herzegovina, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro, albania and kosovo, because the situation is extremely difficult, extremely difficult, and we are in an atmosphere of tension, which in some way anticipates conflicts, wars and major differences between the various states and within each state. it is therefore essential that the european council and the council as a whole, the commission, in particular through the high representative, but also through the president, and the european parliament itself, strengthen their interaction with all these states and give a signal and a perspective that they can become part of the european union in the near future.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to a point in this debate on the preparation of the rome declaration which has been neglected and which, in my view, deserves greater emphasis from the european union. as the recent negotiation of the canada trade agreement (ceta) has shown, international trade, although not consensual among all european political families, has a majority acceptance by the countries of the european union. it is even planned to include in the rome declaration a section which advocates the affirmation of the european union in the world through an active policy of promoting free and fair trade, building new partnerships that promote global stability and prosperity. the problem is that in the text of that same declaration latin america is ignored. we must seek closer relations with latin america, especially at a time when the region is undergoing transformations that make it not only more willing to establish partnerships but also more vulnerable to attempts at control by other global actors.
in writing. the european council's conclusions can be summed up in one sentence: little or nothing new, and, in what is new, more of the same or even worse. a clear bet on the security and militaristic drift. they don't even bother to disguise the defense of race as military spending. the debate on growth and jobs, that one, is postponed until november. the insistence on the battery of blackmail and imposition that we are all familiar with, with regard to the economic policy lines of the euro zone and the associated recommendations. the need for structural reforms, the deepening of the single market and the completion of the banking union is a tiresome repetition of the same old story. old recipes that won't bring new results. the usual profession of faith in free trade treaties and the usual disregard for democracy and national sovereignty in allowing ceta to enter into force before it has been ratified by the member states. nor is there any mention of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, whose approval is being prepared in secret, in the interests of the old-timers. no propaganda can hide the enormous and growing contradictions which the european union carries in its bosom. the solution to these contradictions obviously lies beyond the scenarios set out in the european commission's white paper.
the crisis of the process of european capitalist integration is inseparable, on the one hand, from the more general crisis of capitalism and, on the other, from the matrix characteristics and objectives of the process itself. sixty years after the signing of the treaty of rome, the treaty establishing the european economic community (eec) and the european atomic energy community, the eec/eu is facing the most serious crisis of its existence. the depth and persistence of this crisis mean that for the first time it is openly admitted that integration may lead to disintegration, which will be manifested by the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, known as brexit. contrary to what some people are trying to make us believe, this crisis is not the result of short-term factors. the deep roots of the crisis lie in the (capitalist) nature of the integration process. any leaps forward without changing this matrix will only deepen the crisis. what europe and its peoples are demanding is not more of the same, but a project of breaking with this eu, aimed at building another model of development, a europe of the peoples of cooperation and development that respects the sovereignty of each state.
mr president, i am thinking of solidarity with the victims one year after the brussels attacks, and then criticism of the european governments, which continue to deny reality. the paris attacks should have been the turning point for real and effective european security cooperation, which involves the sharing of information and intelligence. instead, we now have not one, but 28+1 pnrs. the directive, presented by the council as a magic bullet, does not even make it compulsory to share the data collected, nor does it require the monitoring of private flights. instead of cooperation, we see european governments chasing the xenophobic far-right, selling the idea that terrorism comes from outside, brought by foreign fighters, infiltrated among refugees, and that by building walls and barbed wire on borders we will be safer. it's a lie, it's immoral and it's dangerous. the terrorists who struck us in paris and brussels and other cities were european-made, proving that we need to invest in programmes to prevent radicalisation and in inclusive social policies. where are they? where are they? we need legal and safe routes for refugees and migrants in order to stop feeding the business of trafficking networks and associated organised crime. where are these legal and safe ways? instead, we have the gold and investors' visas programmes, with a green light for foreigners with a lot of money, in a scheme that calls into question the integrity of schengen, imports crime and invites money laundering and the financing of terrorism. we need a coherent foreign policy. we look at libya, which is a very good result ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner king, a year ago, the barbaric situation was in brussels. before it had been paris and copenhagen and then it would become nice, munich and berlin. nothing justifies terrorism and what matters is to prevent it, because no sanction against criminals reduces the suffering of the victims. i repeat what i have said many times here: we have always linked the freedom of movement with the safety of our citizens. these are two fundamental rights which we have a duty to protect. in the last year we have reacted in a hot-button fashion, with member states making advances and retreats, but we have undoubtedly made some important steps. we have strengthened europol, guaranteed the rights of victims, increased controls at external borders and tackled radicalisation. however, as roberta metsola said, we can do more and better. i have always advocated the best use of the instruments we have on the ground, rather than the multiplication of announcements of new measures. the schengen information system is a prime example. the system most used by the police remains with its potential yet to be fulfilled. but the review of its legal basis will soon make better information available to the competent authorities. that's the message i want to highlight here today. in the fight against terrorism, mutual trust, greater cooperation and better information are essential. that should be our focus on the work ahead.
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union is the biggest trader of the world; the biggest importer and the biggest exporter. so you are absolutely right: with that size comes a great responsibility and over the years this house has played an important role to raise awareness about the important issue of trade in conflict minerals. thanks to your engagement and many people’s hard work here, very soon players in the mineral supply chain across the world are more aware of their obligations. we will continue to work in awareness-raising, including in small and medium size and even micro companies from the commission’s side. the legislation represents a major contribution to a modern trade policy, promoting values, shaping globalisation and ensuring that economic development is also sustainable. the link between minerals and financing conflicts is not acceptable in the world today; too many people have suffered. soon we will have in place an effective and workable eu system to break this cycle; and this will benefit all those who have suffered including many children and women. it will benefit those who have seen their lives blighted, their futures falling apart because of war and instability linked to illicit trade in minerals. we have taken note of your views here. we will continue to engage with you on the monitoring and implementation of this regulation. it is not perfect, but it is a very important step forward and, as was mentioned, we also have a lot of accompanying measures in order to make this work. so thank you very much for the hard work done by the rapporteur, shadow rapporteurs, involved committees and others.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is an important question. the commission is a strong supporter of a vibrant, dynamic system of political parties active in a european-level public space. this is important in our european union based on democracy, as we have just heard. it contributes to the democratic foundations of our work together, including some of the bases for the election of the commission president and the appointment of the commission. we therefore welcome the opportunity to discuss the question of european political parties and foundations today, in particular – as has just been noted – the regulation adopted by parliament and the council in november 2014 is now coming into effect. the new regulation brings into play important innovations. these include a european-level legal personality for parties and foundations, and a more robust set of governance arrangements, including a new authority for european political parties and foundations, and enhanced safeguards to ensure respect for fundamental european values by all parties registered under the scheme. on this last point, it is now a condition for registration as a european party or foundation that the entity concerned respects, both in its programme and in its activities, the values on which the european union is founded: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, and respect for human rights, including the right of people belonging to minorities. this clarity is most welcome. furthermore, at any time after registration, parliament, the council or the commission may ask the new authority to verify whether a particular party or foundation continues to comply with these requirements. after consulting a new permanent committee of independent eminent persons, the authority can decide to deregister a party or foundation which is found not to comply, unless parliament or the council disagrees. this is an important standing safeguard. so the new regulation is a welcome and substantive improvement to the rules governing political parties and a good defence instrument for our european values. beyond this, the commission has taken good note of the suggestions for further possible changes to the regulation, which are outlined in the oral question in front of us today (the initiative of the committee on constitutional affairs). we take these suggestions very seriously. even good rules can be further improved. the commission is fully prepared to assist parliament with well-reflected initiatives and proposals. of course, in line with our better regulation principles, our normal practice – as you know – is to evaluate existing legislation before proposing changes, and to assess fully the potential impact of such changes. as president tajani always says, quality is often as important as speed. i am pleased that the regulation includes a very early review clause with first parliament and then the commission being obliged to report on its implementation in the coming months. the commission’s report will be accompanied by proposals for any legislative changes that appear necessary. the commission is more than willing to engage, in depth, with parliament and the council to monitor closely the early stages of implementing the new regulation and to reflect together on whether early proposals for change might be justified. the commission will be very open, if you agree, to setting up quickly an interinstitutional process – perhaps under the auspices of the new authority – to review developments, assess suggestions from stakeholders, and hopefully converge on a common approach. this would also help pave the way for the formal reviews that must in any case take place next year. turning to the specific suggestions, i would like to share some initial comments while stressing again that the commission rules nothing out at this stage. first, on reducing the co-financing requirement. in 2012, the commission, taking up a request from parliament, proposed just such a change. unfortunately, this met with strong opposition in the council and was not included in the final text adopted by the co-legislators. as things stand, it is not clear that a new proposal on these lines would meet a different fate. second, on increasing the level of representation required in this house before applying for eu funding. we need to consider carefully the principles of proportionality and equal treatment, since the rules on party funding should not tilt the balance in favour of incumbents, compared with new political movements, provided of course these new movements also uphold european values. third, on cross-membership. the issue here is whether meps from a national party which is affiliated to a european party should be able to be members, on an individual basis, of different european parties. the new regulation already makes clear that in such circumstances, the individual membership does not count towards the representation threshold for funding of a european party. could a similar restriction apply to the threshold for registration? we can think about it and examine the potential consequences. on the other hand, we are not aware of an objective basis for limiting choices of meps in this regard when their national party is not affiliated to a european one. fourth, is the question of whether european parties should be able to finance campaigns for national referendums on eu issues. the commission would like to hear the views of parliament and member states on this important but sensitive matter. as concerns several more technical issues such as a financial capacity criterion, we are happy to take a closer look. parliament could also see how far its own implementing rules could be adjusted to help within the framework of the existing regulation. finally, we see many arguments against allowing reserve-building by parties and foundations. this would seem to go against the budgetary principles of annuality and sound financial management, and would increase risks to the control of eu contributions by making it more difficult to identify and correct possible irregularities. it would make it more likely that, should there be irregular spending, it would have to be recovered after european elections rather than before, which could prove sensitive for reasons we can all imagine. so at this stage, we continue to think the existing n+2 rule strikes the right balance. as i said, the commission is keen to engage on all these issues with parliament and with the council, so we look forward to hearing all of your views in today’s debate.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, public funding of european political parties is of the utmost importance for the rule of law, but it generates conflicting tensions within the democratic system. on the one hand, public subsidies to parties reduce the need for their private funding, and consequently the propensity for corruption, i.e. for the proliferation of public decisions in exchange for private payments or advantages. but on the other hand, public funding of parties generates a huge capacity to turn political struggle into a professional activity, which becomes attractive for its remuneration and personal benefits rather than for its intrinsic purposes of public service and citizenship. the most harmful consequence of the professionalisation of political activity is that the professional interests of political actors overlap or predominate over the collective interests of the citizens they represent. moreover, this professionalisation favours cloudiness and opacity rather than transfer. transparency not only in the allocation of funding but also in the way political parties spend that money. the best response to preventing these dangers lies more in creating mechanisms that effectively ensure such transparency, as well as effective public scrutiny of party spending, than in yielding to populist pressures or impulses to reduce or make it more difficult for european democratic parties to access public funding. the money of european taxpayers will only be well spent if it is used only to achieve the public ends that have determined the collection of taxes from citizens. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i am an unfailing defender of freedom of expression and have been for more than fifty years, since i have known myself as a citizen, first against the fascist dictatorship in portugal and then against other attempts to limit it. in this respect, mr coburn, i adopt the maxim of montesquieu, or rather voltaire, that although i do not agree with anything you say, i have fought with all my strength so that you may say it freely. freedom of expression is the twin brother of accountability and abuses of freedom of expression in the political struggle must be fought politically and not administratively or through the courts.
in writing. this is a report in which we make actionable recommendations in the light of the current eu legal framework for effective cooperation in the area of security and defence. we believe that the european defence agency (eda) and the permanent enhanced cooperation mechanism (pesco) should be treated as eu institutions sui generis and financed from the union budget, which needs to be considerably strengthened. we stress the role that the eda should play in coordinating between member states, in particular in capacity building and equipment acquisition, with economic and efficiency gains. we call for the establishment of a permanent seat for the csdp and the pesco, and we clarify that no member state wishing to join the pesco should be excluded. we call for the reform of the athena mechanism to ensure a fair distribution of operational costs and for member states to be encouraged to contribute forces, not being restricted by their financial capacities. more than ever, the eu needs to equip itself with the tools to ensure its own security and defence, in the face of threats common to all member states and with the growing unpredictability of acting within nato, clearly breached by trump, whatever his ministers say.
madam president, the biodiversity of the arctic and the nature of its ecosystems make it critically important for the biological, chemical and physical balance of the entire planet. industrial resource exploitation therefore poses special challenges in the arctic and calls for urgent international cooperation. the destruction of the boreal ice is already releasing methane from permafrost soils, thus amplifying global warming. going any further is like fueling a fire with gasoline. the arctic should be seen as our canary in a coal mine, as my colleague mrs schaldemose said, an alarm system to speed up action to reduce the human processes that amplify global warming. exploring arctic resources has to be viewed with great concern. a new source of fossil resource exploitation will not be compatible with the ambitions of a decarbonised economy and the paris agreement. the european union is in a privileged position to facilitate cooperation and dialogue between the countries concerned. three principles should emerge: protection, sustainable and precautionary use and international cooperation. the fact is that today's economies are living in a state of toxic dependence on fossil fuels, a civilization alcoholicism that we don't want to get out of. opening the "cabaret of the last chance" in the arctic, where we will drink more and more, and one more glass, will be the ultimate sign of civilization's recklessness.
madam president, the times we live in require clear positions from all global actors and the european union in particular in the most sensitive areas for the sustainability of the planet. the signals given by the new us administration and the possible contagion of other global resource exploiters is a great risk for the planet, but at the same time it opens a window of opportunity for european leadership in the transition to the green and blue economy. i therefore stress the importance of this own-initiative report. the environmental conditions of the north seas are so sensitive and vulnerable that even a slight disturbance in their structure can have irreversible consequences. the arctic region is already suffering the impacts of climate change, with glacier melt accelerating. the increase in the exploitation of oil and gas reserves in the region would increase the imbalance of its ecosystems. in the context of the energy transition in all areas of society, and in particular in transport, a cautious approach such as that proposed in the report under consideration seems to me to be the most appropriate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the social, environmental and economic challenges facing the arctic region are great: a small population spread over a large area, the dramatic effect of climate change, increasing competition for access to its natural and mineral resources and the opening up of new shipping routes and fishing areas. the arctic is also a region of growing geostrategic importance. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. scientific assessments show us clearly that this is a fragile and endangered ecosystem, that it has more than half of the world's wetlands, that its summer sea ice volume has decreased by more than 40 percent in 35 years, and that the temperature increase has been increasing at a rate approximately twice the global average. ladies and gentlemen, climate change in the arctic is having a major impact on coastal regions worldwide, including in the european union. coastal erosion and rising sea levels are just some of the environmental problems caused by climate change in the arctic, which are being felt drastically, in some cases, around the world. i therefore consider this own-initiative report to be an important step towards the european union taking a leading role in safeguarding the environmental fragility of the arctic and the fundamental rights of indigenous peoples and local populations. but, ladies and gentlemen, time is running out and it is time for action, not mere intentions.
madam president, the operating models of democratic societies are being radically reconfigured by the adoption of new information and communication technologies. this report is therefore very timely. i welcome the rapporteur, ramón jáuregui, for the concise, pragmatic and structured way in which he identifies the potential and the challenges of e-democracy. the acceleration of technology must not call into question the fundamental values of representative democracy. on the contrary, technology should be used to strengthen it. i would like to highlight three dimensions, in the time i can, that are fundamental: the qualification of citizens for the digital society, transparency and equity in access to relevant information and, finally, the possibility of spreading the possibility of face-to-face electronic voting. these are three opportunities and three lines of work for us to harness technology to strengthen democracy. thank you very much for the excellent report.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, our colleague marco affronte, as well as the other shadow rapporteurs and the representatives of the institutions at trilogue level. i think we have a good regulation. as the socialists and democrats' shadow rapporteur for this report, i would stress that scientific data on fisheries have been essential for knowledge-based management and decision-making. the revision we are approving here opens up new possibilities for cooperation between member states, making cooperation at regional level more coherent. as i myself come from a scientific institution dealing with fisheries data, i stress the importance of the consistency of the information collected. this new regulation also emphasises the possibility of scientific cruises and not just the acquisition of biological data from the landings of commercial fisheries. scientific cruises, independent of commercial fishing, are key to completing a holistic view of resources. another very important aspect is greater transparency in access to data resulting from the programmes covered by the regulation. institutions with a valid reason may request the fisheries data obtained from the collection systems financed at european level. this diploma will promote transparency and will certainly result in better knowledge to support better management. however, there is concern about the lack of guarantees for the participation of regional authorities in the planning and collection phases. as the bodies most closely dealing with the problems, in many cases regional governments do have responsibilities in managing resources and may, if this is the member state's interpretation, be left out of the process. i'll keep an eye out and make sure no one gets left out. finally, i would like to stress the elegance with which the question of the legitimacy of monitoring and implementation of the programme was resolved. after a lively and intensive legal dialogue at trilogue level, an effective solution was reached. the mixed approach between delegated and implementing acts legitimises the specificity of each of the european governance institutions.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would also like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work and express my solidarity with the approach he has put forward in his report, which is to stress the need for scientific data to be able to assess the impacts of fishing, not only in terms of the reproductive capacity of stocks, in terms of quantity, but also and above all in terms of the environmental sustainability of this economic activity, which is so necessary for economic development and so necessary for the livelihood of millions of families around the world. i would like to say that sustainability must necessarily include the environmental issue. there is no sustainability if we don't protect the environment and if we don't all get involved in this project and this work to protect the environmental quality of the oceans. only then will fisheries be sustainable, only then will fisheries be able to fulfil their economic objective. but on the other hand, i would also like to stress that a balance must be struck between the interests of professional fishing and the interests of tourism associated with recreational fishing in certain regions. there are situations where recreational fishermen have privileges over professional fishermen and this is not acceptable. finally, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the policy of collecting and consolidating data for the purpose of good management of fisheries policy is only possible if there is investment, increased investment in scientific research. more money is needed for scientific research in the oceans, which will enable reliable data to be collected, which can fulfil its informative mission.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. the need to collect, manage and use fisheries data in sufficient quantity and quality is indisputable, as is the need to make these data comparable and integrable at national, regional and international level. there is a dimension to resource management that obviously goes beyond national borders, and this requires genuine cooperation and concerted action at international level. what is questionable, however, is whether these needs are better met within the framework of the centralized vision that continues to prevail in the european union's common fisheries policy. this vision is concretized in the institutional framework provided for in the treaty of lisbon, which confers exclusive powers on the european union in this field, something which has always been in our disagreement. time has shown the pernicious nature of this view. moreover, the european union, which wrongly has exclusive competence in policy-making, is shifting a substantial part of the costs of financing that policy onto the member states, failing to assume the full responsibility for financing, for example, the acquisition and management of data. do we want more and better data? i'm not sure. we want greater scrutiny and greater transparency in their use, but we do not support a view of resource management which we believe is fundamentally wrong.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our ukrainian friends here. it is not the first time that we in this house have condemned the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol by russia and the systematic use of persecution, kidnapping, torture, arbitrary detention and extrajudicial executions to silence and subjugate the peninsula. for political reasons, 45 ukrainian citizens are currently being held in inhumane and degrading conditions. it is to them, to the tatars who have lived in crimea for centuries, and to all ukrainians who have been fighting for the territorial integrity of their country for three years, that we must once again send a clear political signal of support, not only by condemning these systematic violations of human rights, but also by fully implementing the association agreement with the european union and by bringing visa liberalization into force immediately. we cannot allow these urgent steps to be held hostage to the electoral calendars of several member states, some of which are now home to movements and parties to which those who courageously fight for the values of the maidan can give lessons on what it means to be truly european. mr. president, i am ukrainian, now and always.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this resolution that draws attention to the arrest of senator de lima, former secretary of justice, former chair of the human rights commission to the philippines and, as has been underlined, one of the most outspoken critics of the so-called war on drugs. the eu has called on the philippines to respect its obligations under international and domestic law, in particular to ensure the respect for the rule of law and human rights. this includes the right to due process, the independence of the judiciary, and a fair trial for all citizens. the proceedings in the case of senator de lima will be followed closely by the public, both in the philippines and internationally. the eu will continue to underline the importance of the freedom of expression and opinion. as regards the wider human rights situation in the philippines, the eu and member states, in various meetings both in brussels and manila, have conveyed their significant concerns on the legality of the killings in the so-called war on drugs. we have underlined the need for effective investigations of all killings, due process and access to remedies in this respect, and our concerns on the proposal to reintroduce the death penalty and on the proposal to lower the minimum age for criminal responsibility. we have called for the protection of human rights defenders, and underlined the importance of the freedom of expression and the freedom of opinion. the eu set out these concerns in its statement to the un human rights council earlier this week. the eu and member states will remain engaged with the philippines on all of these issues. at the same time, as has been recognised, we will also continue to assist the philippine government in their efforts on the peace process, the economy and poverty reduction. further to a request by the department of health, the eu is prepared to continue to provide assistance in support of a holistic approach to drugs policy. under the multiannual indicative programme, the strengthening of the rule of law through legal and judicial reform is one of two key sectors. in particular, the eu governance in justice programme includes activities related to criminal justice and contributes to strengthening the capacity of the human rights commission of the philippines.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the 39th anniversary of the kidnapping of italian politician aldo moro in rome by a far-left group known as the red brigades. moro would end up being murdered in cold blood by his captors about two months later, more specifically on may 9, 1978. the death of aldo moro was the result of a combination of two factors: the bloodthirsty fanaticism of his captors and the inhuman intransigence of the italian government, which refused to heed the huge demands of aldo moro's family and of aldo moro himself to release the leaders of the red brigades who were in prison. the question i want to ask you today, ladies and gentlemen, in the european parliament, is whether the italian government's intransigence has been worth it. we have all made the legal or judicial, political and moral judgments of the material perpetrators of the crime, but the murderers of aldo moro were tried, convicted and eventually released. they are all free today, but no one has given life back to aldo moro. so when new fanaticism and other intransigence appear on the european horizon, the question i leave you with is: was aldo moro's sacrifice worth it?
mr president, there will certainly be much to discuss about venezuela, certainly not in terms that this house knows or ever will, namely the example that venezuela is of sovereign development in the service of a people. the discussion that is being proposed is not about solidarity with the venezuelan people. instead, it ignores the real causes of the economic crisis, feeds the most reactionary right wing that destabilizes the country, that promotes contempt and public disorder, that does not respect the separation of powers that you are so fond of evoking, that boycotts political dialogue. this debate and the resolution attached to it will not contribute to the necessary calm or to the ongoing dialogue, but rather will interfere with the sovereign decisions of a country, which is why we reject them. let me remind you, mr president, of two questions about your recent statements. the president said he was speaking on behalf of the european parliament. mr. president, you have no counterparts in venezuela, because you do not represent any sovereign body.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me clarify that the s&d group supports the idea of a debate, but does not consider that we should have a resolution. we just want the debate to take place.
madam president, commissioner, the question you have brought to us today, namely the questions we can put to the european commission, is one of the few ways in which european citizens can get in touch with the european commission through us, their representatives, the members of the european parliament. i think it is not serious to say that it depends on the quality of the question, because it is often the citizens who are able to identify the problems of non-application of community legislation, for example in the field of the environment, and we are their spokesmen. what the commission often does is to say that it has nothing to add, that it is not its responsibility, that it is not to blame. the only ways that one can really answer it, it rarely adds anything to what we already know. i mean, commissioner, that this is a matter of profound democratic importance, because the democratic deficit we have between citizens and the commission is also measured by the quality of the european commission's responses to its citizens, through meps, and in this sense, commissioner, it is not a burden, it is a democratic obligation which they must take very, very seriously.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. what tools are being used to detect victims of trafficking, are there real data on the number of victims, with the flow of migrants in europe how has prevention developed, how have they protected children and women who are the main targets of traffickers? plus, how many dealers have been arrested in the union? do we have that data? this lack of information does indeed sound a little, very little. notice that there are about ten thousand migrant children missing on european soil. many of them will have been victims of trafficking, which clearly shows a lack of coordination, cooperation and political inconsistency in the results. what is more tragic is our inability to create effective measures and that at this moment, among the nearly 21 million children trafficked worldwide, many will be working or being sexually exploited. most of them still have faith in us.
madam president, commissioner, palm oil is widely used in the food industry and also in the cosmetics and biofuels sectors, and the truth is that over the last 20 years its production has become unsustainable and has resulted in massive deforestation, the loss of natural habitats, the near extinction of many species and the consequent increase in greenhouse gas emissions. many cases of child labor and the expropriation of indigenous lands for palm oil production are also reported. in this context, the european union - the third largest market for this raw material in the world - has a major responsibility. it should take a leading role in combating wasteful and abusive consumption of palm oil and adopt minimum sustainability criteria for its certified palm oil imports, and also phase out the use of these vegetable oils in biofuel production, increase traceability and labelling, and inform consumers. this report is a step in the right direction and i congratulate the rapporteurs on that.
madam president, last week in the town of mocoa in southern colombia, 250 people lost their lives as a result of heavy rains and landslides that devastated 17 neighbourhoods in that town. in the capital of indonesia, a similar incident took place last week that claimed the lives of several people and left many others missing. around the world, these kinds of calamities occur, usually affecting those who are the most vulnerable in society: the poor and the destitute. the cause is recurrent: the intensive destruction of forest habitats through constant deforestation for agricultural exploitation and for the construction of infrastructure such as dams and levees. i believe that now is the right time for the european union to promote an action plan against deforestation and forest degradation, as well as against palm oil production. there are many vast problems today affecting tropical ecosystems, which occupy only 7 percent of the earth's surface. palm oil is increasingly being used as biofuel and a substantial part of its production is not respecting human rights, using child labour. the report stresses that respect for fundamental human rights, forest protection and sustainable palm oil production are compatible objectives. the european union must now strive to ensure that by 2020 all palm oil consumed in europe is sustainable. i hope that tomorrow's vote will reflect the urgency of action.
madam president, commissioner, this oral question is of undeniable importance, since such important matters as food safety and the protection of public health are at stake. the entry into the european union of spoiled meat, from whatever source, cannot be tolerated. the community authorities are responsible for taking the necessary steps to ascertain what has happened and to remedy it immediately. what we cannot do is use this particular case as a pretext to call into question the success of the negotiations under way to establish a trade association agreement between the european union and mercosur. it is worth recalling that this case was detected and denounced by the brazilian authorities themselves and affects only a small part of the vast meat production sector in that country. it refers to 22 companies, of which only 4 exported to the european union. the european commission has already stated that the current situation of brazilian meat does not represent an obstacle to the negotiations on the eu-mercosur agreement. we have worked with the brazilian authorities to solve this plant health problem. we must not be tempted to turn this into a serious problem of trade relations between two regional blocs which have every interest in ensuring their political, economic, cultural and commercial rapprochement.
a few words as president of the delegation for relations with brazil. firstly, to emphasize that the words to be conveyed to our fellow citizens must be of enlightenment, reassurance and confidence. the authorities on both sides of the atlantic have acted quickly and, as far as we know, effectively. however, we have a market under pressure and if we are talking about brazilian meat today, in the past we have already talked about mad cow disease, poorly labelled equine meat, bird flu, and even the warnings from the world health organization. and in fact, when the meat is on the plate, few consumers know its origin or its nationality. we are facing a problem which affects everyone and not just the meat producers in a particular country. companies in this value chain with sales in europe are therefore required to strictly comply with the legislation, but the competent authorities are also required to ensure compliance. secondly, to reaffirm that we are dealing with a court case. i therefore underline the merit of the investigation by the brazilian authorities, which identified these irregular practices, and the speed, transparency and effectiveness of the subsequent actions. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that the mercosur-eu trade agreement is welcome, because, in addition to the obvious economic benefits, it will strengthen the closeness and cooperation between our peoples.
madam president, european farmers have made great efforts over the years to produce better, to the highest standards in the world, the highest standards in terms of animal welfare, food safety and, in the case of beef production, individual traceability, as required by european legislation. it is obviously important that europe, when importing animals from third countries, should at least require the same requirements from exporting countries as it does from european farmers, so as not to destroy the confidence of consumers in the meat sold in europe, which has cost european farmers so much effort and the european union so many economic resources. in this case we must recognize that it was the brazilian authorities themselves who denounced the case, which means that the control in brazil worked, but at the same time it means that in the european union the control was not effective, because if the meat was adulterated it was not detected as such in the european union and it is this internal control in the european union, madam president, that we must also question.
in trade agreements i have been advocating a regulated market which guarantees food safety for products entering the european union and fair conditions for their production. we must protect european farmers from unfair competition by not allowing products to enter without the same production criteria as those we require in the european union, and by ensuring fairness in costs. we cannot accept two criteria, one more permissive for outsiders and one more demanding for our farmers. the situation in question is criminal and one-off, but it has revealed serious control failures which are systemic. adulterated and adulterated meat is being introduced into the union to the detriment of our farmers because of a lack of fairness. i am in favour of mercosur, but i am in favour of a 'regulated' mercosur and that is why i am now advocating a review of the mercosur negotiations on meat, on the grounds of consumer protection and the protection of european farmers.
madam president, the brazilian judicial authorities have identified various frauds in some of the meat consignments exported from brazil to europe and other parts of the world. this is unfortunate! but it should be emphasized the effectiveness of the operation that detected the fraud and the quick reaction of the authorities who suspended companies, launched audits and prosecuted the state officials involved. another dimension of the scandal is the impact it could have on food security in brazil, or beyond. we have to protect the consumer. this investigation has to go all the way. but in this context, it is not acceptable to use this case as a weapon to undermine the trade agreement between the european union and mercosur. in the current world economic and political order, to let a strategic rapprochement between europe and a large part of latin america slip away because of sectoral calculations, would also be a great scandal, a weak view of an operation called 'weak meat'.
the brazilian federal police recently uncovered a massive fraud scheme involving the sale of adulterated meat involving the country's leading brands. 29 companies were investigated, including the two giant jbs, friboi, seara and big frango brands, and brf, owner of sadia and perdigão. the list of irregularities investigated included the repackaging of products at the end of their shelf life, the injection of water to increase the weight of the goods and the use of ascorbic acid and sorbic acid to mask signs of meat deterioration. both acids are carcinogenic when used in high doses. the commission has also been informed that the commission has not yet adopted a new decision on the application of the union state aid rules to the aid scheme for the coal and steel sector. it is essential that the european commission takes stock of this scandal coming from what is today the world's largest exporter of meat and the largest supplier of beef to the european union and that it takes measures to protect consumers and to avoid any doubts about the quality of meat traded in the european area. it is also imperative that this issue has consequences for the current negotiations with mercosur.
madam president, commissioner, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. this regulation is important, but it does not meet one of the main ambitions of the european small-scale fisheries sector in terms of definitions. it does not define what is artisanal fishing. it seems to me that the role of the european union in this case will be to lay down general rules so that this definition can be established regionally. small-scale fishing is dependent on the region in which it is carried out. i know that relinquishing the power of standardisation is a difficult step for the european commission, but also for the council and, to some extent, for parliament, which dreams of harmonizing legal procedures at the level of an entire continent. but just as article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union enshrines regional specificities, i suggest that the commission should propose legislation giving the regions of europe the capacity to define their artisanal and traditional fisheries.
madam president, venezuela has been without a national assembly for three days after the supreme court decided to usurp its powers and deprive the deputies of their immunity. this coup d'état was aborted by the judges of the supreme court who, by the strong protest in the streets, realized the seriousness of their act. it was, however, just another episode illustrating the antidemocratic and totalitarian nature of the venezuelan government, which began by disrespecting the 2015 election result, went through the delaying maneuvers of the national electoral council to make the recall referendum unviable, through president maduro's interference in the judicial system and even through the irrational decision to expropriate the bakeries, most of which are owned by portuguese emigrants. the situation in venezuela is very serious. in venezuela, people are dying of hunger, people are dying of diseases that nowhere else in the world are deadly. in venezuela, citizens are treated like animals at the mercy of the whims of the maduro regime. the humanitarian crisis in venezuela has reached such serious proportions that we europeans did not imagine it could happen in the 21st century and in a country that was a world reference for progress and democracy. ladies and gentlemen, help is urgently needed for the suffering people of venezuela. the venezuelans expect us europeans and democrats to act in their favour. i call on this house to make every political and diplomatic effort to open up genuine humanitarian corridors to venezuela.
how could it be that an american agency was the first to discover the manipulation of a european trademark without any of the national agencies having noticed it first? has there been a cover-up of these manipulative practices by the national authorities or even the european commission? what lessons can we learn to avoid repeating the same mistakes in the future? these are the questions which have justified this committee of inquiry. their work has made clear the european commission's lack of political will to investigate the facts after the first signs had become apparent. it also highlighted the member states' lethargy in evaluating an inadequate emissions verification system. the work done has been worthwhile, however, for what it has revealed and for the changes it will bring about in the future. a new type-approval system and new limits for vehicle emissions are now a top priority for the european commission and the member states. the focus on electric mobility is essential. the creation of a supervisory agency is also necessary. this will make the european automotive sector more competitive, reliable and environmentally friendly. emis has contributed to this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, are there any problems with the type approval and inspection of vehicles? yes, there is. have significant deficiencies been identified in the national market surveillance and type approval control systems in place? yes, they were. has the volkswagen case shaken the public's confidence in this system? yeah, it did. if we agree with these three statements, we must be consistent and review and deepen the type-approval system in the immediate response to the anomalies revealed. we must prevent a repeat of the breaches. and we have seen that leaving this control in the hands of the member states alone has not worked. this review ensures, and i welcome it, a double surveillance by the european commission, which is given new powers. the committee on the internal market and its rapporteur, mr dalton, also wish you well. we have achieved a good result by improving the commission's proposal. this is a good example of how consumer protection must be at the heart of the union's priorities. we must require car manufacturers operating in the union to test their vehicles before they are placed on the market and throughout their life cycle. we will only be able to restore citizens' and the market's confidence in this sector with a robust, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework that ensures a high level of safety and protection of health, the environment and consumers. this also requires rapid, appropriate and coordinated corrective action.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is an appropriate response to the defence of the internal market and consumer rights, allowing vehicles, including those already in circulation, to meet safety and environmental requirements. the unprecedented scandal over the manipulation of car emissions tests has revealed flaws in the approval system for new cars. we can't fool ourselves. this has undermined citizens' confidence in the european institutions and the automotive industry. after more than a year of intensive work, we have now reached the moment to discuss and vote on this important report so that this scandal does not happen again. the rationalization and strengthening of the competences on car emissions, greater european supervision of the competent national authorities, the creation of vehicle approval procedures and tests, the existence of tighter market controls and a strict exchange of information between the european union and the member states, and a system of dissuasive sanctions, will allow more effective results in the defence of consumer rights. the success of the implementation and enforcement of car emissions legislation depends on the active involvement of the european institutions, economic operators and, in particular, the automotive industry and citizens.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because it is time for the european union to promote an action plan against deforestation and forest degradation. public disasters occur all over the world due to heavy rainfall and landslides, affecting the poorest and most vulnerable, and the cause is always the same: the intensive destruction of forest habitats through constant deforestation for agricultural exploitation and the construction of infrastructure such as dams or dams. despite the european union's commitments to reduce gross tropical deforestation by 50% by 2020, we are far from that goal. between 1990 and 2008, europe imported and consumed some nine million hectares of deforested land, making it the third largest market for palm oil. palm oil is increasingly being used as biofuel and a substantial part of its production is not respecting human rights, using child labour. the european union must therefore assume its responsibilities and fulfil its international commitments. the adoption of this report gives the european union an objective opportunity to take urgent measures and actions to ensure that all palm oil consumed in europe is sustainable by 2020.
mr president, mr dijsselbloem's offensive language proves that he is not fit to be president of the eurogroup and that it makes no difference to mr schäuble's positions. no to this wrong narrative about the reasons for the eurozone crisis and no to these wrong solutions. there are national responsibilities, but above all there are great responsibilities in the way the european union has conducted its response to the crisis in the euro area and has responded to the dramatic situation in greece. let us look at the major differences between the programme that is being tried in greece and the alternative solution that portugal, led by the socialist government, has been able to put into practice. the first big difference: respecting the social rights of workers, their wages, and using this as a lever to increase domestic demand, while promoting exports; second: ensuring that reforms affect not only the labour market but, above all, education, innovation, better services provided to the population; third: achieving investment at the top of the priorities by leveraging a future for the country towards a new energy and digital transition; and fourth, not subordinating growth to fiscal consolidation, on the contrary, more growth facilitates the process of fiscal consolidation. but above all, to ensure that the country is not limited to a subordinate position in the european discussion, but takes on the role of a full partner in the reform of the euro area, which must be carried out so that we can restore the principle of convergence. this requires completing the banking union, this requires building fiscal capacity and only then will not only the euro area have a future, but the european union will have the future it deserves.
mr president, this debate sums up in a particular way the worst of this european union. an adjustment programme which has produced disastrous results from the economic, social and public accounts point of view. yes, we are talking about the case of greece, which is not exactly a normal case, it is more obscene than normal. the ultimatum to the greek people was probably the lowest and most degrading point in the history of european integration. but as if authoritarianism were not enough, the european commission decided to go further and broke the commitment it had made to the greek government to restructure the greek debt. the agreements of the european commission are therefore not only agreements and documents of bad policy but also documents of bad faith. but finally, this debate shows the ridiculousness of what we have come to: mr moscovici and mr borg have come here to replace mr dijsselbloem who, in a fit of cowardice, refused to answer to the representatives of the citizens and look at you, you have the commission and the council replacing a group which does not even formally exist, namely the eurogroup. the european parliament has already called for mr dijsselbloem's resignation, and mr dijsselbloem is out on the streets. what are the commission and the council waiting for to do the same?
mr president, the european union will only overcome the challenges it faces if it acts in a united, coordinated and united manner. we must all pull in the same direction and therefore the manichean statements of the president of the eurogroup, who is also a socialist, mr dijsselbloem, are unacceptable. it's not that there are the pure on one side and the sinners on the other, the good on the other, the bad on the other, the north on the one side, the south on the other, the net taxpayers on the one side, the net beneficiaries on the other. we are all citizens of the european union and what we have are victims and victims of the irresponsibility of the governments that drive countries to bankruptcy, as happened in my country in 2011, and representatives of institutions like the president of the eurogroup who do not understand the enormous sacrifices made by the people who have had adjustment programs. we need to strengthen the funds, the programmes financed by the european union budget, which have helped social cohesion, territorial cohesion and economic cohesion. a european stability mechanism to help member states in difficulty is another proof of solidarity. but we must strengthen the euro area and complete, for example, the banking union. we all know that the budget of the european union is small and amounts to less than 1% of gdp and that competences, for example in the area of health, education, employment, justice and taxation, are national, but this does not prevent us from strengthening the budget of the european union to promote growth, to promote employment and to have the necessary investment in the european union.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i will answer with another question: does the speaker asking me the question know what the cost to greece of leaving the eurozone is? and if i knew the cost, i'm sure i'd rephrase the question. there are national competences and national competences and this responsibility should be borne by the member state, in this particular case by greece. but the european union also has the obligation of solidarity, which of course requires in return the responsibility that each member state must have, and it is in this ensemble, in this united way, in this solidarity and concerted way that we can solve the challenges, help greece and other member states so that the citizens of the european union all feel like true citizens and have all the same equal opportunities in this space.
the outsourcing of responsibilities and borders is a recipe for disaster, for discrediting the european union and for more insecurity inside and outside it. the commission and the council refer to security. but what security when member states refuse to open legal and safe pathways for immigrant refugees through humanitarian visas or family reunification and thus feed the business of trafficking networks delivering desperate people to death in the mediterranean and the organised crime behind these networks, including terrorist crime? the commission and the council cite readmission agreements as an example of cooperation with strategic partners. but what is the strategy for a libya which the european union has allowed to be undermined by its current inability to govern? what is the strategy of turning us into hostages of erdogan in the immoral and illegal business? or in funding governments that manufacture refugees for the oppression and misery they impose on their people, like the ethiopian government? as my colleagues valenciano and díaz de mera point out, there is a real need for external action with a strategic vision consistent with european values and principles, leading by example and respecting human rights, and telling our citizens that refugees and immigrants help to combat the demographic decline in our societies. only then will we be able to defend the security of europeans.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would also like to greet the presidency of the council, the commissioner and all my colleagues. the multiannual financial framework must respond to new challenges, needs, urgencies and unforeseen events. so, at a good time - and i pay tribute to all those who were involved in this negotiation - we in parliament fought through the last negotiations on the financial framework and achieved more flexibility in the budget of the european union and the possibility of having a revision of the multiannual financial framework. it was worth it, as the council has now recognised, albeit belatedly. this year, for the first time in history, we have the possibility to approve the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. we have an obligation to increase employment, especially youth employment, to combat terrorism, to support those who need it most. to this end we have reinforced the initial amounts with some eur 5 billion - new money that was not foreseen. the youth employment initiative takes the biggest share with €1.2 billion. the research and innovation programme 'horizon 2020', the cosme programme for smes, the 'connecting europe' mechanism, erasmus+ are other programmes that have been strengthened, albeit with reallocation. we will thus have more resources to meet the challenges of the present and we will also increase the amounts earmarked for it to deal with the problems of migration. this revision introduces flexibility, makes it possible to finance additional needs, to strengthen employment and to promote solidarity. conclusion: it is a good review and all those who agree with these objectives should support it and the amounts are not for the european parliament, the amounts are for the european union, the institutions, the member states to face the challenges i have mentioned. it was also important to remove the constraints, the limitations, the overall commitment margin, to increase the overall payment margin, to increase the reserve for emergencies and a flexibility instrument. i am talking about special instruments and here i am turning to the council and saying that they should also have the right interpretation - and the right interpretation is that these special instruments, as the name implies, are special - and that means that they are above the limits, outside the limits of the multiannual financial framework. i am sorry that the council has once again tried to provoke and influence parliament. as is abundantly clear, a political declaration does not take away any of our prerogatives, much less those which are enshrined in the treaties and which are binding in terms of respect for our powers, the powers in the annual budgetary procedure, and we will maintain them. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking the commission for its bold proposal and in particular commissioner georgieva and the two presidencies for the success we have finally achieved, even though we are aware of the difficulties, the delays and the need for unanimity in this matter.
we are discussing today the revision of the multiannual financial framework. a short financial framework, less and less geared to cohesion and strengthening the fields of foreign policy, which we voted against at the time. the budgetary execution of the first half of the mandate has finally demonstrated the correctness of our position. the divergences between countries and regions are increasing - with peripheral countries trapped in austerity with low levels of investment and rising indebtedness - and the european union's own indebtedness is also increasing, bringing back the specter of cyclically recurring default. this revision, instead of addressing this reality by increasing cohesion funds, ends up by accentuating the problems we have denounced by mobilising, above all, the instruments of flexibility for the security and citizenship and foreign policy lines, to the detriment of measures that promote job creation. we are thus still dealing with a budget which fails to respond to the real problems of the european union by giving priority to the military and security aspects.
mr president, once again we are legislating against the backdrop of the financial crisis and the recognised role that the monetary funds have had and can continue to have in multiplying risk and losses, putting the whole financial system at risk. we all remember the closure of several monetary funds in recent decades. we all know that these funds represent one of the visible faces of the so-called 'shadow bank'. history has taught us that speculation is in the genome of finance. this proposal is intended to mislead the public and workers into thinking that it is possible to regulate this activity by creating new categories of funds, so-called low volatility funds, by imposing rules on diversification or even choices between investment portfolios. we are therefore faced with a complex and minimalist set of rules which do not address the real problems of the financial system and which once again demonstrate who is in charge in the european union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the prospectus is a step towards building a so-called 'capital markets union'. underlying this proposal is this vision of our smes, financed through the capital market, promoting the public issue of equity securities to be traded on the stock exchange. this view, taken from the textbooks of financial economics, is unfortunately not in keeping with our economic and social reality. we do not think that micro-enterprises - the backbone of our economy - will be able to take advantage of this type of financing. regardless of the doubts that remain about this proposal in terms of exemptions, secondary emissions or the lack of sanctioning provisions to enforce compliance, we remain deeply disagree ing with the priorities of this european union. what companies need is not a single capital market. what they need are sound banks, preferably public ones, which are committed to development strategies and job creation and, for the time being, to a policy of raising wages which increases the purchasing power of households and actually gives confidence to businesses and the economy.
madam president, i would like to put forward our position and show it with three quotes from shakespeare, a great british and european writer. first, our position, our attitude as committed pro-europeans, is very well described in hamlet when horatio describes the expression of the father of hamlet: ‘a countenance more in sorrow than in anger’ – that will be our attitude in our negotiation. next, i would like to give a piece of advice to our british colleagues with another quote, because you should be very aware of what your bard shakespeare has said: ‘we know what we are, but know not what we may be’. finally, i would like to answer mr farage with a quote from shakespeare that is probably a fake quote, which is very, very appropriate to someone that is a post-truth politician: ‘love me or hate me, both are in my favour. if you love me, i'll always be in your heart. if you hate me, i'll always be in your mind’.
madam president, when many expected brexit to be the beginning of the end of the european project, the broad cross-party political consensus in support of the resolution we are going to adopt today on the brexit negotiations is in itself a very important sign of unity and hope. it is also important that parliament has set a clear priority to ensure that the rights of european citizens residing in the united kingdom and british citizens residing in the european union are respected on a reciprocal basis. and it is not respecting the rights of citizens, subjecting them, as is the case in the united kingdom today, to 85 pages of bureaucratic red tape in order to obtain their right to residence permits. the freedom of movement is fully binding on the united kingdom until the day of its withdrawal and even afterwards as long as a transitional regime for access to the single market is in force. this parliament will not give up on the defence of the rights of european citizens.
in writing. once again, the eu institutions are not compatible with democracy and the sovereign decisions of the people. it's not today. the position of pressure, threat and blackmail on the united kingdom following the sovereign expression of the popular will to leave the eu is unacceptable and reveals the intentions guiding the eu institutions in this process. among these intentions - which we vehemently denounce and combat - is the attempt to carry out an operation to whitewash the eu's policies and their consequences, and from there to force a breakthrough in the deepening of european capitalist integration. the negotiating process which is now beginning must be fair and balanced, based on the fundamental idea of respect for the sovereign decision of the united kingdom. the defence and protection of the rights of both british citizens residing in eu member states and eu member state citizens residing in the uk should be a priority in these negotiations. rights such as: right of residence, right to equal treatment and non-discrimination, right of access to public services and social security, right to family reunification, international recognition of university diplomas and training. the positive provisions on the free movement of persons must be protected.
in writing. for this parliament there are very clear and necessary conditions for the approval in 2019 of a possible agreement between the eu and the uk, and it is to this excellent resolution that we will return to analyse, point by point, whether they are fulfilled. highlight three: - it cannot be the citizens - european or british - who pay the bill. in particular, both sides need to have the interests and rights of european citizens living in the uk and vice versa at the centre of their concerns. - the eu can never allow the uk to become a tax haven and the fight against tax fraud and evasion will be at the forefront of any trade agreement that is drawn up. - i know . in all forms of cooperation that may exist between the eu and the uk in areas that favour the interests of both parties - cooperation to which this parliament and the europe of 27 remain open - the compass will be, as in any union's external action policy, our values and principles, particularly with regard to respect for international obligations to protect refugees and migrants, and human rights in general.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the subject of this debate is too broad. hate speech, hate speach, is not the same as populism. fake news is not necessarily hate speech. i'm afraid we're mixing up two different realities. but i want to address each of them. first, we cannot tolerate hate speech. not in this house, not in any public forum, and that includes social media, too. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. all of them. it's not just about removing hate speech that comes up in the public square, but it's about preventing it from coming up in the first place. it is important to educate for tolerance, for respect for others and for difference. second, we can't be afraid to look at fake news, also as a propaganda weapon with geopolitical implications. and to do so, the union must be strong and have robust means to tackle what are often deliberate disinformation campaigns. thirdly, populism is an extraordinarily complex phenomenon, which is growing every day. we must fight it, but also understand its origin. reducing populism to hate speech and fake news can also be populism. combating these phenomena requires an effective, robust and comprehensive response from the union. the danger they pose to democracy and freedom is too grave. that is why it is necessary for politicians and citizens to avoid any kind of cowardice or complacency.
madam president, hatred, racism and the populisms that foment them are yet another unfortunate corollary of the neoliberal and authoritarian policies that have increased our deficit in democracy, social justice and values, polarizing our societies, digging divisions, marginalizing young people, particularly second generation youth, raised in ghettos and segregation. they fed fears and insecurities that were exploited by the ukip, the national front, fidesh and the complaining people to further their poisonous agendas. european leaders are complicit, without policies for employment, for equality of justice and democratic control. where are the council and the commission on the protection of immigrant refugees? and in this age of fake news, online trolls and trump tweets, they do nothing to prevent a strategic instrument like euronews from being, in fact, funded and controlled by moscow and an egyptian billionaire without ensuring the quality and editorial exemption required of a news channel associated with the european union. are you not aware of that, commissioner ansip?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, in october 2015, when we discussed the european single market for electronic communications here, we recalled the warnings made by several national regulators that, in view of the dominant tourist flows in europe, the southern countries would be harmed by the end of roaming charges in the european union. we warned then that there was still no convincing response to these warnings. a year and a half later, we're still doing it. without a convincing answer, without the certainty that consumers in the southern countries will not pay the costs of the end of roaming in the european union in their domestic tariffs. we have intervened in this process with a clear objective: to make it possible to end retail roaming surcharges, i.e. to end roaming charges for consumers in the european union, but at the same time eliminating the risk that costs arising from roaming, in particular costs arising from the increase in seasonal pressure on national networks, are reflected in national domestic charges. in our view there were and are more effective ways of ensuring this than the provisions which have been adopted. but it was the choice of the commission and the rapporteur not to take them into account in this regulation. the logic of liberalization and the miraculous free competition underlying the single market in communications, in this as in other sectors, i conclude, serves the interests of large economic groups and monopolistic concentration on a european scale. it serves neither the interests of consumers nor the national interest.
madam president, as from 15 june, european citizens will be able to access data, voice and text without paying roaming charges, provided that their consumption is in line with normal standards. they will thus be able to access telecommunications services from anywhere in the european union as if they were at home, and this is an excellent measure. but, commissioner, it must be a measure applied fairly and effectively, and for that there are two conditions. first, national operators, on the basis of the rule allowing for the recovery of losses proven as a result of the measure, cannot allow operators to impose on non-traveling citizens costs resulting from the response to the demand of displaced citizens and, second, european incentive schemes for investment in digital networks must give priority to territories that will have to increase their capacity to respond to seasonal demand. there are instruments and procedures in this report, which i myself have endorsed, to ensure that both these conditions are met. it is essential to ensure that this is an effective and fair measure.
mr president, commissioner, at the last plenary session i made a speech in this house about the constant aggression against ukraine and its citizens by its russian neighbours. i also had the opportunity here to warn of the russian expansionist threat in ukraine, which was then revealed by the murder in ukraine of the critic of the putin regime, denis voronenkov. denis voronenkov was nothing more, nothing less than one of the main witnesses to the russian aggression against ukraine. i also had the opportunity to call for the immediate entry into force of visa liberalization for the ukrainian citizens who three years ago in maidan square fought for ukraine to become more european. tomorrow we shall finally vote in this house on an instrument which will allow ukrainian citizens to move more easily, or rather, to move freely within the european union. i hope that tomorrow, on behalf of the thousands of ukrainians who have chosen my country, portugal, as their home, i will be able to congratulate my colleagues in this house on the implementation of this important strategic instrument for a more prosperous, secure and stable neighbourhood.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to say that on 29 march the supreme court of justice of venezuela withdrew the powers of the national assembly and assumed its functions, thus calling into question the principle of the separation of powers and seriously offending the main democratic principles. days later, amidst huge international pressure, the supreme court backed down, trying to convince venezuelans that it wasn't all some kind of misunderstanding. moreover, nicolás maduro cynically tried to appear as a virtuous arbiter who would have resolved the matter expeditiously and effectively. but the truth is different. the truth is that the autocratic regime never accepted the result of the december 2015 elections. we must not forget that on january 11, 2016, the supreme court of justice - which the regime manipulates as it sees fit - ruled that the national assembly was in contempt, and therefore all acts emanating from it were null and void. and even then, the same court threatened to invoke the constitution and replace parliament. what happened was not, therefore, a mere delirium. but something will be changing in venezuela. nicolás maduro's turnaround reveals that his strategy of antagonizing the opposition has apparently reached its limit. maduro's turnaround shows that there is a red line after all. this red line has been drawn - or is beginning to be drawn, we believe - within bureaucracy itself. this was done openly by the venezuelan attorney general, luisa ortega díaz, who spoke of a breakdown of the constitutional order, but also invisibly, apparently, by some military hierarchies. that's a positive number. it means that there are segments in the official sphere of influence which do not fully adhere to the strategy followed so far and which, despite everything, are not willing to abdicate some basic constitutional principles. the climate of political polarization that is currently being experienced in venezuela has reached such a point that it can only be clarified through elections. in the meantime, the economic, social and humanitarian crisis in venezuela requires the promotion of a dialogue between the executive and the legislature. we believe that this is the way to go. but in the meantime we must once again make a very strong and very clear call for the release of the political prisoners who are in prison in venezuela and for the regional elections which should have been held by now to be called.
mr president, in the age of alternative facts, these are the real facts that the majority of this parliament are trying to hide. between 1999 and 2006, unemployment in venezuela fell by more than ten percentage points. at the end of 2015, venezuela had a lower unemployment rate than the european union or canada. poverty and extreme poverty levels have fallen significantly and more sharply than the latin american average. the number of families with basic needs that are not met has decreased significantly. venezuela has moved up several places in the united nations human development index. indicators of social inequality have decreased. according to fao, venezuela has reduced child malnutrition and is now a hunger-free country. enrollment in higher education has more than tripled. this is the reality that makes some people feel anger and hatred towards venezuela and that makes them unreservedly and shamelessly support the boycott, violence and economic, social and political destabilization.
mr president, venezuela, a sister country which hosts more than a million portuguese and portuguese descendants, is experiencing a tragedy. there is no medicine, no food, no bread, no light and no water, no respect. anyone who opposes is beaten and jailed for a crime of opinion. crime is out of control. caracas is already the most dangerous city in the world. with maduro, christmas is on november 1st. he believes that chavez appears to him in the form of a tiny bird and has decided that in the civil service one only works two days a week. the supreme court decision was just one more step in a hallucinatory journey of a drifting regime. one hundred years after the bolshevik revolution, maduro shows the world that every time marxism-leninism is in power, national resources are turned into misery and people are impoverished. the extreme left here is on the side of dictatorial drift rather than defending democracy. we are not! strength and hope for venezuelan democrats. no se callen, not ever! believe in your fight because your fight is fair. a hug from the portuguese democrats.
mr president, venezuela is going through a delicate economic situation with political, social and security repercussions which cannot leave us indifferent. the portuguese community, the portuguese descendants, my fellow madeiran citizens, send me heartbreaking reports of a situation of insecurity, extreme poverty and loss of business activity affecting portuguese and venezuelans. i therefore express my full solidarity with the venezuelan people, given that in your country democracy is fully respected in a veiled fight against crime, unemployment and poverty. i repeat in this message my appeal to the european union and to national governments for active support, with measures to alleviate this state of social and economic emergency and to ensure that all the support that is available reaches all those in need in venezuela. none of us can remain indifferent, or we will see democracy and the principle of respect for and dignity of the human person fall.
the fact that what is happening in venezuela has anything to do with socialism is a false flag. it's the totalitarianism, stupidity and narco-corruption of president maduro's regime, which looks very green but is, in fact, rotten. the people of venezuela are paying the cost in their hard daily lives. given the strong ties between the people of venezuela and european peoples - spain and portugal in particular - it is unbelievable that the european union and this parliament should not be more involved in the release of political prisoners and in the search for a peaceful, negotiated and democratic solution to the dangerous impasse into which sectarianism and blindness have driven that resource-rich country, which is now living in misery and perhaps on the brink of civil war. venezuela doesn't need a coup like the one that was attempted days ago. it does urgently need free and fair elections under international supervision.
mr president, commissioner, this was meant for mr joão ferreira, but he is not here. i have just received from venezuela the following message which i will read to you: venezuela, today, needs more than the world. people starving, eating from the garbage. cops rob you, thieves kill you every day. people fight over a single ration of flour a week; sometimes they have nothing to eat and have to eat potatoes boiled in water. this is another kind of inhuman situation that is experienced in venezuela and that only he who lives here understands it to perfection. the hard reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the citizens of venezuela - where there are about one and a half million portuguese and portuguese-descendant people - are oppressed. the judiciary and the electoral power remain subject to the interests of the executive. the national assembly remains suffocated by sentences that usurp its functions and citizens are deprived of the rights guaranteed by the constitution, as in the case of the recall referendum, or even of the mandates for which they were legitimately elected, as is well illustrated by the situation of my friend antónio ladesma, who has been imprisoned for two years. in fact, what we have in venezuela is a whole people of political prisoners. the defence of democracy without resort to euphemisms is an obligation of all democrats.
madam president, as we stressed in the resolution on big data and fundamental rights that i drafted and which was adopted by this parliament last month, in this digital age it is of the utmost importance to strengthen citizens' confidence in the use of new communication technologies and to ensure the security of personal data collected online and by all types of electronic devices. these principles necessarily apply to transatlantic data transfers to ensure legal certainty for businesses and citizens, in a legal framework, robust in equivalent data protection regimes and less vulnerable to criminal and misuse. this european parliament resolution recognises that the eu-us privacy shield contains significant improvements in terms of clarity of rules compared to the old safe harbour regime as a result of the european commission's efforts to address the shortcomings identified by the court of justice, the article 29 working party and the european parliament, among others. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. and to name just a few, such as the absence of specific rules on automated decision-making and the application of the shield principles to subcontractors. the absence of a general right of citizens to object, the need for guarantees on the independence and powers of the mediation mechanism and the absence of guarantees on the non-indiscriminate mass collection of personal data prohibited by the european charter of fundamental rights. all these concerns may lead to a challenge to this scheme before the courts. furthermore, the political situation in the united states today is clearly different. we cannot ignore, commissioner, the impact of the election of donald trump on the implementation of the agreement and the guarantees given by the obama administration. trump has already shown complete disregard for agreements made by the previous administration. just this week, the president signed into law a law that gives internet companies in the united states the freedom to sell their customers' data, such as browsing history and other private information, to the advertising market without the consent of the people concerned, which demonstrates the new administration's disregard for the minimum safeguards for privacy and personal data protection that existed before. the commission has also been asked to provide additional information on the implementation of the privacy shield and to provide a report on the implementation of the privacy shield. (the president cut the speaker off)
answer the question by raising the blue card. of course, the public authorities cannot eliminate this form of crime completely, but we can do much to reduce this illegal form of crime. it would be great if the commission could come up with concrete proposals and if we could discuss in this plenary the possibilities for european administration to combat money laundering not only from, say, bodies of the european union, citizens of the european union, but mainly from politicians and, say, officials who serve external regimes such as the regime in russia. so it would be good if we discussed this as a separate proposal, so it doesn't fall apart. today we're talking about condemning the russian regime, but let's talk about the concrete steps we're taking against money laundering.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of march, alexei navalny - who runs the foundation for the fight against corruption - had the courage to denounce, once again, the corruption of the russian elite and of businessmen close to the kremlin, by means of a video. his film sparked the biggest protests since putin returned to the presidency in 2012 and brought thousands of people onto the streets of moscow and more than 80 other cities across the country. following these demonstrations, around 800 people were arrested in the capital alone, including alexei navalny himself. as vice-president mogherini herself has stated, these detentions are a clear violation of the rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly guaranteed by the russian constitution and therefore these detained protesters must be released immediately and unconditionally. i would like to conclude by saying that these protests have shown the world that, although vladimir putin has ruled russia for 17 years without giving any opposition a chance, there is now a younger generation at the forefront of the opposition who, having never known another leader in their life, are ready to fight for a more transparent and democratic russia.
member of the commission. – mr president, the belarus debate in the european union continues to be driven by a policy of critical engagement. the most recent events in the lead-up to freedom day in belarus on 25 march confirmed the need to maintain a critical approach in our bilateral relations. in reaction, we issued a statement pointing out that, despite the international community’s calls for restraint, the response by the security services, including preventive arrests beforehand and the detention of a large number of peaceful protesters on 25 march, itself were indiscriminate and inappropriate. we further noted that such limitations to the freedom of expression and assembly are in contradiction with belarus’ stated policy of democratisation, as well as its international commitments. we called for the immediate release of all recently detained peaceful citizens. belarus has taken a number of positive steps in recent years. these include the pro-active participation of belarus in the eastern partnership and in the interim phase on modernisation issues; the resumption of the eu-belarus human rights dialogue; the start of negotiations on visa facilitation, readmission agreements and a mobility partnership; the active pursuit of cooperation in the harmonisation of digital markets; and the signature of a cooperation agreement on an early warning mechanism in the energy sector. belarus has also played an increasingly constructive role in the region, notably with regard to the conflict in eastern ukraine. after careful consideration, and with the support of member states, including the local heads of mission in minsk, and following the discussion in the political and security committee, it was decided to proceed with an eu-belarus coordination group meeting on 3 and 4 april, understanding that this was an opportunity to pass strong and unambiguous messages to belarussian interlocutors at an appropriate level. a specific session of the meeting was dedicated to human rights and political freedoms. this is exactly what we mean by critical engagement. formats, such as the coordination group and the annual human rights dialogue, allow us to reiterate our commitment to a stable, democratic and prosperous future for belarus for the benefit of its people. a range of subjects are of particularly importance to civil society were discussed at the meeting, including mobility, people-to-people contacts, trade, education and social security. the european union also raised issues related to the registration of political parties, as well as the reinstatement of the civil and political rights of former political prisoners. in addition, separate meetings took place with belarussian human rights defenders, civil society representatives and members of political opposition movements. the european union will also raise these issues at the next human rights dialogue, which is scheduled to take place before summer. as stated in the council conclusions of 15 february 2016, the european union is open to the further development of eu-belarus relations and to enhancing political relations and sectoral cooperation in the appropriate context. at the same time, tangible steps taken by belarus to respect universal fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and human rights will remain key for the shaping of the eu’s future policy towards belarus. we take a note of today’s resolution on belarus and share the concerns expressed. we will continue to closely observe belarus’ response, with regard to freedom of speech, assembly and association, as we take our policy forward.
in writing. other on 25 march, in minsk, belarusian riot police violently suppressed the opposition's annual march, beating people, preventing journalists from doing their work and arresting about 700 protesters. the march was aimed at protesting against the law against social parasites which created a special tax of 220 euros for those who work less than six months during the year and contribute less to the financing of the state. the promoters of this peaceful march wanted it to coincide with freedom day, the unofficial date of the celebration of the first belarusian people's republic in 1918. but 'freedom' is not a word for president lukashenko, who has ruled with an iron fist since 1994, with a long record of repression of peaceful demonstrations, arrests for political reasons and the shameful title of being the only country in europe still applying the death penalty! on the same day, we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome and reaffirmed our commitment to the values of our founding fathers. it is in the name of these values that we need to review the framework of our relationship with belarus and make it conditional on respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
mr president, the government of bangladesh has committed itself to concrete targets to combat child marriage, a scourge that leaves terrible emotional and physical consequences, destroys normal personality development and brings with it an increased risk of poverty, illiteracy and sexual and physical violence. bangladesh has made some progress in this area, although it remains the country with the highest rate of human rights violations in the world. however, the recently passed law restricting child marriage, instead of being a decisive step to combat this tragedy, is a perverse law that introduces exceptions in special cases or in the interest of the adolescent, without clarifying the criteria that govern these classifications and without establishing a minimum age for the marriages in question. bangladesh is a beneficiary of the un population fund and unicef global programme to accelerate the fight against child marriage, which is co-funded by the european union. the european union must therefore make efforts to put pressure on the bangladeshi authorities to review the law restricting child marriage, otherwise we will see a setback in the fight against this practice, which is the cause of so much suffering.
in writing. other on 25 april 1974, after 48 years of dictatorship, portugal experienced the first hours of an expected freedom. like so many other countries in the european space, that was a much-awaited freedom. portugal became a member of the eec in 1986 mainly to firmly and irreversibly anchor the democratic process begun in 1974. years later, it was hungary's turn to regain its freedom and, in 2004, to join the european union, subscribing to its fundamental principles. it is therefore intolerable and alarming that we have been witnessing for years the erosion of democracy and the rule of law in the european union, starting in budapest under the leadership of viktor orbán, with the inexplicable political protection of the european people's party and the complacency of the commission and the council. prime minister viktor orbán's governmental track, fomenting xenophobia and attacking refugees miserably, and his recent speeches advocating what he calls 'illiberal democracy', call into question fundamental principles of the european union. i therefore support the infringement procedure initiated by the european commission in response to the hungarian government's attempt to close the central european university and interfere with its academic independence. such an initiative is only to be blamed for coming too late, too late.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, dear commissioner, this is indeed an important day for the european union because we now have a move towards a stronger social dimension. the european parliament will certainly be ready to co-sign a proclamation on this european pillar of social rights for all european citizens, because for the european parliament we cannot have first-class citizens or second-class citizens. but we are willing to move in this direction and that is why we call on all governments also to co-sign such a proclamation and such a commitment. but what really matters is the commitment to deliver on better social standards for our century. we need to make sure that we are really meeting the new conditions of labour markets and welfare systems, to fit them for the future. our citizens are waiting for this. that is why the pillar must deliver on best conditions first of all to provide a good future for children in europe. we cannot have children in poverty. that is why we need to have a youth guarantee delivering more and better jobs for the best generation we have in europe. that is why we need to have these new leave schemes, paid schemes, for both men and women to take care of their children and their relatives, and most of all, that is why we need to make sure that all people in employment, whatever their kind of job, they have a clear set of working conditions and they have access to social protection. this is really to prepare our welfare systems for the future. but in order to deliver this, we need to have real means in order to have a credible social pillar, and real means implies that even of course social partners should be consulted. the european commission should also be ready to table labour and social law when this is needed. we need european action to create these common standards.secondly, we need to make sure that the european semester will bring about real upward economic and social conversions by monitoring standards, economic and social policies. and finally, we need to have the financial instruments to underpin all this convergence. i conclude by saying the european parliament is ready to move in this direction and we claim that we should have a roadmap to monitor delivery of all these instruments, we need to make the pillar something that works for all european citizens.
mr president, the proposals you have brought to us today are a perfect example of how the firmness with which you defend sanctions and political impositions on sovereign countries is always lacking when it comes to proposals which serve the interests of the workers and the people. the unrelenting truth that reality will demonstrate is that the strategies presented, which are supposedly of a social nature, are nothing but instruments for levelling the rights of workers and peoples below the benchmark. in fact, the portfolio proposals in the field of maternity are an example of this. they throw out the proposals of this parliament for extending the periods of leave and paying for leave without loss of pay, they run away like the devil from any reference to public policies or the provision of free services. it is your political choices that fuel inequalities between men and women and social inequalities, as well as ensuring that the mechanisms of exploitation and impoverishment of workers and peoples are perpetuated.
replying in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. generations of poor people are being created at the expense of the policies that the european commission, the european union and the majority of this house have been adopting, which in recent years have increased by tens of millions the number of people who are now living in poverty and social exclusion. it is the policies of the european union, the macroeconomic policies, which prevent progressive development policies in the member states and social development policy, which attack public services and the network of public services that defends, for example, maternity, which destroy public services and which lead to the privatisation of these services. these are the policies that are behind the impoverishment as well.
the manifestations of social concern on the part of the defenders of european capitalist integration can be poignant. but they never question the policies that have brought us devastation and social backwardness. the eu's social makeup reaches its highest point with the so-called 'social pillar'. the building that was so anti-social and anti-democratic - with pillars such as the stability pact, the european semester, the budget treaty, economic governance, sanctions, etc. - would eventually become 'social' thanks to the miraculous pillar. i'd almost laugh if it wasn't so serious. the pillar is nothing but the siren call of those who, faced with the insurmountable contradictions of an exhausted and unanswerable integration of the problems of the peoples (which, moreover, has caused and aggravated them), are crying out for more of the same. as far as the substance of the matter is concerned, the pillar does not include the raising of wages and salaries, the defence of collective bargaining or universal and free public services. the aim is to harmonize labour and social legislation (i.e. to level it down) in order to facilitate the movement of cheap labour within the single market. it is a question of legitimising precariousness and the 'social' user-payer principle in access to public services.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, today we are again stressing the importance of the blue economy, of maritime affairs, but more specifically the importance of fisheries for the economic and social development of the outermost regions. we clearly need the commitment of all, political actors, regional and local authorities, to define the future common fisheries policy. today we are stressing the need for a european financial instrument for fisheries, just as in agriculture. we are fighting for a more united union, for a more social europe, for a europe which respects and fulfils its treaties. we shall have it if we do not fail to take action against the outermost fishermen, who are also european citizens. support for the renewal of outermost fishing vessels is without prejudice to the common fisheries policy and the emff. these are vessels with specific characteristics and constraints. renewing them is about ensuring the safety of those who work at sea, it is about improving the quality of fish, it is about protecting the marine ecosystem. count on the support of all political parties for this cause, certain that they will not disappoint the citizens who elected us here to defend them.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, ulrike rodust, on her hard work and dedication. the outermost regions are distinct zones and are therefore the subject of a specific article in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the initiative report we are discussing here, based on this legal background, rightly calls for the creation of a financing instrument which differentiates these regions. in order to allow public aid to be granted for the replacement of vessels, an amendment calling for this possibility will be voted on tomorrow. it is important that public aid can be granted to fishermen in these remote areas and this does not affect the common fisheries policy, it just requires the amendment of a european commission recommendation. in addition, public aid for the replacement of vessels is prohibited by a commission recommendation, not by the basic cfp regulation. a recommendation which has not even been passed by the european parliament or the european council.
the report recognizes that the common fisheries policy does not respond to the specificities and needs of the outermost regions. it is a positive step, but it now requires at least legislative amendments to correct what is wrong. we welcome the proposal to create a new posei-fisheries, which we have been advocating for a long time and which we consider essential to combat the permanent disadvantages and constraints facing these regions. as regards the need to modernise and renew the fishing fleet in these regions, we must go further and therefore support the amendment which goes in this direction, which seems to us to be extremely well thought out and moderate. we shall continue to fight for the extension of the exclusive reserve area for the fleets of each region to the boundary of the exclusive economic zone, that is, from the current 100 to 200 miles. we will also continue to support measures that favour small-scale fisheries in the interests of environmental, social and economic sustainability.
mr president, in my last speech in strasbourg i denounced the usurpation of the functions of the national assembly and the democratic suffocation in venezuela. in just 21 days, after 10 demonstrations, more than 1,000 venezuelans were arrested, 71 of whom remain in prison, hundreds were injured and more than 20 lost their lives in the clashes and brutal repression by the bolivarian government. in an attempt to ease the tension, and in the wake of the protests that have occurred around the world, president maduro, in a coup d'état, announces the holding of local elections this year. but given maduro's demonstrated ability to manipulate electoral acts, and in the current climate of repression, how can we believe that this electoral process can offer any democratic guarantees? what the venezuelan people demand is the immediate end of the dictatorial regime of maduro, a government of national salvation and transition, which can deal with the serious humanitarian crisis created by maduro and the disarmament of the armed groups, the release of political prisoners, the purification of public powers and the convocation of free and democratic elections. no more, no less than that! this is the will of the brave people of venezuela and of the portuguese who have accepted the great venezuelan nation as their second homeland. it is to all of them that i wish to express my solidarity and my unconditional support. yesterday portugal celebrated its independence day, its 25th of april. i hope that tomorrow it will be the venezuelans' turn to celebrate their day of liberation from the oppressive yoke.
madam president, mr president of the eurogroup, mr moscovici, mr president of the eurogroup, i have to say to you face to face that if no one was able to do so at the eurogroup meeting, i here in the european parliament say to you face to face and face to face that we are not satisfied with a simple apology. the president of the eurogroup cannot continue as president of the eurogroup because, after making the statements he has made, he shows that he is prejudiced. how can you be here talking about greece when you have a prejudice against the greek people, the cypriot people, the portuguese people, who made the greatest sacrifices and who did so with governments, curiously the epp, when it was the socialist governments, of their political family, who destroyed our public accounts and who put countries like greece, cyprus and portugal into bankruptcy, obliged to make a very demanding programme? do you think people who have made such sacrifices, who have had to give up their salaries, their pensions, are people who spend their money on drinks and women? is that your idea? how can someone with this mentality have the authority and legitimacy to come and implement programmes and provide solutions for greece, as is the case today, or for portugal, or for cyprus, or for other countries? mr dijsselbloem, here in this house representing the peoples of europe, i say to you that you have only one option: resign and resign as soon as possible.
madam president, mr dijsselbloem, let it be clear that the explanations you have come to give to this parliament about your unacceptable statements about the countries of the south are late, do not erase the gravity of your insults and do not restore your credibility or the political conditions for extending your mandate as president of the eurogroup. as for greece, this delay in completing the evaluation of the programme is intolerable, when the results achieved by the greek government and people are evident and when the european commission comes here to praise the progress made. the truth is that greece is falling victim to positions more interested in the german elections than in defending the eurozone. it is urgent that we end this, stop playing with fire and finally close this programme, do justice to greece and the greek people.
madam president, mr president of the eurogroup, if the institutions of the european union had any respect for the peoples of the countries you have offended and for european women, you would no longer be in that position. to show him the door to the street, as the voters of his country did, would be, to say the least, an act of elementary common sense and civility. but the fact that you're still sitting there says a lot about the miserable state this has all gotten to. worse than their deplorable statements is what they say about the reality of the euro zone, in which entire countries and peoples are subjected to permanent relations of domination and subjugation that constrain and impede their sovereign development. the lackey's tireless availability to please the boss becomes ridiculous and contemptible. but that's it, the real problem is much bigger than that. mr dijsselbloem, although you still hold that seat, make no mistake, what you represent has no future.
in writing. there is no respect today on the part of the european union and its institutions for the peoples and especially for the women of the countries that the president of the eurogroup offended. his resignation is now a moral imperative and his failure to do so demonstrates the degree of rottenness of the european institutions. but the fact that the president of the eurogroup is still sitting there is symbolic of the miserable state of affairs that this has reached. worse than their deplorable statements is what they say about the reality of the eurozone, in which entire countries and peoples are permanently subjected to relations of domination and subjugation which constrain and impede their sovereign development. the lackey's tireless availability to please the boss becomes contemptible and ridiculous. but the real problem is much bigger than that. this is yet another sign that shows the historical limits of this model of integration which is doomed to be dismantled by the peoples in conflict.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that sustainable fishing using traditional fishing gear is the basis for the prosperity of coastal communities and contributes to food security in the outermost regions. the outermost regions are in a unique situation within the european union. in a natural context marked by insularity, a tropical climate and a rugged volcanic terrain, these regions are very far from the european continent, as is the case in my country, the azores and madeira. but they are of historical importance, they play a strategic role in protecting europe's sea lanes and defending its external borders. in recent years, the fishing pressure in the exclusive economic zone of some octs has increased to between 100 and 200 miles, with fishing being carried out predominantly by fleets not belonging to the octs concerned. the european union, geographically spread over four seas and two oceans and surrounded by islands, must protect its marine biological resources and create measures to support its small-scale and traditional fishing vessels, on which the survival of many fishing communities in the ors depends. we must not be fooled, what is at stake here is the survival of the fisheries sector in the ors.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i remember well that in 2013 a three-storey building where a textile factory was operating in bangladesh collapsed, revealing the non-compliance with basic safety standards and the dark side of the international clothing industry. in this tragedy 377 people died. the hard reality is that today the global garment industry's workforce is overwhelmingly female. some 85% of the workers in the sector are women, who often face difficult working conditions and very low pay and where child labour is a sad reality. for all these reasons, i think it is very important that the commission proposes binding legislation in the clothing sector to ensure that the european union and its trading partners and operators fulfil their obligation to respect human rights and the highest social and environmental standards. this report shows that europe recognises the need for a level playing field to protect workers from environmental and social dumping.
madam president, i have supported this resolution, which clearly criticizes the current political situation in venezuela. i am convinced that europe, or the european union, should not only be concerned with its internal market and its own problems, but should also be the guardian of human rights, freedom and democracy in other countries of our planet. and so it is good that we are addressing the situation in venezuela and that we are adopting this tough resolution that criticizes the current president who has staged a coup through the supreme court against the parliament and disrespects the majority in the parliament that is in opposition to president maduro. although our resolution will unfortunately be more of a declaratory nature and will not change the situation in venezuela much, i think it is very good and this resolution clearly states to support the democratic forces in venezuela, to support the opposition there against president maduro and to do everything to overthrow this tyrant and replace him with at least a little democratic government.
madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution on venezuela because i believe that, in view of the intensification of the fighting in that country and the brutal repression by the regime, which has already caused more than 20 deaths in one month, this is a way for this house to condemn this violence and to support the venezuelan people and the portuguese who live there in their legitimate aspirations for regime change, which will make it possible to deal with the serious humanitarian crisis created by maduro, disarm the armed groups, release the political prisoners, re-establish judicial independence and the powers of the national assembly and, with the establishment of a transitional government of national salvation, finally call for free and democratic general elections, duly supervised by independent observers. a sort of venexit was announced today following maduro's announcement to withdraw venezuela from the organization of american states, thus further isolating itself from the international community. we cannot be complicit in the silence or the euphemisms of a totalitarian regime which violates human rights with impunity and leads its own people into a situation of misery and social and political conflict. the venezuelans, who have so generously welcomed thousands and thousands of european migrants for decades, need our support and solidarity now more than ever.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, an effective fight against fraud requires two types of action: profound changes and reforms in the judicial systems of the member states, especially those countries which have emerged from long dictatorships, in order to adapt these judicial systems to the modernity of crime, to adapt these judicial systems to the requirements of democracy. it also requires the courage to carry out profound reforms in the judiciary at the level of the european union. it is necessary to establish a catalogue of crimes unique to the union and to establish courts with exclusive jurisdiction to try such crimes. the fight against economic and financial crime cannot be carried out through the 27 member states, through the judicial systems of the 27 member states. but the fight against this type of crime, economic and financial crime, is also carried out through political measures. fraud is not separated from corruption and it is necessary to develop a political fight against corruption in the european union, which discredits the union, discredits democracy and is a death blow to citizens themselves. finally, mr president, commissioner, we must spend taxpayers' money better. the political leaders of the european union need to spend taxpayers' money better.
mr president, it is worth noting that in 2010, for example, one million people died of hunger and malnutrition and, in addition, three million people, three times as many, died of obesity. more people die in the world from eating too much than from eating too little. 2.1 billion people are overweight and 793 million people suffer from malnutrition. so that some people have more resources in a sick way, others die because they lack them. adding to all this, fao has identified that about one-third of the food produced annually is directly lost and wasted. the misuse of resources is responsible for suffering that is absolutely avoidable in the world in which we live. the paradigm is no longer growth, but efficiency and sufficiency. this report points to interesting and consequential solutions ranging from organisational systems to food production and resource redistribution. it is an excellent report, necessary and urgent, and i congratulate the rapporteur on it.
madam president, the proximity of the various state services to all sections of the population has, in the so-called online public administration, a useful tool to exploit more fully. but precisely because of this proximity and the elementary criteria of equality and universality, this should not be a pretext for further disinvestment in public services. it is necessary to take into account the limitations of access to the network and new technologies by some segments of the population. it is one thing to put technological advances at the service of the population, making their lives easier, but it is quite another and quite the opposite to use the digitisation of the state as a pretext to suppress forms of physical and direct contact with the state services whenever they are needed, making the lives of the population more difficult. it would also be important to put an end to the enormous dependence of states on software produced by multinationals, which not only hurts them financially and blocks innovation, but also leaves enormous amounts of data at the mercy of the economic and political interests of these multinationals and of governments in other countries.
madam president, it has been 29 days since 1 500 palestinians held in israeli prisons began a hunger strike in protest against israel's denial of basic rights enshrined in international law and various conventions. access to medical care, freedom from torture and other forms of violent, cruel, degrading and inhuman treatment, knowledge of the charges and their formalisation, access to the relevant cases, meeting with the defence and visits by family members. given the scale of the protest and its duration, given the serious state of health of these prisoners, it is shocking to see the inhumanity of the israeli authorities, who refuse to transfer them to hospital units and keep them in isolation. but equally shocking is the silence, inaction and complicit indifference of the european union and its institutions, which are always so ready to wave the flag of human rights on other occasions. we want to express our solidarity with the palestinian political prisoners and call for their immediate release, while at the same time denouncing this hypocrisy.
madam president, commissioner, we talk a lot about european solidarity, but we are not consistent. in two years more than one and a half million people have arrived at our borders and member states have agreed to relocate less than one hundred thousand during the same period, which is a laughable number in itself, and almost two years later only 16% of this commitment has been met, with unaccompanied children being particularly affected. there are even states which want to exclude themselves from this effort. allow me, madam president, to refer to my country. portugal has expressed its willingness to take in more than 5 800 persons than initially agreed. in total, the prime minister announced during a visit to the german chancellor, portugal is prepared to receive 10 000 asylum seekers. civil society and the so-called third sector have already shown impressive and generous mobilization. portugal has taken in only 1 228 people, about one tenth of the target we set ourselves. once and for all, who's failing? is it the portuguese government? is it the european commission? or is it someone else's fault? this parliament has done everything in its power to counteract this trend. we have quickly approved the emergency mechanisms and the budgetary reinforcements and we come here today with a positive approach. the subject of this debate is actually making relocation work. let us be pragmatic in our diagnosis, let us see once and for all what is wrong and let us resolutely take all the necessary measures, all of them, without exception. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i agree with you, mrs grapini, that more communication and better communication is better, but that is not the problem. the problem is political will. there are member states which do not want to cooperate with the relocation effort. there are member states that do not want to do their part and this is not working. we cannot appeal to european solidarity and then it does not work. i agree with those who say that, in the absence of good will, we may indeed need a binding system, a system of compulsory quotas, a system of permanent relocation.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european union needs to be united in order to seize the opportunities and, at the same time, overcome the challenges of globalisation. only by coming together, in a coordinated, concerted way, can we shape, control and regulate globalisation. the protectionism advocated by the radical left and the radical right is not the solution, it breaks solidarity and increases poverty. the european union must act together and in solidarity to impose reciprocity and fair and honest competition. in the european union, we must invest in knowledge, innovation and research, in the fight against poverty and inequality. at the same time, we must export the values of democracy, respect for human rights, the defence of social and environmental rights. we can't be scared. together we will be able to leave a better world for future generations and the globalisation we have modelled will allow for a better quality of life for all the inhabitants of the planet and, to level, it must always be on top. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next partsession.
mr president, we have known for some time that the so-called globalisation, made possible by the achievements of science and technology, is not politically neutral. this globalisation corresponded to the expansion and consolidation of capitalist relations of production and the assertion of capitalism as the dominant economic and social formation on a planetary scale. the effects of this globalisation are the effects of the system that produced it. its contradictions are also the contradictions of the system that produced it: the contradiction between the social character of production and the private appropriation of the means of production, the contradiction between a system that either grows and accumulates or dies and the limits of a land that, being generous, is finite. the increasing concentration of wealth in the hands of a tiny minority has, on the other side of the coin, the globalization of the exploitation of man and nature, poverty, exclusion, illiteracy, disease and war. the european union is an agent of this globalisation. socialism is the only way out.
the so-called globalisation, made possible by the achievements of science and technology in the last half century, has never been politically neutral. globalisation today is an instrument in the service of ruling classes with a few winners who continue to exploit millions of losers. that was the case in the past and it remains so in the present. the effects of this globalisation are the effects of the system that produced it. its contradictions are also the contradictions of the system that produced it. the contradiction between the social character of production and the private appropriation of the means of production. the contradiction between a system that either grows and accumulates or dies and the limits of a generous but finite planet. but this globalisation also brings to light the historical limits of a system whose contradictions are now too obvious and with which we are confronted every day. the european union, as the agent of this globalisation, continues to resist the winds of history, staging escapes forward which do not solve the problem but rather postpone the break necessary for the emergence of a new society: the socialist society.
mr president, i would also like to use this opportunity to ask for your support and, on behalf of this house, draw the attention of the mexican authorities to the murder of javier valdez cardenas, a brilliant journalist who bravely exposed corruption, drug trafficking and organised crime in his country. his brutal murder yesterday was a signal to discourage other investigative journalists. we want to tell the mexican authorities that we honour his memory and want them to bring the perpetrators to trial for this despicable murder.
mr president, very briefly, just to underline the importance of this accession of the european union to this international committee. it is the international organisation for basic cotton products and currently brings together 27 countries, including producers, traders and consumers. the committee is one of the few bodies of which the european union is not a member. now, being part of other institutions, such as international organizations for products such as sugar, olive oil and cocoa, it was not very clear why i was not part of this group and so i hope that i can count on a positive vote, by the way, according to what happened in the respective committee, and that is all.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that the european union should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations. even if it is only a political strategy, which, as i said and i agree with you, is a lot, it is what is needed. as early as last week, we learned about the recordings when there was a shipwreck in 2013 in the mediterranean sea, where 268 people died, including 60 children, who were left to die, literally, by the italian and maltese authorities, who did not provide any help. i have not heard a word of condemnation from the european authorities or institutions. and the question is, where was the european union here? i wasn't. and these people were allowed to die because the european union no longer had the means to provide humanitarian aid, because it turned frontex into a patrol, it made lives count less and it made borders count more at the moment when these people needed help. another issue has to do with bureaucracy. when we talk about the relocation of refugees, why does it take so long, why is it so bureaucratic? how is it possible that there are undocumented children in the european union? what is this concept of undocumented children within the european union? so cutting red tape is within our reach and finally, finally, mr president, let me finish, you have allowed everyone. lastly, i said quite rightly that the european union does not have a direct military role in syria, but it does have an indirect role. for the third, fourth, fifth time, as many times as necessary, i say: no more arms sales to terrorist groups by european countries. an immediate embargo is the minimum of the minimum, because there can be no peace until the war is over, and to have peace we do not need european weapons on the ground.
we are discussing the european union's strategy for syria, but is there one? in listening to you, mrs mogherini, we are content to work for the post-conflict. meanwhile, the war continues. it has lasted for more than six years, with more than 400,000 dead, 5 million refugees, 6 million internally displaced. we are faced with more than the impotence of the european union, with the inhumanity of humanity. in the last few days, we have seen some horrifying videos: surgeries in syria, in refugee camps in neighboring turkey, harvesting organs from living children for the benefit of trafficking networks, in addition to thousands of arrests and disappearances by the regime and by terrorist groups active on the ground in syria, the use of sarin gas and other chemical weapons, massacres of civilians, etc. the list of horrors is endless, but it does not move european governments. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the un guidelines on the prevention of and punishment of the crime of genocide and on the implementation of the un guidelines on the prevention of and punishment of the crime of genocide. justice must be the priority, impunity is an impediment to the resolution of the conflict and to any prospect of lasting peace in the post-war period, as mrs mogherini also acknowledged. i would also like to hear you, mrs mogherini, speak up, confront our member states with the obligation to take in victims and refugees of this conflict, rather than trying to outsource responsibility to countries like turkey or like libya. we do not forget that it was also the failure of our governments to act, coordinated and strategically, that left the door open for russia and iran to support the criminal assad regime, allowing him and daesh and other terrorist groups to massacre the syrian people, with direct consequences for our security, for regional and global security.
mr president, madam high commissioner, i would like to welcome you and express my agreement, in essence, with the strategy you have just outlined here, because, frankly, i do not conceive of another and i have not heard another one in the course of this debate. i have heard a lot of criticism, but there has been no presentation of any real alternative strategy. the syrian conflict has long ceased to be a strictly national conflict. it is a regional conflict with a truly global outlook, because it calls for the participation of the major powers. it is a conflict which stems from religious confrontations and geopolitical calculations at its root, and the european union must invest, as the high commissioner has said, in two fundamental aspects: on the one hand, to contribute to the political mediation effort, in close coordination with what the united nations has been doing and, in particular, the secretary-general of the united nations, and to invest heavily in humanitarian aid, which we have already been doing. the fact that we are not, as you also said in your speech, an active military player in this process gives us at this stage of the process some advantage in this process. so what is expected and asked of the european union is precisely this, that it should put its full weight behind political mediation and its full weight behind humanitarian aid, and the news that has come from the brussels conference regarding the position taken by the european union and by several european states is reassuring news.
mr president, after having organized, armed, financed and supported the terrorist groups which led to the civil war in syria, the us administration, dragging the european union along, has decided to show once again that it intends to impose its world domination by force of arms and the threat of war. the unproven allegations of the use of chemical weapons are thus repeated. it is not even possible to carry out a proper and impartial investigation, which the syrian government itself has requested, as we recall the use of weapons of mass destruction in the aggression against iraq and a whole series of lies about libya. the un, its charter, its principles and rules of operation are being disrespected again and again. the bombing of a sovereign state, the threat of the destruction of a country and the disregard for the most fundamental rights of the syrian people are repeated violations of international law. it should be the duty of this parliament to condemn the war of aggression against syria and its people and to call for peace, for a political solution which guarantees respect for the right of the syrian people to their sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity.
madam president, madam high commissioner, the existence of christian communities in the middle east goes back to the very origins of christianity. indeed, it was in many of these communities that the first rapprochement between the christian religion and classical philosophical thought took place. christians, who a century ago accounted for about 20 percent, are now reduced to 3 or 4 percent of the region's population. especially in the past 15 years, christians in the middle east have been the target of discrimination, persecution, and violence that often results in exile or death. terrorist attacks against religious minorities in this part of the globe are not new, nor are they unique to the christian religion. muslims who profess other conceptions of islam are, in fact, the main victims of some kind of islamic extremism. there, as here, terrorism uses atrocious, frightening, dehumanizing and ultimately killing violence. in the territories occupied by the islamic state the christian community is subjected to humiliation and absolutely degrading pressure to convert to islam. populations are massacred, women are raped and turned into sex slaves. outside these territories terrorist attacks are carried out that kill believers in the holy place of worship. we all remember, as has already been mentioned, the recent terrorist attacks in egypt, two explosions on palm sunday, one inside a church, the other outside another catholic place of worship, 45 dead and over 100 injured. the war between sunnis and shiites, the growing influence of islam in political institutions and the dismantling of the state as a result of the war in iraq have contributed to a radicalisation scenario that challenges the integrity of religious minorities. europe must absolutely commit itself to giving all its support to these christian communities which are so violently persecuted in the middle east.
madam president, mr millán mon, it would be good if the european leaders who call themselves christians would listen to and draw conclusions from the message of pope francis, which, being religious, is also political. the trip to egypt, in the aftermath of the attack on two coptic churches, was powerful in this effort of ecumenical understanding, of solidarity, of peace, of combating extremist violence. and just this week, in fatima, the pope recalled the importance of dialogue and coexistence between christians, muslims and other religious confessions for the salvation of humanity. the defence of christian communities and other religious minorities in the middle east can only be ensured if europe leads the international community in ensuring effective protection so that these pre-islamic minorities can return to their ancestral territories which have already been liberated, such as sinjar, or as they are being liberated, as is now the case in and around mosul. it is therefore essential to give priority support to the reconstruction of these liberated areas, which has not been done so far. on the other hand, we must defeat and counter the islamophobia and anti-semitism that the populist far right is sowing in europe, because without our muslims we cannot overcome the threat of terrorism and violent extremism.
madam president, madam mogherini, i am with you and i fully support your message of hope to all religious groups who are victims of terrorism. i strongly condemn the attacks and attacks against eastern christians, to be precise we should say eastern christians, against all religious minorities, but let us not forget that these attacks are against the whole community, against the whole egyptian people, against all of us. the egyptian population has united around these attacks and we are here dividing. i could not believe it when i heard colleagues in this plenary today who call themselves christians say things like 'if we have to save someone, let's save the christians first' or 'killing christians is a double death'. i honestly wonder: am i the only one who sees a profound contradiction in these statements? are we back to the crusades? it is because dignity, humanity and human rights are what should unite us and terrorism is the central issue of all this. it is true, there are thousands and thousands of christians suffering and dying in the middle east, but there are also millions of muslims suffering and dying in the middle east. we should be with everyone and everyone.
mr president, commissioner, unfortunately we have seen that in some eastern european countries, the tragedy that communism unquestionably was, has been followed by other tragedies, and this is the case in moldova. but i take to heart the words of the speaker who preceded me: moldova is a european country, it is the poorest country in europe. since the beginning of the 21st century, however, moldova's economy has grown significantly, and the world bank itself predicts that after a brief hiatus, it will grow again. moldova signed an association and free trade agreement with the european union, opening the door to a market of 500 million people, and subsequently agreed to exempt its citizens from visa requirements for travel within the schengen area. three and a half million moldovans can now move freely within the european union and can easily establish trade relations with the countries of the european union. despite all this, political positions have recently prevailed which call into question this rapprochement with the european union and which favour a new link with russia. the russians are, of course, putting a lot of pressure on the moldovan population. in recent years, as relations with the european union have become closer, russia has alarmed the population, which is nevertheless heavily dependent on russia, not only economically but also socially. it has embargoed imports of moldovan wine, meat, fruit and vegetables and threatened to extend the ban to other products, increased the prices of energy supplies, threatened to impose visa restrictions on thousands of moldovans working in russia. we are therefore at a decisive moment for the future of this country, which, i repeat, is the poorest in europe, but which is also a country that is part of our european civilization, and so despite all the problems, despite all the mistakes made, i do not think that the european union should give up on continuing to encourage moldova to promote the consolidation of democracy, to solve the serious problems that have already been mentioned here and to carry out the reforms that are indispensable for its economic and social development. the worst thing that could happen to a country like this would be, without a doubt, for the european union to give it up. i'm sure that's not gonna happen.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cornelissen, for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cornelissen, for his report, which is a very good report. this premise, which would at the very least dispense with any regulation, is obviously unrealistic and leads to serious misunderstandings. it is not true that fintec necessarily produces better finance, better products, much less more transparency or better regulation. that is why this is an area in which public regulation is urgently needed. this report does not give us the strong, clear and concrete steps that were needed. we are pleased that some concerns have been introduced, such as consumer protection, but it seems to me that more elements were needed in addition to the brakes on activity itself, which are totally absent from the report. privacy and security rights, monitoring and data protection should have been better enforced and unsolicited spam should have been banned. unfortunately, in our view, this report falls short of its regulatory responsibility and that is why we cannot vote in favour of it. in any case, i appreciate the effort you have made to incorporate all the requests we have made in relation to the matter i referred to earlier. we can't possibly agree. we will continue to work together, no doubt, in other areas.
madam president, we have a clear and consistent line to deal with brexit. so this is good news and it creates good conditions for our negotiators to start their work. in this way we can also devote more energy to dealing with our own future. in both things, brexit and our own future, the concern with citizens should be our central focus. when it comes to the roadmap for the future of european union, the starting point to define the roadmap is to build up a convincing social pillar addressing the concerns of our peoples, but particularly young people, when they are dealing today with the so-called ‘digital revolution’. we need to make sure they have a proper contract and full access to social protection. we need to build up welfare systems for the 21st century. then we also need to address our citizens’ concerns when we set new trade agreements in order to protect proper social and environmental standards. we need a new generation of these trade agreements. again, we need to address citizens’ concerns when managing the migration and refugee crisis because we know that the real solution for this is to address the root of the problem by supporting neighbourhood development and peace building. all of these must be translated into a community budget of the future. our task is immense, and that is why we should work now with a real focus on a scenario which is not one or two of five, but should be a simple one: let us work together for much better solutions on the relevant priorities.
madam president, it is often said that the worst blind man is the one who does not want to see. to those who are quick to see the elections in france and the netherlands as an expression of popular support for european union, we would remind them that the parties which have defended and implemented the policies of the european union have been heavily penalized by the electorate. it is true that some, dressed in new clothes, now want to perpetuate the same old policies. sooner or later, they will suffer the fate of those before them. the worrying advance of the far right must be measured not only by the electoral expression of the parties that represent it, but also by the dissemination of its principles, values and conceptions, and its assimilation by other forces of the political spectrum from the right to social democracy, in discourse and in community practices, in the acceptance of the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees, through to economic policies favouring big capital and generating profound social injustices. in the history of peoples, there are no dead ends. the alternative to the far right is not, and cannot be, the policies and politicians that open the door to the far right.
madam president, i think that the g7 meeting is the moment for truth and the moment of truth in the relationship between the european union, european union big countries, japan, canada and the united states. we have here the first big opportunity, especially the president of the commission and the president of the council, to face mr trump and to explain to him the why the european union, security – especially a firm and tough attitude towards russia – and free trade are so important to defend democracy, the rule of law, human rights and a fairly balanced globalisation process. we can’t miss this opportunity. it is essential that we ensure that mr trump can understand – because of the attitudes and of the policies of his allies that are here; these countries are the greatest allies of the united states – that he has to be very firm on russia without any ambiguity, very loud and clear, and at the same time that he has to defend our way of life, and that means also free trade and a regulated globalisation.
mr president, banking is of enormous importance, particularly in support of investment and consumption. it also has a special feature: when banks make a profit, it is distributed to their shareholders; when they do make a loss, it is borne by the taxpayers. in portugal, portuguese taxpayers have already paid more than €20 billion in losses to private banking. there is another extremely important aspect which is the ease with which managers of private banks are called to public supervisory functions in central banks and the speed with which they move into the management of those private banks. for all these reasons, and because of all these bad examples, the powers of the european central bank must be extended and its powers strengthened so that it can exercise strict banking supervision throughout the european union. only then will banks be put back in the service of the purposes for which they were created and for which they are largely benefited by the public authorities and the european taxpayers.
mr president, as one would expect, this debate on the powers and control of the ecb has become a way not of building solutions to strengthen the transparency and accountability of the central bank, but of combating the expansionary monetary policy of the european central bank. we know the plot well. all european responses to the crisis began with accusations of violating the treaties and the legal mandates of the institutions. monetary policy is no exception. the truth is that the situation of the european economy would be much worse today without the contribution of the ecb and a hasty decision to withdraw the stimulus to the economy would be a mistake, a serious mistake, which would jeopardise the recovery of the european economy. it is clear that those who oppose the ecb's expansionary monetary policy have their own interests ahead of europe's common interests, but it is these interests that must be reminded that this is not the ecb's mandate either. the ecb's mandate is to defend the euro area as a whole and we hope that it will continue to do so.
mr president, let's be honest with each other. the european central bank is both the most powerful and the least controlled central bank in the world. the problems arising from the powers of the european central bank are of three different orders. first, there is the conflict of interest between the different functions of the central bank, which is, of course, in charge of monetary policy, is a supervisor, in short, is a policeman and a thief, and no one controls it. the second problem has to do with the ecb's mandate. the ecb's mandate makes it an impartial bank in the face of the economic and social consequences of its monetary policy. the third problem is that - beyond the limits of the ecb's mandate, which simply do not exist - the ecb acts in all areas where it sees fit to act, whether in economic areas or in social areas, to the point of designing adjustment programmes by putting financial pressure on countries with governments with a different political orientation from the ecb's, as happened, for example, with greece. so to speak of democratic control, mr president, is to look at this parliament. the ecb officials come here to explain themselves whenever they want, say whatever they want; if they don't feel like saying anything, they fill us with emptiness and void. but in reality, the ecb has no control and, as i said, it has the most power and the least control of any central bank on a world scale.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. commissioner, i would also like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on the joint work that has been possible. we all know that it is very important to define legally the procedures to ensure effective crossborder portability of online services and content, but this does not mean that we cannot harmonise and modernise technological infrastructures at european level and fight very strongly against digital exclusion, caused either by problems of qualification, by problems of economic difficulties or by geographical restrictions. this opinion, which i was rapporteur for in the itre committee, contains very relevant contributions from a legal and procedural point of view. it allows differentiation between service payments and licence fee payments. it ensures that creditors are bound by the contractual conditions as they exist at the date of entry into force of this regulation. it ensures the duty to provide information on the quality of services. it lays down the definitions of subscriber, consumer, member state of residence, temporary resident. it defines simplified verification mechanisms. it ensures technological neutrality. all this is very important, but as the commissioner has also said here, to take advantage of this opportunity it is important to develop a european digital identity based on digital inclusion and technological leadership, and for this it is very important to integrate this regulation with the telecoms package, with the rules on the end of roaming or with the implementation of the wifi4u initiative. only then will we be able to make portability a measure that benefits everyone, develops the market and benefits european citizens in particular. our ambition must be, first and foremost, to reconnect european citizens with the european project and to put in place measures that influence and improve their daily lives. and this regulation under discussion is a good example of this type of measure.
madam president, the defence of harmonization in the sector in favour of a single market is nothing more than a highway for the phenomena of concentration and the creation of transeuropean road transport monopolies, subordinating to their interests the extortion of national wealth and public funds, imposing public-private partnerships, promoting the creation of debt. the workers and the people will be the first to suffer the consequences of the intentions they set out to achieve. in a sector where there is a growing use of low wages and degrading working conditions, the proposals that are being put forward will contribute to harmonization and deregulation of employment, to increasing precariousness and social deprivation, to exploitation. what is required is the defence of the sector as a strategic axis in the service of the sovereign development of any member state, based on public policies of development and investment, of a road transport network and guaranteeing, at the same time, work with rights and collective bargaining, wage increases, the right to training.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank mr karim for his work. this sustainability pact was signed in 2013, following the tragic accident that occurred at rana plaza in april of that year. it is worth mentioning and it is worth noting that more than 1 100 people died while working in this building and that is why we as european politicians must do everything we can to ensure that such a tragedy does not happen again. in this sense, i think it is very timely that we have this debate before tomorrow's meeting in dhaka and the resolution we shall vote on afterwards. i would ask you, commissioner, and through you the whole commission, and i am sure you will, not to give up on the work you are doing together with the government of bangladesh and the international organizations involved. i would also ask you, if there is any relaxation in the implementation of what has been agreed, to put more pressure on the competent authorities to ensure that this commitment is respected. we believe that the international institutions, particularly the ilo, but also the private sector, should continue their work in improving the general conditions of workers in this country and the truth is, and this is good news, that there are many people who are watching this in the field of the measures contained in this pact. the fact is that despite the progress made in general working conditions, particularly in the safety of buildings, which we congratulate and the government of bangladesh in particular, we believe that these tangible benefits which have been achieved, as has been reported in the annual evaluations, must continue and must be extended, because in fact in recent months we have not seen any significant progress in the rights of workers. it is therefore necessary to amend the labour law to include expressions relating to freedom of association and collective bargaining, which are also contained in the ilo conventions. we also need a serious and respectful rule of law. we therefore call on the government of bangladesh to fight corruption, to prevent arbitrary arrests, and we also call for any impartial investigations or trials by its police and judicial authorities. i conclude by simply drawing attention to the need for the laws governing so-called industrial export free zones to be in line with accepted international standards and for all alleged abuses reported against trade unionists to be properly investigated.
mr president, commissioner, the funds associated with the european economic area mechanism are part of the contribution of norway, iceland and liechtenstein to full participation in the single market of the european union. this mechanism has resulted in the development of important scientific research activities and the promotion of social inclusion in the member states of the european union. the relationship between the european union and the kingdom of norway has so far been mutually beneficial. despite the benefits of the agreements on trade and transit of fish, norway has been taking unilateral steps which cause us great concern. these include the breach of the svalbard treaty. we heard the norwegian minister for fisheries in the european parliament and his arguments did not convince us. the european commission has my full support in ensuring that union fishermen have equitable and environmentally sustainable access to svalbard waters.
member of the commission. dear members of the european parliament, dear colleagues, good morning! i would like to begin my speech today by thanking, first of all, the regi committee, the committee on regional development of the european parliament, and the two rapporteurs, mr novakov and mrs tomašić, for these reports. first, i will talk about the report on the right balance between financial instruments and grants in the european union's cohesion policy. the commission naturally welcomes this report which is a key topic for the ongoing discussions on omnibus, the changes you are proposing to adopt in the context of the revision of the multiannual financial framework, and for the development of post-2020 policy. in our view, the european commission, an appropriate combination of grants and financial instruments is essential to make a difference on the ground, at local and regional level. i think we can all agree on a few common principles needed to achieve this successfully. firstly, the financing mix must be tailored to the type of investment, but also to the characteristics of each sector and each region. we believe that a significant part of cohesion policy has to be delivered through grants and could not be delivered otherwise when it comes to essential infrastructure such as schools, hospitals, childcare which do not have a direct profit. financial instruments are those that complement this support by targeting income-generating investments. at the same time, financial instruments should not be reserved for the rich and you know very well that we encourage all member states and provide technical assistance to all regions, including the poorest, to adopt and duplicate financial instruments. the commission is supporting all regions in strengthening their capacity to use the financial instruments, as i said. the second principle is that of accountability, of holding stakeholders accountable. i think this is key to enabling cohesion policy to have an impact on the ground. the managing authorities in our programmes are our best and closest partners without whom we could not implement our programmes. they are strategically placed to identify those combinations of grants and financial instruments that are appropriate for each region. in contrast, national and regional promotional banks benefit from fundamental expertise, which we need to leverage to strengthen our capacity to attract and realise the best investments. that is why we are proposing in omnibus to award contracts directly for the implementation of financial instruments and of course we in the commission would appreciate it if these regulations proposed in omnibus were adopted by you and then by the council as soon as possible. third principle: we need a well-defined framework to enable the development of safe, long-term projects, and so it is important that the changes we are discussing now are balanced and calibrated. as regards the own-initiative report by ms tomašić on the future prospects for technical assistance in cohesion policy, the commission naturally welcomes this report. several commission initiatives are recognised, such as taiex regio peer 2 peer. unfortunately, in my weekly visits to many member states, i often get the feeling that even the ministers are not aware of all these tools that the commission makes available, and this saddens me because, in practice, i have invented all these tools precisely to come to the aid of the member states. we have 250,000 workers on the ground in the field of european funds. they have accumulated experience, more or less; some have been working in this field for 42 years, since the regional development fund was invented, others have been working for 10 years, as in romania or bulgaria, others for four years. i strongly believe in this exchange of good practice which supports the exchange between fund managers and experts to increase administrative capacity between member states, regions and municipalities. we provide these services at the request of member states and i can assure you that we have very few requests in this regard; so if tomorrow a member state tells us it needs technical assistance on public procurement, within five days the commission is mobilising and sending the best experts from the regions who are performing in this field. so in this respect, i encourage you all to make all the tools that the commission makes available to member states, free of charge, known. therefore, i congratulate you on this report for providing valuable suggestions on the more effective use of technical assistance, a very useful tool, especially in the context of the post-2020 discussions. so i want to stress once again that we in the european commission encourage member states to adopt a targeted financial instrument approach given the difficulties and experiences they have faced in the past. for example, we suggested to member states that they use technical assistance to complete the fulfilment of preconditions - what we call ex-ante conditionalities for investment, but also for the implementation of anti-fraud and anti-corruption actions. unfortunately, member states generally want to use this technical assistance to cover staff and salary costs. i appreciate your speech and that of mr novakov, who very well highlighted the challenges of labour migration, brain drain, brain drain, the demographic challenges in less developed regions. we're here to help. you are right: training and preparation are sometimes more important than money and i am glad that both rapporteurs, including the representative of the committee on budgets, have stressed the responsibility of the member states, because when it comes to implementation, it is one hundred per cent the responsibility of these states. i asked the member states to ensure that all funds can support staff and authorities carrying out the most important tasks, including intermediate bodies, but also regional and local authorities. i believe, as you do, that we can improve the way we use technical assistance, i believe that we must support evolution, we are at the beginning of the debate on the future of cohesion policy. we are thinking, for example, of advancing technical assistance at the beginning of the funding period, not every year, so that the implementation system can be ready before the programmes start and the selection of projects - this is one of the ideas. we could also use technical assistance to support national and regional administrations to strengthen their project pool. this will help us to ensure that the implementation of projects can start as soon as funding is available because it is very important for us to learn from the lessons of the past and not start the financial cycle with all these delays that we are having now and we had seven years ago. in any case, we are also considering ideas such as better targeting of technical assistance to beneficiaries or exchanges of experience between regions. thank you very much. mr viotti also stressed the fundamental role of strategic funds and structural investment funds, and how they can be combined to maximise impact on the ground. i look forward to your comments and suggestions. thank you very much!
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, in this period of convergence, the european union has entered a divergence trajectory since the year 2000 with the less developed regions and with these less developed regions moving away from the european average and the richer regions. the multiannual financial framework reflects this reality with a significant reduction in the amount of cohesion funds compared to previous financial frameworks. and the question of financial instruments is in fact another aspect of this deliberate choice to subordinate redistributive policies and agricultural policy. i should like to say that, according to the hearings we have held in the agri committee, it has been amply demonstrated that financial instruments cannot, under any circumstances, replace existing support, particularly at the level of the second pillar of the cap, and therefore cohesion cannot be a keyword. it implies means, but it also implies, and i cannot fail to mention this, the end of austerity policies, the end of the imposition of the single currency, which constrain the national states in carrying out their public investment plans and limit, in many cases, the actual use of the structural funds.
mr president, commissioner, financial instruments are a means to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy and not an end in themselves. they should be used as an additional tool for sectors where they prove more appropriate than subsidies. grants should remain the main instrument of cohesion policy, especially for small beneficiaries. for us socialists, it is clear that we will concentrate on the projects which are most important to the citizens of the european union. investments should focus on areas that can produce multiplier effects on employment and growth, such as investments in innovation, education and sustainable energy. people are the real driving force behind innovation and the establishment of just and progressive societies. for this reason, financial instruments should also contribute to strengthening the social pillar of cohesion policy. it is also necessary to improve the performance of financial instruments in the less developed regions, that is, in those regions with the highest unemployment rates, by trying to find measures, through positive discrimination, which help to reduce the asymmetries. finally, we want a cohesion policy which continues to distribute the public funds of the european union but which, at the same time, advocates strict accountability and accountability. it is crucial that clear rules are established and that technical assistance guidelines are provided to the administrations involved to overcome the problems, something which the commissioner has always advocated from the outset along with the european parliament. finally, a warm welcome to all those who defend cohesion policy as one of the best expressions of solidarity between the regions of the european union.
in writing. the european union, as a process of capitalist integration, is not geared towards economic and social cohesion but towards divergence. cohesion policy as such only came into being when there was a fear that the divergences created by free capitalist competition between economies with very different degrees of development would become unsustainable. however, the resources devoted to it over the years have never allowed cohesion policy to fulfil its function. jacques delors, more than 20 years ago, advocated the doubling of the eu budget in order to achieve cohesion. since then, the eu has grown, but the budget has shrunk. what was never enough was weakened even more. since the beginning of the century, economic and monetary union and the euro have given an even stronger impetus to divergence. the structural funds, which now want to turn to speculation to provide financial instruments, play a central role in this context. in addition to never being sufficient, its use has become increasingly conditional over time, subject to eu political priorities and strategies (liberalisation, privatisation, deregulation) rather than being geared to the specific needs of each country according to its sovereign choices.
author. - mr president, the fight against violations of fundamental rights, such as that which is taking place in zambia, involves two orders of measures. firstly, the powers and jurisdiction of the international criminal court must be strengthened and its field of action extended to include countries which have not signed the treaty of rome. the assurance that no violator of human rights will go unpunished is the greatest guarantee we can give to potential victims of these violations, because it is the greatest deterrent we can impose on violators. other measures are political and economic in nature and require a genuine and determined fight against poverty. wherever there is poverty, there will always be human rights violations, not least because poverty itself is a qualified violation of human rights.
mr president, five weeks ago, zambian opposition leader hakainde hichilema was brutally arrested in his home while he was sleeping, on charges of treason. this serious episode and the protests it sparked are the culmination of restrictions on freedom of expression and the increase in police and political violence that has been occurring in zambia since the election campaign for the presidential elections last august. the disproportionate and unnecessary violence used by the police forces at the time of his arrest, the conditions in which he is being held and the possibility of a life sentence or even the death penalty pose a threat to the rule of law and are in clear breach of zambia's international obligations. the european union must clearly condemn all forms of intimidation against those whom the government considers to be opponents and support the promotion of an open and constructive dialogue between the patriotic front and the united party for national development to help restore democracy in zambia.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in ethiopia two days ago yonatan tesfaye, spokesperson for the opposition blue party, was sentenced as a terrorist for comments he made on facebook about human rights. last november, dr merera gudina, the oromo opposition leader, was arrested and tortured under terrorist charges for the crime of participating in a public hearing here, at the european parliament, with dr berhanu negra, another opposition leader democratically elected in 2005, then sent to jail, now in exile, and also deemed a terrorist. thousands of political prisoners languish in jail in ethiopia, jailed by a totalitarian government which was never elected, and whose last farcical election emulated north korea, with the ruling party winning 100% of the votes. the violation of human rights in ethiopia is systematic and aggravated under the state of emergency, with excessive force against peaceful demonstrators, massacres like at irreecha, brutalising victims of the garbage dump landslide last march, brutal repression against the roma community and other ethnic groups, arbitrary arrests, torture, killings, and terrorist charges against those who dare to dissent. in this resolution we call on the high representative to mobilise members to support a un-led inquiry into the killings in ethiopia. the commission and council must stop the pretence that they are dealing with a respectful government in ethiopia as justification for wasting piles of eu taxpayers’ money on development aid, security capacity and the migration compact. they are, in fact, assisting a corrupt dictatorship which rules by terror, thus fuelling rebellion and insecurity. ethiopia is indeed strategic. when ethiopians revolt all africa will tremble.
mr president, yesterday we had the un secretary-general, antónio guterres, who warned us of the growing number of world conflicts which are now affecting thousands of people around the world and which it is urgent that the un and the european union should work together to resolve. and one of the conflicts that was mentioned here was the one that has been going on for three years now in south sudan and which has turned into a veritable civil war of dante-like proportions, where the government is one of the main responsible for the violation of human rights through large-scale military operations. ladies and gentlemen, without questioning the goodwill of the un, the truth is that in 2016, the un security council, which could have intervened to force the sudanese government to immediately cease all military operations, did not want to adopt a resolution that would have imposed an arms embargo on south sudan. i therefore believe that, regardless of the readiness or inaction of the un, the european union must act now and increase humanitarian aid to south sudan, while at the same time imposing a total embargo on the sale of arms to south sudan, with strict compliance with the european union's arms export control to that country. that is our duty as europeans.
madam president, this resolution, despite its positive aspects, represents a step backwards from the positions previously adopted by the european parliament in support of the two-state solution. i am concerned that it equates occupier and occupied, without even hurting the occupation, and fails to ask member states to strictly respect the principle of differentiation, security council resolution 2334; that it does not condemn the racist nationality law that israel has just adopted, making israeli arabs second-class citizens; that the mention of the eu-israel trade agreement is ambiguous, failing to clarify that it is necessary to ensure that products produced in palestine, or which are based on the illegal exploitation of palestinian resources, cannot be marketed in europe under the israeli label; that it makes a direct attack, in the line of the extreme right-wing israeli government, on the french initiative that the european parliament supported, as did the high commission, the representative and the council; that it condemns only acts of violence and terrorist attacks against israelis. what about palestinians? in short, this resolution fails to send a consistent message to the israeli government and the palestinian authorities of european resolve in support of the two-state solution and a just and lasting peaceful solution for the two conflicting peoples.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that in the face of the humanitarian disaster, unprecedented in our recent history, that that country is experiencing, the european union must continue to make every political and diplomatic effort to combat the use of chemical weapons, to create a more humane, humanitarian and secure european migration policy and to find a peaceful solution to the syrian conflict, including accompanying instruments to strengthen compliance with the commitments made within the international group supporting syria. the european union, as the largest donor, reaffirms its commitment to contribute more visibly and effectively to alleviating the humanitarian consequences of the conflict and reiterates the need to hold accountable those responsible for the unspeakable atrocities committed by the regime and its allies, which is a prerequisite for lasting peace in that long-suffering country. as the united nations secretary-general, antónio guterres, noted yesterday in his brilliant speech in this house, the syrian conflict is a terrible threat to global security, where no one wins and everyone loses.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that, in the light of the commission's latest report on regulation and resettlement and in the absence of a much-needed european asylum system based on responsibility sharing, member states must honour their obligations towards asylum seekers from greece and italy and, if they do not, they should be subject to infringement proceedings. as i said, madam president, only 17,903 asylum seekers have been relocated so far. what justification can we give to the more than 142 000 people, many of them minors, unaccompanied, who, in undignified conditions and systematic vulnerability, are waiting for the member states to fulfil their commitments? ladies and gentlemen, the refugee crisis is also the result of the crisis of european solidarity. i therefore believe that it is our duty to do everything possible to ensure that refugees are properly accompanied and protected in the european area.
in writing. i welcome the package of measures taken by the european commission to modernise european mobility and transport. improving transport is an essential component of smart land management and improving the quality of life for citizens. it is also an opportunity for european research centres and industry to lead a new technological era, with the energy transition (to electric mobility) and the new digital society as its pillars. better transport means easier interaction between people, more fluidity in the movement of goods, more economic competitiveness and better air quality, while also reducing noise and protecting people's well-being. i also stress the impact of these measures on the multimodal and crossborder interconnection of transport systems, promoting interoperability and the complementarity of solutions and alternatives. this package of proposals is a powerful catalyst for a new generation investment plan which, to quote the commission's communication, can 'provide an important stimulus for the creation of a clean, competitive and connected european mobility of the future'.
mr president, i would like to say the following. the first key point is that for this consensus on development, it is essential that countries do not enter into a purely nationalist logic and, unfortunately, what we see is that the united states has still today given a signal on sustainable development by being only focused on its national agenda. we, the more developed nations with greater economic capacity, must be open to development and cooperation with those countries where a large part of the population lives in extreme poverty. eradicating poverty, creating a middle class in these states is our responsibility, not only as full-bodied human beings, but also as political actors, who can, by doing so, solve many of the problems, which are not only those of these populations, they are also ours. if we are able to help them, we are helping ourselves and that is what this consensus we have achieved here will naturally enhance.
mr president, the european union's new consensus on development is a good indication of the limits, contradictions and perversities of the policies pursued in this field in recent years. we are faced with a general vision which, instead of respecting the specificities and legitimate sovereign choices of the developing countries, seeks to impose models of organization of society and the economy. it is thus with the defence of the role of the private sector, the prejudice against public ownership and management or the imposition of public-private partnerships, just to give a few examples. models which tend to perpetuate dependence, subordination and backwardness. it is an attempt to subordinate the european union's powers to their geopolitical interests, to their so-called security and migration policies, to their unconcealed xenophobic and neo-colonial policies. it is the credit lines at the expense of genuine development aid. it is the pushing into more debt, rather than the recognition of the unjust and illegitimate character of the debt, that demands its cancellation. a new consensus that points, however, to an old, very old way.
madam president, we are building resilience in foreign action. we need a european union with the tools and strategic autonomy to ensure internal and external security for its citizens. we therefore need a european foreign policy and a common security and defence policy, enabled by cooperation and sharing between member states, to respond effectively to transnational and global threats. we need strategic and coherent external action across the board, including a consensus for development, which prioritises poverty eradication, civil society empowerment, women's empowerment, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and humanitarian principles. without it, there can be no good governance, and we cannot achieve the millennium development goals and sustainable development. the governments are working against resilience, pushing back against xenophobic rhetoric that links migrants and refugees to terrorists, when, attack after attack, it turns out that the so-called foreign fighters are in fact european citizens. making our cities resilient, particularly against terrorism, implies changing the anti-islamic self-defeating narrative; combating social exclusion, inequalities and job destruction. it also means promoting multicultural coexistence and global regulation.
madam president, in addition to everything else that the european union's foreign and security policy has to be unacceptable, there is a certain cynicism, a certain hypocrisy, in this overall strategy that defines resilience as one of the priorities of the european union's external action. the european union, which promotes aggression, interference and the destabilisation of sovereign countries, then elects as a strategic priority the state and societal resilience of those who are attacked. turning to the east and the south, this strategy has in ukraine and syria a full and exemplary demonstration of its objectives and its consequences. it would be better if the priority were to be given to scrupulous respect for international law, the charter of the united nations and the principles enshrined in it: from respect for national sovereignty to the peaceful settlement of conflicts. it would be better not to try to make a so-called development aid the biome for the assertion of the imperial ambition and geostrategic interests of the european powers and their economic groups.
the world has committed itself to the sustainable development goals. of these, the fourteenth concerns the oceans. sustainable development is based on three pillars that cannot be ranked. as provided for in the full text of the united nations, opportunities for development must be given to remote communities and island states. at the important meeting in new york next week, a number of states and organizations will commit to the sustainable use of the oceans. it is essential to move from political commitments to concrete action. the way the european union and its member states are getting involved, on a voluntary basis, strengthens my pride in being european. we know that the united states of america is blocking agreements and decisions committed to sustainable development. this is another reason why the european union should take the lead and show its commitment in this matter. this is not just my appeal, it is a cry of future generations.
madam president, dear commissioner, in 2016 the european union set out the joint agenda for the future of our oceans. in 2015, the leaders of g7 agreed on a declaration that highlights the importance of oceans governance science? the 2030 agenda for sustainable development proposes 17 sustainable development goals, amongst them sdg 14 – the oceans goal – which aims to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. however, only 2.18% of the world’s oceans have been fully protected as of today. our oceans cover more than two thirds of the earth’s surface and contain 97% of our planet’s water. over three billion people depend on marine and coastal resources for their livelihoods, the majority of world trade is conducted by sea and the importance of the blue economy cannot be ignored. nevertheless, we take our oceans for granted. eighty per cent of marine pollution and litter in oceans comes from land-based sources, and maritime co2 emissions are projected to increase by 50% to 250% in the period up to 2050. put simply, oceans, seas and coastal areas form an integrated and essential component of the earth’s ecosystem. the ocean is a primary regulator of climate and weather. next month in new york the united nations’ first global conference on the oceans will take place with the aim of developing a robust implementation framework for our oceans. i believe that today, with the united states drifting away, the european union should play an important role, on the basis of its experience, and not only through its environmental policy, in developing a sustainable approach to ocean management.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for their valuable contributions. starting with mr wałęsa, i agree that it is time to take more concrete action. that was the idea behind vice—president mogherini and myself launching the ocean governance communication last november. this is a very important way of moving forward, focusing our ocean governance strategy on three areas: first, to strengthen the legal framework; second, to reduce human pressures on the oceans; and, third, to continue investing in more research and more knowledge. i agree with mr serrão santos that it is important, again, to move from commitment to implementation and for the european union not to take the lead but to continue to lead, especially in the absence of the usa. i also agree with ms girling that we have come a long way but still have a long way to go. this applies not just to the european union, because this is a global issue and what we are doing is not only within the european union: we are tackling this at a high global level. i also agree with mr nicolai that agenda 2030 is an ambitious agenda. i can assure you that, in the same way that we took the lead during the negotiation process, we will continue with that lead, even more importantly during the implementation phase as well. as i mentioned, eliminating gaps in the legal framework is one of our focus areas in the ocean communication. fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu) is another important aspect of our second area of priority, reducing human pressures on the ocean. i also agree that we have to walk the walk when we say that all countries and all continents have to do the same. we cannot possibly move on more, better and stronger legal frameworks if some of us have still not ratified the existing legal framework, such as the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) – and we are doing our best to push the countries in question to start committing to and implementing the existing legal frameworks. with regard to an instrument on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction (bbnj), a lot of progress has been made, and in the coming weeks one of the final preparatory meetings will take place. again, we are pushing other countries for support. with regard to international agreements, we all know what is happening in the usa. i have already mentioned elsewhere that international agreements are there to be honoured. we cannot discuss, commit to and then not honour our commitments. with regard to marine litter, this is a scourge and we are also addressing this, among other things through the new plastics strategy, which will be coming out before the end of this year. we are trying not just to address what has already happened in the ocean but to address this issue at source. we call it ‘marine litter’ but it is actually all land litter that ends up in the sea. regarding encouraging blue growth, we recognise the ‘blue opportunities’ from the oceans, but we also recognise the environmental responsibilities that go along with this, and these environmental responsibilities come into play when we talk about deep-sea mining, drilling and so on. ms goddyn, with regard to illegal fishing, using the red card is, i think, the most effective tool that we have – and we have used it. it has been effective because, when it comes to trade, we have seen countries which were traumatised when we used the red card but some of which, today, are our best partners when it comes to fighting iuu. mr millán mon, it is true that our industry in europe is one of the best regulated and, i should add, not just within european union waters but in our external waters as well. one word of caution: we do, more than anything, want to support small—scale fisheries, but unfortunately – and i say this with a little sadness – small-scale does not always mean sustainable. i think we have to focus on what is sustainable and what is not rather than looking at what is big or small. with regard to quotas and where stocks are, we are doing our best. at the moment, the only pending issue, where everyone is saying that the stocks are doing well and we can utilise a higher quota, is probably tuna. we are waiting for the new quotas to come out. new scientific advice will be coming out in the next few weeks as well. ms bonafè again mentioned the fact that, unfortunately, president trump is not complying. it was a very sad statement that we all followed today. my feeling is that this does not reflect what the whole of the usa is thinking because i know that ngos there are totally supportive, as is a section of the private sector. i know that even some of states within the usa have already come up with their own plans for ocean governance and blue growth. here again, the european union is ready to take a stronger lead and i think this is the sentiment when we talk to other continents and other countries. they are not saying that if the usa is not taking on its commitment they will not take on theirs. no, it is the complete opposite of that: the sentiment is that, if a vacuum is created by the usa, we have to work harder and to do better to fill that vacuum. ms pietikäinen, you said the same thing about taking a stronger lead, especially in terms of what we are seeing. i totally agree with you about the ecosystems. very often, when we talk about ecosystems and biodiversity, we are referring to our biodiversity and ecosystems on land, yet we know that the oceans are home to more than 70% of the planet’s global ecosystem. with regard to the arctic, we are pushing through our arctic policy – which we also launched last year – to have a fishing moratorium and to agree that no fishing will take place before there is scientific advice on this. mr faria also mentioned the areas protected in the oceans. when it comes to protected areas, it is true that we have made more progress on land than we have in the ocean. on land we have managed to reach 18% to 20% of the surface area of the eu, whereas in the oceans we have barely reached 60%. so we have to do more work, not just to identify the areas but also to see how we are going to manage those areas because simply identifying the areas without having any management plans at all is not going to get us anywhere. i agree with mr caputo that the coming conference in new york is a unique opportunity for everyone to start showing their commitment. i would add that the conference in malta in october is also a very important one. as i said in my speech, the two events are complementary and mutually reinforce one another. we are looking forward to the sequence of the other ocean conferences, the fourth one being in october. mr marius, yes, regarding our fight against iuu, you mentioned china. china is a special case because we can see that it wants to be committed and is making positive signs, with a lot of willingness to cooperate. just to let you know, we have set up the eu-china blue year this year, and tomorrow we are going to have a chinese delegation – another chinese delegation within a period of three months – to continue working on our eu—china blue year and, as i said, we will continue pushing to turn their willingness into action. i would like to thank everyone involved once again and i would like, in particular, to thank ms engström.
in writing. sustainable development goal 14, as defined by the un, concerns the conservation and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. this is one of those areas where the need for coordinated and shared efforts at international level is evident. the oceans and seas are indeed fundamental to our life, to our well-being and to the future of humanity and the planet as we know it. the issues under discussion such as ocean warming and acidification, coral bleaching, increasing pressure on fish stocks and the increasing amount of marine litter are relevant and require discussion and action with a view to protecting the oceans. without accepting that the eu and its policies are being shaped by a sustainability paradigm, on the contrary, we follow the concern that is at the root of this debate, which we consider necessary. a broad view of the whole range of interactions between man and the seas and oceans, and of the activities associated with them, is required. fishing is just one of the activities to be considered. there are others, such as the exploitation of mineral resources, among other examples, which have been gaining increasing centrality.
mr president, we are debating today two structural themes of the digital revolution we are witnessing in the european union and in the world. for a world in rapid change and full of uncertainties, the digital revolution is an opportunity to re-shape the european project. i welcome the report on the digitisation of european industry and its rapporteur for the proposal for a global strategy, addressing the dimensions of infrastructure, investment, innovation and skills. i also welcome the report on 5g and its rapporteur for the new technological vision it shares, combining the instruments needed to make it a reality. this week, parliament and the council reached a provisional agreement on the wi-fi4eu initiative. as your rapporteur, i made it clear that in developing the european gigabit society, we have to ensure high technological standards, promote inclusion, boost the economy and the capacity to generate value and jobs. we have an opportunity to reposition the european union in the world as a technologically leading and inclusive project and we cannot afford to waste it.
mr president, technological change is an important engine of development. however, its actual results depend on the mode of production which characterizes the society in which this change takes place. it can be used to improve the living conditions of workers and peoples, or it can be used to increase exploitation of workers, inequalities and social injustices. under the conditions of capitalist globalisation, it is the second hypothesis that prevails. the digitisation of industry, part of what some call the 'fourth industrial revolution', combines innovation and the increasing automation of production processes with global technology platforms based on networks of digital communication infrastructures. workers cannot be left out of these processes. they should benefit from the changes in the salary and benefits plan. these changes must not be used as a pretext for imposing social regression. it should not be overlooked that, in the context of the maintenance of the neoliberal policies in force, these processes tend to deepen social and national inequalities.
the concrete results of technological change depend on the mode of production which characterizes the society in which this change operates. it can be used to improve the living conditions of workers and peoples, or it can be used to increase exploitation of workers, inequalities and social injustices. under the conditions of capitalist globalisation, it is the second hypothesis that prevails. the digitisation of industry, part of what some call the fourth industrial revolution, combines innovation and the increasing automation of production processes with global technology platforms based on digital communication networks and infrastructures. workers cannot be left out of these processes. they should benefit from the changes in pay and benefits. these changes must not be used as a pretext for imposing social regression. it should not be overlooked that, in the context of the maintenance of the neoliberal policies in force, these processes tend to deepen social and national inequalities.
madam president, freedom of the press and information, together with freedom of expression, are inalienable values of democracies and therefore a cornerstone of the european treaties. they enable citizens to exercise their right to be informed, to scrutinize and to judge the actions of those who wield power and influence. the european court of human rights itself has established the positive obligation of states to guarantee media pluralism. the concentration of media control in the czech republic is therefore a matter for the european institutions and not just, as the oligarch andrej babis argues, an internal matter for the czech republic. it is worrying that babis, as a media owner, leader of a political party and owner of one of the country's leading business conglomerates, tries to influence the journalistic content of the publications he controls. even if he did not intervene, his power could induce self-censorship by journalists. the concentration of media and the buying by opaque economic powers is a phenomenon which has been occurring in several member states, including my own, portugal. in 2013, this parliament adopted a resolution on the general framework for media freedom in the european union, calling for robust standards of control and transparency of media owners. we have asked the commission for measures to support the independence of the media and regulatory agencies, including a minimum legislative framework for all member states, but little or nothing has been done and this debate is therefore all the more relevant. the media can't be a business like any other. its integrity and public utility are directly related to the diversity and plurality of information, which need special protection, especially in times when strategies of hybrid warfare and electoral interference are based on the dissemination of false or biased news. we must ensure that this special protection is guaranteed by the european union and our democracies.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of the press is a pillar of the rule of law. it's a basic right. we enshrined it in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and we did so because a true democracy needs informed citizens who can scrutinise their representatives. now, without freedom of the press, that is not possible. unfortunately, in recent times we have been faced with frequent and unthinkable violations of this fundamental right. the so-called fake news has gained a worrying dimension and today contaminates much of the public space, with far-reaching consequences and motivations often of a geo-strategic nature. fake news is a virus that is now infecting the freedom of the press. freedom of the press is also often curtailed by the deliberate action of governments. look at the measures that have been passed by the governments of erdogan in turkey, maduro in venezuela, putin in russia, and all the countries that persecute journalists and shut down newspapers, radio, television and online public debate spaces. many journalists pay the price of freedom and some even with their lives. the concentration of the media in one person, especially a political agent with governmental ambitions, is also a cause for concern, and this is precisely what is happening in the czech republic. it seems clear to me that the use of the media for political gain puts press freedom at risk. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear. the essential thing here today is to reaffirm that freedom of the press is written into our political dna, that it is the cornerstone of our democracies and a fundamental right of european citizens. and above all, when it is threatened, it is our duty to defend it and there is no babiš in the czech republic, erdogan, maduro, putin or fake news that should divert us from this plan.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner nordström, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by congratulating mrs kaufmann on her excellent work and i know that this is also the view of my colleague petri sarvamaa, who was the shadow rapporteur for the epp. in 1995, when we established a standard visa, we incorporated into the community sphere a policy initially developed by the states party to the schengen agreement. their uniformisation was and remains essential in an area of free movement. a visa is an authorization to legally cross an external border and entitles its holder to stay in our territory. for the schengen area, the external border, although legally a national border, is in practice a european border. it is therefore a european policy to guarantee their authenticity and security. it has to be one of our priorities. schengen requires a set of european policies that can ensure its proper functioning and ensure mutual trust between its member states. schengen is the management of external borders, it is the common asylum policy, it is the visa policy, it is the return policy, it is police cooperation, it is judicial cooperation and it is the schengen information system. it is also interesting that the added value of this area has led ireland, which is not a schengen state, to want to take part in the adoption of this regulation. this is also a sign of the times, where countries that sometimes make the speech that it is better to be outside, when confronted with the concrete benefits, prefer to be an integral part and to be inside. the importance of this regulation also tends to be seen in the light of the fight against crime and illegal immigration. in recent years, we have seen a rise in visa counterfeiting, which is putting our border security at risk. despite this, and despite the fact that it was consensual and necessary, the file was dragged through the legal services, the commission and the council. thanks to the negotiating team in this house, thanks to mrs kaufmann once again, and thanks to the support of the maltese presidency and also of the commissioner, this regulation was finally adopted. i welcome this result. our borders are safer.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report by mrs joëlle bergeron raises a question about one of the fundamental dimensions of solidarity, namely the guarantee to all citizens of the conditions for a dignified end to life. it is on this point of solidarity that i want to speak now. solidarity is today a political imperative of the modern states of law, perhaps their most impressive social mark. it does not stem from a religious impulse, from fear or love of a deity on the part of other human beings, but is rather an emanation of human dignity which imposes itself as a political requirement on society as a whole, that is, on the state itself. solidarity as an ethical and political imperative is an achievement of the enlightenment, it is one of the most emblematic syntheses of the values of the european renaissance and the enlightenment. unfortunately, we see it being politically devalued almost everywhere, either by passing on to private institutions the obligations it imposes on the states, or by simply ignoring them. it is therefore necessary, indeed imperative, to strengthen the political content of solidarity by means of normative measures to make it effective in the lives of the most vulnerable citizens of the european union, especially the elderly. political decisions are therefore needed to ensure that our fellow citizens can fully exercise one of the fundamental rights of the union: the right to move about freely. only in this way will another value of the charter of fundamental rights of europe be valued: citizenship. i am therefore, to quote a well-known phrase, asking parliament and the commission to take this small political and regulatory step, which will be a giant step in the lives of millions of our fellow citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution in recognition of the fact that the european union should take a leading position in the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. adopted by the un in september 2015, it constitutes an ambitious framework for achieving sustainable development and eradicating poverty. in this decision, the fact that we are living in a time of increasing uncertainty and ambiguity, which leaves a lot to be desired about the future of some of the consensus already reached on energy and climate objectives, which aims at a green, sustainable economy, giving priority to the fight against climate change. the world has changed since the last european consensus on development was adopted in 2005. today we are faced with demographic changes worldwide, associated with economic, social and environmental changes, and the levels of poverty and inequality, as well as their geographical distribution, have changed. this new consensus aims to find lasting solutions to complex global challenges and the european union and its member states should be firmly committed to implementing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, promoting the universal values of democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights for all.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. a program like this is a great program. it can, however, be improved further in its governance. firstly, the commission proposes that the financial contribution be mainly applied to activities of high levels of technological maturity in the form of a limited number of pilot projects. it is important to go further: to encompass diversity of ideas and projects, low and high technology levels of preparedness, to include forms of research driven by curiosity and practice-based research. secondly, under the terms of the programme, participation in prima is open to any member state and any country associated to horizon 2020, as well as to third countries. and very well! however, the selection of projects must be made by a consortium of the states contributing to the prima budget. only in this way can we ensure that the strategic priorities of these states are safeguarded. we have therefore, commissioner, madam rapporteur, an excellent programme and with these amendments it will be even better. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. thank you very much for asking. it is a clear question indeed, and the integrated nature of this project, involving not only the researchers on the southern edge of the mediterranean but also those on the other edge and the concrete users of this project - the universities, the research centres, the global consortium for solving the problem and the awareness of the problem, is the best way to be able to put the resources at our disposal to good use.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the document she has presented to us. it is true that we all agree on the importance of the report that is presented and the way it talks about horizon 2020, but there is a big difference between thinking it is important and believing it is really important. there are many important things that have happened in recent years and i think that of the good news of the european union, horizon 2020 is probably the best. there's not that many more we can grab. however, where there were cuts was also in horizon 2020. it is therefore important to reinforce investment. what we've seen happen in the last few years cannot happen. it's just that every time you need money for something, whatever it is, where do you go to get it? to the horizon 2020 we come here to the house and say that it is very important to invest in research; next, we need money for something else, and what do we say? we're taking money out of the investigation. it can't be. to link research and innovation, we really need to have quality public investment. there's no other way. similarly, we cannot sacrifice research, because we will never have real innovation if we kill basic research, quality research, and so we have to keep betting. we cannot treat researchers badly, we must give them work with rights: those who have been working for a long time and young researchers who need a guarantee for the future. we need to have more equality between men and women and we need to invest more in small and medium-sized enterprises. a lot has gone well, but there is still a long way to go, and i sincerely hope that investment, being public, will increase in the next framework programme and that if you do not go to horizon 2020 every time you need it, whatever it is.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by highlighting the excellent work of the rapporteur, the reflection she has provided. horizon 2020 is a key programme to give the european union a global voice and the research process, when it is open and strong, transversely values the whole of society, mobilises the best available resources and allows us to attract high-quality people and teams to our territory. it is therefore necessary to safeguard the financial basis of the programme, the 120 billion for the framework programme, and to apply it in accordance with the basic principles of excellence, openness, impact on the situation of enterprises, including smes, employment and the quality of life of citizens. we must also communicate, increasingly better, what we achieve and what we do for people's daily lives. i would also like to point out and congratulate the commissioner on his excellent work and to point out, as he has always said, that excellence must be combined with openness and the concrete impact of projects. it must embody ambition, risk-taking, the ability to open up new avenues for the affirmation of european science, knowledge and technology.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy has been and is an aid to convergence and one of the highest forms of european solidarity. it has reduced asymmetries and inequalities, but it has also been able to diagnose the specific needs of each region and what remains to be done. that is why cohesion policy is a place close to the citizens, why it has been a valuable aid during times of crisis and austerity. it was european aid that gave them hope and continues to give hope. that is what politics is all about, helping those who need it most, and that is the only way we can keep this union going. cohesion policy serves this purpose. it should be clear that no member, i think, is in favour of penalizing european funds, but this should be discussed elsewhere, at another time, and it should be the subject of open and frank reflection by all of us. so we shall talk about that at another time because that is not the subject we are discussing today and it is also important to give a signal to local and national authorities of their role in disseminating european investment. after 2020, may we be able to maintain our commitment to economic, social and territorial cohesion and the strengthening of european citizenship. that in 2020 there is more and better intervention in the fight against unemployment, better integration of migrants and that there is more investment in small and medium-sized enterprises and that we keep fighting for the health of our planet. sustainability, integration and solidarity are the hallmarks of this union.
mr president, commissioner, the cohesion strategy pursued for many years by generations of europeans requires continuation and, preferably, intensification. this human and financial investment is a decisive contribution to the union's competitiveness and to the quality of life of millions of europeans. they have been decisive for the socioeconomic convergence of the outermost regions with the european average, which includes the azores, where i come from. the same goes for the proposal for specific support for natural disasters. living on a volcanic island in the middle of the atlantic ocean, as i do, is a positive experience, but it is subject to natural hazards. the measures proposed here will increase our security and it is in this planned and voluntary solidarity that i find one of the real reasons for being in the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear rapporteur, honourable members, we have been making tangible progress in our efforts to improve fisheries governance in the mediterranean. in 2016 we launched the catania process and this highlights the urgency in addressing precarious situations for our fisheries. it also made clear the need to join efforts across the region and to set in motion a coherent plan of action for the next ten years. i think mr affronte just said that we cannot think about the solution for the mediterranean without the third countries, and i think that is really on—spot. to do this, we organised a ministerial conference in march in valletta and during this the ministers from 13 countries around the mediterranean signed the malta medfish4ever declaration. this is a declaration that stresses environmental sustainability, social cohesion and viable economic perspectives. we now have an action plan. this provides a clear set of objectives and targets, against which we can measure our progress. it addresses critical fisheries—related issues including data collection and scientific evaluation, the eco—system—based approaches in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and support for small—scale fisheries. the plan also deals with pollution and transport and their impact on fishing resources. now, the plan is in place but we must translate our words into concrete actions at three levels: at eu level, at multilateral level and across eu and non—eu countries. at eu level we will continue to implement our common fisheries policy. this will require progress on multiannual plans. the plans, like the small pelagic fisheries in the adriatic will mark the first test on how genuine our commitments are. we are also working on a plan for demersal fisheries in the western mediterranean and we are cooperating with the member states on new national measures, in particular in the gulf of lion and the jabuka/pomo pit. at a multilateral level we will strive to make further progress in the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean at the plenary next october. this will include the adoption of a regional plan of action to fight illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. it will also involve the establishment of a pilot project of an international inspection scheme in the straits of sicily. last, we must continue to ensure solidarity with non—eu mediterranean countries. we will do this by supporting them in their structural reforms in fisheries, through the eu neighbourhood funding instruments. our joint political partnership has the power to create a healthy environment, a thriving blue economy and a sustainable fishing sector in the mediterranean. i am very pleased to see that the report by mr marco affronte is going in that same direction. we would like to congratulate the european parliament for this initiative. we see that your report is addressing issues that are also important to the commission: the role of small-scale fishing, measures for third countries, socio-economic aspects, the need for better data and science-based allocation of fishing opportunities and impact of other human activities. the majority of the issues highlighted in your report are directly addressed in the medfish4ever declaration. both are in the interest of fishermen and citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, the socioeconomic situation of the mediterranean fisheries, which are mainly small-scale, has been deteriorating due to reduced yields, depreciation of fish stocks, restrictions on fishing for certain species, and higher fuel costs, which have contributed, among other things, to an increase in fishing effort, with the inevitable increase in risk for fishermen. measures are needed to safeguard small-scale fisheries by involving fishermen and their associations and unions in decision-making processes, promoting measures, including the channelling of european funds, for the renewal and modernisation of fleets, improving working conditions, contributing to economic and environmental sustainability, including through the reduction of fishing effort. measures that give value to work and labour regulation, incomes, social protection, recruitment of young people and vocational training, as well as the role of women in fisheries, who represent 12% of the workforce in the sector. measures are required to substantially and objectively improve safety with a view to reducing high accident rates.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr marco affronte. inherent in the definition of sustainable development is the need not to hierarchise the three pillars that underpin it. so environment, economy and society have to be equated in sync. in the mediterranean fisheries, the environmental pillar has been ignored for too long technical measures such as operating times or mesh sizes have been tested for years without success. now is the time to act and protect the environmental pillar that i think is the weakest of this triad. it is absolutely necessary to respect a set of restricted reserve areas and spring recovery areas and to impose a quota system for the most important fish species in the mediterranean. at present, sea bass is the only good-conditioned marine resource in the mediterranean, and the only one with quotas in place. the failure to implement a quota system as a matter of urgency will be a huge liability and will guarantee the bankruptcy of the fishermen.
mr president, commissioner, fishermen are facing a very serious economic crisis and the european commission must create measures and mechanisms to protect fishermen's income. and i think that this is done in four dimensions: first, training, both in the arts and in the science of fish farming. secondly, it also implies a commitment to strengthening the position of fishermen in the value chain. it is unacceptable that fishermen bring home pennies and that large-scale distribution has large profit margins and that consumers pay fortunes for the fish they consume. and this implies, and this is my third point, the need for us to strengthen even more the producer organizations. and finally, fourthly, we must invest in the strengthening and creation of a compensation fund for wages when fishing is prohibited. i am not referring to the existing biological stops, but to the adverse climatic conditions. that is fundamental. i am also referring to environmental disasters and to contamination by biotoxins. if these measures are implemented, we will have more social justice in fisheries too.
mr president, commissioner, the le grip report has the great merit of bringing to the fore the problem of the pension gap between men and women in the european union. despite the increase in women's participation in the labour market in recent decades and the reduction of gender pay gaps, gender gaps in the labour market and in domestic activities are still large. the fact that, on average, women's pensions in the european union are 38% lower than men's pensions, in addition to obviously increasing the risk of poverty for older women, represents an accumulation of gender imbalances and inequalities throughout working life. in addition to lower wages, it is women who see their career path and thus the continuity of their contributions more often interrupted, either because they have more family responsibilities or because they are the ones who perform more informal and precarious work. gender equality and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the european union. reducing the gender gap in pensions requires changing the patriarchal model of social protection systems designed 70 years ago and preventing and combating the double exclusion that affects women in working life and later in the social protection to which they are entitled in old age.
mr president, the disparity in the value of pensions between men and women has objective causes. the systematic discrimination against women throughout their working lives, in maternity, in access to work and in wage values, and the increased vulnerability to precarious work and poverty, are added to the consequences of the austerity and right-wing policies which impose a brutal attack on social and labour rights throughout europe and in portugal. the fight against low-wage policies, the principle of equal pay for equal work, the promotion of collective bargaining, the fight against precariousness, the protection of maternity, the creation of public networks of care for children and the elderly, the full support of a public, universal and solidarity-based social security system as the only guarantee of the right to a decent retirement pension are just some of the urgent measures needed to reverse these disparities in the future. it is urgent to implement the pension update and to reject any link between the increase in average life expectancy and retirement age.
mr president, last week in new york the united nations conference on the oceans took place, and i had the honour of participating in it as head of the european parliament delegation. it was a real turning point in the recognition that the ocean, our ocean, is crucial to the future and to humanity in all its diversity. this conference aimed to support the creation of conditions for the implementation of the 14th un sustainable development goal, dedicated to the sustainability of the oceans. the european parliament delegation participated in several bilateral meetings with representatives of the world bank, the united nations environment programme, the convention on biological diversity and the delegations of the usa, china and brazil, in the framework of improving coordination and cooperation between international organisations and creating partnerships in the field of oceans. 193 un member states have approved by acclamation the declaration 'our ocean, our future: call for action', which commits all countries to work towards the sustainability of the oceans. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has made important commitments in the political recognition of the importance of conserving marine resources and ecosystems. the urgent task now is to act in defence of the oceans and to implement a new and ambitious international ocean governance.
the european union cannot hesitate to take the lead in the process of harmonisation and combating climate change. the report under discussion today reinforces the european union's commitment to the goals of the paris agreement and is given added importance by the decision taken by the us administration to withdraw the united states from the agreement. this regulation sets binding greenhouse gas emission targets for member states covering sectors of the economy not covered by the ets. these sectors account for almost 60% of total emissions in the eu in 2014 and the setting of national targets was done with a fair process. this is a shift that will provide opportunities for jobs, growth and investment for europe, while mitigating climate change and requiring changes in behaviour, business incentives and investment. that is why it is essential that the options contained in this report can have broad support in this parliament. we have made a clear choice to lead the transition to a sustainable economy and society. to hesitate in the current global context could mean to lose everything.
mr president, commissioner, the paris agreement provides that the parties take measures to conserve and, if necessary, to strengthen sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases, including forests. this proposal is an integral part of the implementation of the european union's commitment under the paris agreement to reduce emissions across the economy. ladies and gentlemen, we are in a period of great uncertainty, of incomprehensible denial of the obvious effects of climate change by those who, like the united states, are the biggest contributors to emissions into the atmosphere. the union's top priority is to create a resilient energy union that prioritises energy efficiency and provides secure, sustainable energy at prices that are affordable for citizens, as well as to implement policies to reduce emissions and replace fossil fuels. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is our priority if we are to lead the way in meeting the paris commitments. i believe that only through ambitious climate action can we contribute to rescuing a planet that is sustainable for life in time. i would like to congratulate mr gerbrandy on this excellent commitment document and say that europe cannot now back down on the commitments it made in paris. europe now has a unique opportunity to show the world its leadership in this field.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, at a time of stalemate in which the deep crisis of this model of european union integration is all too evident, this reflection paper represents a real breakthrough. at a time when a thorough reflection on the role of economic and monetary union is needed in this long process of social and economic divergence, this document actually proposes to examine in depth all the factors which have been at the root of this divergence. in my city of aveiro, workers who are fighting for their rights and are on strike today are feeling the effects of this neoliberal european union dominated by the multinationals. europe does not need a finance minister. it will not be a single representation in the imf that will solve the problems of unemployment and economic dependence. budgetary capacity, with all the associated constraints, will only reinforce the oppressive character of the euro area and limit the ability of member states to respond to its problems in accordance with their models and in accordance with the will of their people. it is now clear that the eurozone is a political project designed to impose a neoliberal agenda, and therefore what is needed is not its strengthening but rather its dissolution in a process that includes the recovery of the monetary sovereignty of the member states and the renegotiation of public debts, the increase of which cannot but be associated with the euro and its economic governance.
madam president, the european union can only have a future if the eurozone becomes an area delivering prosperity and upward convergence for all its member states and for all the other states which are planning to join. we need to stop this machine for divergences which are not only economic; they are social and political. so we welcome the commission’s proposal with a plan which, finally, recognises that the problems of the eurozone are not only financial stability, but also growth, job creation and upward economic and social convergence. of course, member states do need to engage in an effort of their own in reforms and investments in the framework of the european semester. but exactly because they are confined by a common fiscal discipline, they must also count on an instrument to support this upward convergence. we hope that this instrument will be created in the upcoming next budgetary framework. we need to have it as soon as possible, otherwise we cannot reverse this logic of divergence. beyond that, of course, we need to equip the eurozone with the proper fiscal capacity and this fiscal capacity should be based on democratic governance. the proposal of having a minister of finance, who is also a vice-president of the european commission makes sense from our viewpoint, but this will suppose full accountability before the european parliament. the proposal coming now from the commission to have an agreement involving parliament, the commission and the council to discuss this makes sense and we are available to do so.
mr president, commissioner, you are a doctor and therefore you will understand what i am about to say. glyphosate is the most widely used herbicide in the world, with 76% of its use worldwide in agriculture, forestry, urban and garden applications. glyphosate and its residues have been detected in water, soil, food and the human body. the who has classified this herbicide as a probable human carcinogen and a proven carcinogen in laboratory animals. glyphosate also has a negative effect on the oceans, where everything depends on the phytoplankton at the top of the food chain. the stop glyphosate initiative aims to put pressure on the commission with two objectives: to ensure the transparency and independence of processes in the reuse of pesticides and to impose mandatory deadlines for the progressive reduction of the use of all pesticides. the authorisation process for glyphosate in the union has been a muddy one, with conflicting studies, secret documents and conflicts of interest revealed, which is why we need a study based on all available scientific data regarding the carcinogenicity of glyphosate as well as possible endocrine disrupting properties. under the precautionary principle, they will continue to press the commission not to renew the authorisation of glyphosate in the light of the overriding public interest of protecting the environment and public health.
mr president, with kabila's forced retention of power, backed up by the controversial decision of the constitutional court, violence has returned to the democratic republic of congo and we are witnessing a deterioration in living conditions and security in the country. since 2016, more than one million people have been forced to leave their homes. this number is greater than the number of refugees in syria. all this instability has created a widespread security crisis. at the same time, the ebola outbreak has returned to congo, spreading terror and fear of contagion from this deadly disease that has struck some african countries in the recent past. the international community, and particularly the european union, must play a leading and strong role in defending the saint sylvestre agreement, signed in december 2016 under the auspices of the bishops, allowing the november elections to take place under conditions that allow for a free, transparent and incident-free electoral process. we must be vigilant not to be complicit, by omission, in another humanitarian crisis in africa.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the dispute over control of the country's immense natural resources and ethnic violence in the democratic republic of congo have generated one of the worst humanitarian crises in our recent history, which we cannot ignore. the balance sheet is dramatic: more than 5 000 000 dead, 3 700 000 internally displaced, overcrowded refugee camps and hundreds of thousands of people suffering from hunger, disease and epidemics, including, now, the return of the scourge of ebola. women and children are, as in most conflicts, the main victims of the terror of daily life in that country. rape and murder of women became commonplace. half a million children under five suffer from acute malnutrition and thousands of other children sacrifice their childhood by becoming child soldiers. president joseph kabila's inaction and silence in the face of these atrocities against his own people and the increase in kidnappings and attacks on aid workers and caravans is unacceptable. the european union must therefore continue to apply sanctions against those responsible for these serious human rights violations, as the commissioner has also mentioned, and for the sabotage of the democratic process in the democratic republic of congo, and call on president kabila to speed up the implementation of his promise and to call for presidential elections by the end of this year, ensuring that the electoral process is free, transparent and credible.
the violations of humanitarian law and war crimes that mark the civil war in yemen, one of the poorest countries in the world, are staggering. hunger, malnutrition, coupled with indiscriminate air raids, kill indiscriminately, especially children. the hospitals, destroyed and where nothing comes, are unable to provide basic services. violence of all kinds, including sexual violence, is rampant on the streets. the consequences are far from confined to the borders of yemen. while rebel forces are fighting in the north, the international community is divided over the proxy war between iran and saudi arabia, with the complicity of the united states and some eu member states, notably the united kingdom and france. terrorist organizations such as aqap and daesh are rubbing their hands together, gaining territory in the south of the country and intensifying attacks. the solution to the conflict must be political, not military. international pressure for a solution in which all parties involved agree must exist, it cannot be delayed. it's our safety that's at stake, too.
madam president, commissioner, in yemen 14 million people are starving and 3 million yemenis are internally displaced as a result of the civil war which has been raging since march 2015 between forces loyal to the government of president mansur hadi and the houthi rebels. in the poorest arab nation in the world, this war has skyrocketed the child malnutrition rate by 200 percent and two-thirds of the population depend on foreign aid to survive. the terrible humanitarian crisis is compounded by the growing presence of daesh and al-qaeda affiliates in the south and southwest of the country, who are taking advantage of the chaotic situation to foment terrorism throughout the region. the european union should continue to support the return of negotiations to yemen and work with the united nations, both by supporting the security council decision to extend the current sanctions regime on yemen and by maintaining its financial commitments for humanitarian aid at a time when the refugee agency has received only 1% of the amounts requested from international donors to help vulnerable people this year. as the european union's ambassador to yemen, mrs antonia calvo, has said, we cannot allow sana'a to become another aleppo.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the guidelines of the european union on human rights which we are discussing here today do not, as we know, have, nor could they have, a legally binding character. however, the european union, having regard primarily to its own founding values, has a moral obligation to strive for their implementation and to create the conditions so that, with its political influence and negotiating capacity, they can be respected and implemented in a variety of situations. we know that's not always the case. we see attacks on freedom of expression with unprecedented frequency all over the world, from the least serious to those that can only be considered as absolutely unacceptable, such as the murders of journalists that have occurred in mexico or the detention and prosecution of dozens of members of the media that have occurred in a neighboring country like turkey. it is essential that the european union continues to use all the instruments at its disposal to combat these and other attacks on freedom of expression, and i believe that in this area we have a fundamental instrument in the trade agreements we have with various countries in the world.
the european union needs to do much more to protect journalists and bloggers around the world and to pressure other countries to reduce the digital divide and facilitate access to information and communication, including uncontrolled access to the internet. we need to criticize and denounce at the highest level governments like those in turkey, azerbaijan, belarus, ethiopia, egypt, china, where bloggers and journalists are imprisoned and online space is censored. for example, the angolan regime, in addition to repressing and intimidating journalists and bloggers, has just blocked the broadcast of portuguese television channels, sic and sic notícias, for daring to organize reports and debates on human rights in that country. many of these repressive regimes import electronic mass surveillance equipment from european companies. the proliferation of surveillance monitoring, censorship and filtering technologies poses a growing threat to human rights, democracy and anti-corruption activists and defenders. our member states and our companies must be held accountable for what they do and for what they allow to be done.
(inaudible) version just suffered a big blow: the 27 are, in fact, more united in implementing the roadmap adopted in rome. and, once and for all, the european union needs to assert itself as a political entity and a strong pillar of the multilateral system. so the defence package just presented by the commission is certainly a very important move, and we need to be prepared to have that discussion about the package, but we know that lasting peace also depends a lot on permanent systemic action for development worldwide, starting with africa. we know this very well. we also need to be prepared to open a new generation of trade agreements, pushing for sustainable development all over the world. at the same time, we also need to build much more powerful instruments to cope with citizens’ concerns. there is a lot of hard work to be done. we have just now the revision of the european fund for strategic investments and we need to make sure that this fund will become more powerful, pushing for real, additional, strategic investment projects. we need to make sure that the upcoming pillar of social rights will prepare the labour market in europe to provide better jobs, particularly for young people, and we need to make sure that our eurozone will start working for real convergence. so this is a very demanding internal agenda.
in writing. other in 2015, in the eu28, a recent unicef report reported that 27% of children and young people, 25.3 million, live in poverty. the eu's austerity policies have forced member states to cut social benefits and supports for families and children and earnings-replacement benefits when they were needed most. right-wing and austerity policies have imposed cuts in health, education, and other public services, while imposing wage cuts, unemployment, degradation of labor relations, increasing inequalities and poverty. it is the eu's policies of exploitation and misery that are fuelling the reality that cannot be hidden today in countless countries: thousands of children in schools who are starving, basic needs such as clothing, housing and health care that are not met, children who are victims of abandonment and school failure, child labour, begging, youth prostitution, abandonment. unfortunately, none of these issues will be discussed at the next council. the eu has no choice but to dissolve itself to make way for a new model of cooperation.
madam president, the fact that donald trump has abandoned the paris agreement is bad news for all of us, but if we agree to this, we must be consistent and that is why i want to leave an appeal here. a few days ago we voted in the itre committee on parliament's position on the lulucf dossier and the forestry lobby won. this first vote we have taken in parliament not only calls into question the paris agreement, but also european legislation itself on combating climate change. that is why i call on this parliament, the european commission and the council to implement the paris agreement properly, without any trickery in accounting for emissions and without any hypocrisy. we cannot just count the trees that are planted and ignore the ones that are cut down. there's still time to mend the hand. i appeal to this parliament, to the council and to the commission. lulucf should be a dossier that transposes the paris agreement and not one that takes us backwards on climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo because i believe that the european union cannot but continue to apply sanctions against those responsible for serious human rights violations and the sabotage of the democratic process in the democratic republic of the congo. the truth is that president joseph de kabila's inaction and silence in the face of these atrocities against his own people and the increase in kidnappings and attacks on aid workers and caravans is unacceptable. the motion for a resolution we have just voted on today is another strong appeal to president kabila to respect the agreement reached with the mediation of the catholic church and call for presidential elections by the end of this year, thus ensuring the necessary conditions for these elections to be free, transparent and credible.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union, as a customer of 60% of bangladesh's garment exports, has an increased responsibility towards bangladesh in promoting ethical forms of sustainable production and consumption. the european union should not forget that the textile sector is one of the economic and social pillars of that country, directly employing four million workers, and should call on companies to adopt codes of conduct which effectively guarantee the social and labour rights of their workers, including the right to decent and fair wages and safety conditions, urge the bangladeshi authorities to comply with their international obligations on freedom of association and support all efforts by the united nations to create a binding treaty clarifying the obligations of companies in the field of human rights. last 24 april marked the fourth anniversary of the rana plaza, the terrible death of those 1,138 people, following the collapse of the sewing workshops in which they worked. it has shown the world the hidden face of the outsourcing of the big western textile brands and made it impossible for us to continue to pretend to ignore the semi-slave conditions of millions of bangladeshi textile workers. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that it is to the memory of these dead and of all those who die every year in similar conditions that we must pay tribute and act in defence of their rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, putin has returned to the cold war: he is poisoning our public opinion and militarizing the border. trump makes unpredictable a relationship that should be indestructible. in the face of uncertainty, populism has gained support, but has been defeated: from the netherlands to austria, through the firm choice of the french and even in the last british elections. why would you do that? as robert schuman, one of our founding fathers, said, quoted by rosa esterás, europe is made of 'concrete achievements'. and our europe is more than an economic construct. it's a citizenship project. europe is the erasmus programme, which celebrated its 30th anniversary yesterday: a whole generation that has reinforced the idea of its shared citizenship. europe is the paris agreement, which is proof of the union's commitment to the common future of humanity. europe is schengen: free movement transforms a handful of countries into a sea of opportunities for hundreds of millions of people. europe is horizon 2020: the biggest programme supporting science and innovation and also the use of technology to save lives, as it does with e-call. this is the europe i believe in: the europe of the people, the europe of the citizens. to defend it we need not refoundation but affirmation. europe is not a choice or an alternative. europe is our circumstance. the circumstances of our commitment to fundamental rights, to peace and to prosperity. it is a compromise which is worth debating and which is important to affirm, but above all which it is urgent to defend.
mr president, mr commissioner, despite the most positive news of recent times, let us not be under any illusions: the european project is still experiencing a serious crisis of results, the causes of which are well known. on the one hand, there are the structural weaknesses in the construction of the euro and, on the other, an austerity policy which was the wrong response to the crisis. these are the root causes of the growing divergence which undermines the foundations of the european project. but the crisis of the european project is essentially a crisis of values, which begins with the value of solidarity. if the value of solidarity does not again strike at the heart of the european ideal, then there will be no solution to any of our problems. the citizens are telling us in the last elections that they want to give the european project a new chance. for this opportunity can only be seized by a response of solidarity which confronts our problems in common and which really allows us to regain the confidence of the european citizens.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr langen, you are the chairman of the panama papers commission. at my request, this committee has summoned the portuguese secretary of state, rocha andrade, to brussels. at that hearing, the secretary of state did not clarify a secret agreement to remove panama from the blacklist and confessed that he had not asked for an opinion from the tax authority to remove the offshore tax havens of jersey, man and uruguay from the blacklist. it was mainly after this omission that it became known in portugal that there was a negative opinion on the removal of uruguay from the national blacklist. that is to say, this is a very important fact, a clarification that was not given, that was denied to the committee by the portuguese secretary of state, rocha andrade. i have already asked again for the portuguese secretary of state, rocha andrade, to attend the panama papers commission's mission to portugal. as chairman of the panama papers commission, i ask you whether or not you consider these new findings important. i personally think they're very important.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, i think that three points need to be made in this connection. the first is that what has been going on in malta for a long time is shameful and therefore, in particular, the way it has come to light through the panama papers shows that we cannot maintain, in the european union, this type of regulation which allows for less transparent manoeuvres. secondly, i should say that it is not just malta and therefore we have to fight this tax competition at the level of the whole european union and therefore tax harmonization is a priority because there are many other places that lend themselves to this type of less transparent practices. and finally, i would like to say that i fully endorse the call or the manifesto of my colleague, mr nuno melo, when portugal, in a totally illegal way, removed the isle of man, jersey and uruguay from the offshore blacklist. so i also wanted to take note of this because this is supposed to be investigated by the panama papers commission.
mr president, it is not normal for a member of a government of a state to withhold relevant information from a committee of inquiry of the european parliament, but that is what the portuguese secretary of state rocha andrade did. he didn't explain a secret agreement to take panama off the blacklist at a time when it was part of a government. it admitted not having asked for an opinion from the portuguese tax authority to remove three offshore companies from a blacklist against national legislation and omitted a negative opinion from the finance ministry which was against removing uruguay from the blacklist. that is why i asked the chairman of the committee of inquiry to give mr secretary of state rocha andrade a new opportunity on his next visit to portugal to clarify what he had omitted in the european parliament. it is important to know how, against the law, against the opinions of the finance, they are removed from the blacklist of offshore companies in portugal. i hope you'll be there for the next mission to portugal.
mr. president, will you keep keith schembri and konrad mizzi, both of whom were exposed in the panama papers, in your government? if so, he'll remain vulnerable, even though he won the election. and worse, it further undermines the reputation of your country, already shaken by its reliance on prosperity and development in financial services and e-gaming industries that serve organized crime and corrupt people around the world to launder money and evade taxes. the weekly expresso, published in my country, portugal, has just exposed how your country is being used by politically exposed people and businessmen to create front companies that serve as a platform to disguise the illicit origin of wealth and, from malta, invest in the european financial system, benefiting from copious tax benefits. the programme of selling citizenship and residence to individuals or companies, which is published in air malta's magazine, is an illustration of the blatant scheme of tax dumping and facilitating money laundering, in which malta is unfortunately not alone among the member states of the european union. i am afraid that in the report of the committee of inquiry into the panama papers malta does not stand out for working for european values, let alone socialist and labour values, but for being a european tax haven, among other things. we have to finish them off.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to welcome the honourable members here, including the commission, and say that the efsi, the european fund for strategic investments, is meeting its objectives in the investment and innovation window. it is in accordance with the plan drawn in the window of the small and medium-sized enterprises. it's going beyond even the best of predictions. the evidence is that over eur 190 000 000 has already been mobilised in the european union and over 420 000 small and mediumsized enterprises have been supported. it is in this way that we can create more jobs by promoting investment and at the same time increase the competitiveness of our economy, without ever forgetting social, economic and territorial cohesion. however, the european fund for strategic investments does not have the visibility it deserves in the light of the results it has produced. we need to improve communication and the visibility of this fund. the proof of success is that we are already negotiating the extension of the european fund for strategic investments to eur 500 000 000 and its extension until 2020. this does not mean that this fund, its implementation and, in particular, the implementation by a key player, the european investment bank, cannot and should not be improved. of course, knowing the projects that are not pre-selected, and here there is an attitude that can be discriminatory in law, but an attitude that is in the power of the european investment bank. it is important to know at least the projects that have not been entered into the system, the projects that have not been pre-selected. it is also important and essential to have a better geographical distribution, a better geographical balance, as far as projects are concerned. it is also important that there is sectoral diversification. small projects cannot be excluded from this fund, which requires the territories to be proactive, and the implementation of investment platforms is essential for this purpose, so that they can include small projects. the need for platforms for crossborder projects is also something that needs to be addressed. the digital union is important, the energy union is essential and in this way too, in addition to promoting the internal market, in addition to promoting interconnectivity and efficiency, we would be contributing to objectives for the whole of the european union. this fund is an additional fund, it is also a complementary fund, but it is important and the platforms are a means where this can be achieved, so that the funds, in particular those of cohesion policy, can be better used in conjunction with the structural funds. it is important that the additional aspect be reinforced and respected. it is also essential that the economic situation of less developed regions and regions in difficulty, for example, be taken into account in the selection of projects. finally, the advisory hub is essential to promote better projects to help structure investment platforms. i would like to conclude by thanking all the political groups, all the shadow rapporteurs, for the work they have done and, in particular, the rapporteur, mr udo bullmann. we have done work to promote growth, to promote and improve the competitiveness of the european union and to give citizens a better quality of life. and we're going to continue with that goal in mind.
mr president, commissioner, the european fund for strategic investments has undoubtedly made a positive contribution to overcoming the serious investment deficit in the european economy. the socialist group, which called for this instrument, is naturally pleased with the progress made. but after a year and a half, it must be acknowledged that the juncker plan, despite recent improvements, is still far short of what is needed and, above all, has been very badly distributed. the data available also reveal a very high geographical concentration which benefits the most powerful economies and is further aggravating the divergence within the european union. this is particularly true for infrastructure and innovation investment projects, which concentrate almost two thirds of investment support in three member states. this is a very serious problem which needs to be corrected by reviewing the rules, criteria and procedures. the juncker plan will only be a truly european project if it becomes an instrument for convergence in europe, and for that, much will still have to change.
madam president, the european fund for strategic investments is today the mirror of the contradictions within the european union: a contradiction between the major objectives proclaimed by the european commission and the council and the lack of financial means to promote economic recovery and territorial cohesion. so instead of a comprehensive public investment plan to stimulate private investment, we have moved forward with this juncker plan which fails to respond to the real challenges of the present and the future. nothing moves us against private investment. what we criticize is this promiscuity of these public-private partnerships where the private invests and keeps the profits, while the public takes the risks and the eventual losses. this plan has been in existence for just over a year. the available assessments confirm the criticisms we have made, both in the additional aspect and in the automatic geographical distribution. we are therefore faced with a direct transfer of public funds to the private sector, without any democratic control and whose impact on the investment deficit remains to be proven. in portugal, apart from the eib loan of eur 50 000 000 to the lisbon city council, we have nothing tangible on the ground. to extend this plan and extend its scope to other areas such as defense is to repeat the same mistake. the problem will not be solved by implementing yet another tight central direction in private investment choices. let us instead put our knowledge and experience to work in the service of a public investment plan, in the service of cohesion, development and the quality of life of the people.
the european fund for strategic investments is not, and cannot be, a substitute for cohesion policy and therefore has no geographical quotas. the european fund for strategic investments requires proactivity from its beneficiaries and proactivity from the territories. this does not mean that we should not seek territorial cohesion, geographical cohesion, the distribution of projects. you should look for it. and that is why parliament insists on the advisory hub, the advisory platform to help structure projects and projects of higher quality, to help create platforms, to also contribute to the complementarity that we want to see and that is being strengthened between this fund and the cohesion policy funds. we insist on the advisory hub, this advisory platform to achieve this goal. it is clear that this european fund for strategic investments has contributed to employment; it has also contributed to enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and also to entrepreneurship, innovation and the strengthening of the european union's competitiveness. it is also clear that the additional aspect needs to be strengthened and also the selection of projects must take into account the place where the project will be realised. the same project does not have the same economic impact in terms of job creation in a less developed region or in a more developed region. and that is why special attention must be paid to the less developed regions, although i would stress that this fund can never be confused with cohesion policy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. in 2015, in the eu28, 27% of children and young people, 25.3 million, live in poverty. the eu's austerity policies have forced member states to cut social benefits and earnings-replacement benefits when they were needed most. right-wing and austerity policies that have imposed cuts in health, education and other public services, while imposing wage cuts, unemployment, degradation of labour relations, increasing inequalities and poverty. it is your policies of exploitation and misery that are fuelling the reality that cannot be hidden today in countless countries: thousands of children marked in schools as hungry, basic needs such as clothing, housing and health care not being met, children who are victims of abandonment and school failure, child labour, begging, youth prostitution, abandonment. child poverty requires multidimensional responses, which are only possible in the context of a break with the policies of the european union: among others, increasing employment, combating precariousness, increasing wages and redistributing wealth, protecting family incomes, strengthening the social functions of the state and social benefits, guaranteeing free and quality public services such as health, education, but also public networks of day-care centres and pre-schools.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent economic crisis and the resulting austerity have hit families with children particularly hard, particularly the larger ones, single parents and immigrants, and children have been hit hard. between 2008 and 2014, child poverty increased in two-thirds of european countries, reaching the highest poverty rate among all age groups. in the european union, one in four children is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in my country, portugal, in 2015, a year after the end of the economic and financial assistance program, 536,000 children, almost 30 percent, were at risk. these children who grow up in poverty and in conditions of social exclusion are children whose rights have been stripped away. they are less likely to succeed in school, to enjoy good health or to get a job as adults, thus perpetuating a cycle of social exclusion across generations and making poverty a structural problem. if the europe 2020 strategy aims to lift at least 20 million people out of at-risk-of-poverty, tackling child poverty must be the number one priority of all european social policies. yesterday we celebrated in this house the 30th anniversary of the success of the generation... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said in my opening remarks, child poverty is a phenomenon with multiple causes which the commission and the member states are trying to address. i believe we have the right financial instruments and tools at european level and it is our responsibility to act together at local, regional, national and, of course, european level. i have just mentioned the european pillar of social rights. there is an ambition that proves that this commission puts the future of children at the heart of its priorities. i heard your concerns. i have also heard a shared feeling from all the ranks of this house, and i can assure you that we take everything that has been said here seriously. i said that we want to be concerned about the future of children, and that for a simple reason: because children are, by definition, the future of europe and we cannot, today less than ever, discriminate or leave it alone. we have no right to be indifferent. we all have the duties of the mobilisation.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me just recall the conclusions adopted by the council in march: reducing child poverty and breaking the cycle of poverty and social exclusion across generations require integrated strategies that combine prevention and support. these strategies should aim at supporting parents’ access to the labour market and enhancing preventive approaches through early intervention and increased support to families. thank you once more for this debate; it has shown again the multifaceted and persistent nature of this problem. further efforts are evidently needed from all sides involved.
in writing. at a time when scientific and technological development is reaching unprecedented levels, child poverty is one of the most revolting expressions of the inability of the dominant economic and social formation on a global scale capitalism to meet the most basic human needs, despite the means at its disposal. a recent unicef study stated that social inequalities have deepened with the crisis and have particularly affected children, concluding that there is an absolute need to protect family incomes through social policies. in 2015, 25.3 million children and young people lived in poverty in the eu28. eu policies have forced member states to cut social benefits and supports for families and children and earnings-replacement benefits when they were needed most. cuts in health care, education, and other public services. wage cuts, unemployment, degradation of labour relations, increasing inequalities and poverty. the result: hunger in schools, basic needs such as clothing, housing and health care not met, children victims of abandonment and school failure, child labor, begging, youth prostitution. we need answers that imply a break with eu policies. the fight against precariousness, wage increases, redistribution of wealth, strengthening of the social functions of the state, free and quality public services.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission agrees with parliament that investment in ports is crucial for our economy. state aid rules facilitate this process more than they hinder it. first of all, i would like to clarify an important point, namely that the state aid rules apply to aid which distorts competition. the commission's control is therefore limited to the economic activity of ports. the commission has neither the power nor the intention to prevent member states from compensating ports for the cost of tasks falling within the prerogatives of public authority. this applies for example to security or - in my portfolio sense - to activities related to customs controls or the police. such compensation is simply not state aid. however, even where the aid concerns economic activities, state aid rules can facilitate investment. the commission has recently defined clear criteria in the general block exemption regulation which allow member states to support certain investments in ports without seeking prior authorisation from the commission. the new regulation applies equally to all ports, whether they are under the control of private or public shareholders. it is based on the commission's well-established decision-making practice in the area of investment aid for ports. in all the cases it has dealt with to date, the commission has approved the state aid after verifying that it was limited to what was strictly necessary to generate the investment. the new regulation now provides member states with more clarity and also more flexibility when granting aid to ports. member states can make public investments of up to €150 million in maritime ports and up to €50 million in inland ports, with full legal certainty now. the public authorities may also finance the costs of dredging, as well as the access waterways. the port services regulation, which entered into force on 24 march, also introduced a requirement for financial transparency, which facilitated the inclusion of port investments in the general block exemption regulation i mentioned. you see, the commission has recently made it much easier to invest in ports under the state aid rules, but, as you know, it is in its role to ensure that there are fair conditions of competition, fair competition, in this economic sector which is very significant. the commission is therefore taking a closer look at corporate tax exemptions for public and private ports. these exemptions are very different from the investment aid which the commission facilitates. they are not targeted at financing certain investments or costs. they are not transparent, nor do they pursue a general interest objective, such as promoting mobility or multimodal transport. in fact, tax saving - and this is the problem - can be used for any type of activity. the commission considers that the exemptions are not appropriate either, since they are not limited to what is necessary to achieve the investment which is, again, the virtuous aspect of the port economy. on the contrary, corporation tax exemptions are proportional to profits. this has the paradoxical effect that small loss-making ports, those which are likely to need the most support, are deprived of any advantage, while large ports, which are the most profitable, benefit the most. it's a bit of a upside-down world, and it doesn't seem justified or fair. as guardian of the treaties, the commission must ensure that fair conditions of competition exist in the internal market. this is why we are looking at corporate tax exemptions for ports in more detail. of course, the commission treats all member states equally when applying state aid rules. the surveys, which started in 2013, showed that most member states subject the economic activities of their ports to the normal corporate tax regime. the commission is currently examining the tax system in several member states where this is not the case. these investigations are not all at the same stage. the reason for this is that the commission was not informed at the same time of the tax measures in the different member states. for example, it became aware of the tax provisions in the netherlands in a wider investigation into the tax exemption for public undertakings, some years before it became aware of similar measures applying to ports in other member states. the commission also concentrated its action on member states where competition problems warranted rapid action. she's made good progress in her investigations of the french and belgian ports. it also made progress in examining possible tax advantages for ports in other member states. no final decision has yet been taken in these cases. i am fully aware, as is my colleague margrethe vestager, whom i represent here, of the demands from this parliament that the commission disclose the member states' answers to our questions on ports and taxation. i would like to emphasise that the information provided by member states to the commission in the course of state aid investigations is protected and confidential, in particular until the commission has brought those investigations to a close. of course, the commission remains committed to explaining its approach to ports to this parliament, as i am doing today. it will inform the european parliament as soon as it has completed the further investigations into tax exemptions for ports. it is also prepared to explain to you how it facilitates investment in ports, as it has done in the general block exemption regulation and in many state aid cases. i therefore thank you for raising this question, which i believe will allow all the necessary clarifications to be made, at least all those that are possible at this stage, and i look forward, of course, with great interest to the debate that will follow.
the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is in the interests of competition and the liberalisation of the single market that the commission takes a leading role in intervening in decisions which are the responsibility of the member states alone, in defining what their sovereign development policies should be. more than the discussion of those decisions, what should motivate the debate are the consequences and the damage to the states that result from the privatisation of a sector strategic for the economy, port activity, or the harmful consequences of this competition in the national context, or the assault that you promote on the working conditions of port workers, in particular the dock, imposing precariousness, stealing rights and wages, while the companies operating there accumulate profits for the shareholders, which are not reinvested in the development of the country. the commission may well wish to take the role of a champion of justice: we know the responsibilities it has in imposing austerity policies, privatizations, the destruction of the productive machinery of countries and the assault on workers' rights.
madam president, on 29 may last, journalist afgan mukhtarli was abducted by unidentified men who were allegedly wearing georgian judicial police uniforms, and later released to the azerbaijani authorities. afgan mukhtarli was beaten and driven to the azerbaijani border with a large sum of money, with the sole purpose of allowing the azerbaijani authorities to prosecute him for illegal border crossing and smuggling. the evidence was manipulated to allow his arrest and conviction to a prison term of several years. the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that this practice of intimidation, repression and persecution is applied repeatedly in azerbaijan to the leaders of non-governmental organizations, human rights defenders, members of the opposition and journalists. the european parliament must condemn unequivocally the arbitrary detention of journalist afgan mukhtarli and demand his immediate release at a time when negotiations are under way to implement the new partnership between the european union and azerbaijan. i believe that the european union cannot make any pact with regimes which blatantly and repeatedly violate human rights and fundamental freedoms and must do everything possible to ensure that violations of international law are duly punished.
despite the release of human rights activists in azerbaijan over the past two years, the crackdown on independent media, attacks on freedom of expression have become increasingly brutal, including imprisonment, fabricated criminal charges, intimidating surveillance, torture and even death in state custody, as happened to blogger mehman huseynov last april. the refusal of the azerbaijani government to comply with judgments of the european court of human rights is also intolerable. we strongly condemn the abduction of afgan mukhtarli in georgia and his forcible transfer to a prison in azerbaijan. whoever was involved in this kidnapping must be investigated and brought to justice in georgia, a country that should welcome all asylum seekers fleeing political persecution in neighbouring countries such as azerbaijan, turkey or russia. afghan mukhtarli and all other political prisoners in azerbaijan should be released immediately and pending charges should be dropped. i hope that the requests of commissioner johannes hahn in baku will be met by the azerbaijani government now, not in months. here in this parliament there are many of us who will not trade human rights for oil or for bribes from the kleptocracy that oppresses the people of azerbaijan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three days ago the pakistani taimoor raza was sentenced to death for having published several comments on facebook in which he allegedly blasphemed the prophet muhammad and his wives. since the government approved the abolition of the moratorium on the execution of the death penalty three years ago, pakistan has become one of the countries currently applying it the most. but this is the first time she has come across a defendant for committing blasphemy on social media. this condemnation is also another sad example of the total instrumentalisation of the blasphemy law for the repression of religious minorities, for the silencing of intellectuals and human rights defenders and for the encouragement of violent revenge against the accused and against their families and defenders. the lynching of mashal khan two months ago by his university colleagues illustrates this well. the growing wave of repression in the country, including against humanitarian aid groups and non-governmental organisations, cannot be ignored by the european union at the next bilateral summit and should condition progress in the implementation of the strategic cooperation plan.
a muslim-majority democracy in the world's fourth most populous country, a diverse and open society: this is indonesia, which has strong relations with the european union. and so, as friends and partners of indonesia, we are concerned about the arrest of governor ahok for blasphemy and the growing incidents of intolerance against ethnic, religious and sexual minorities and the restriction of the freedoms of the majority of citizens, who are women, fomented from abroad by fundamentalist currents financed by saudi arabia and other gulf countries and from within by agents nostalgic for the militarist and repressive suharto regime. the resolution encourages president widodo and all indonesian authorities to continue and redouble their efforts to combat attempts to restrict democratic freedoms and respect for diversity which are inherent in the national motto 'bhineka tunggal ika' and the pancasila philosophy of religious tolerance. it is unacceptable that sharia law in aceh serves to oppress women and lgbti minorities and violate other basic freedoms hard won with democracy in indonesia. it is intolerable that medieval practices of public flogging are introduced under the pretext of a perverted pseudo-religious version that has nothing to do with the exemplaryly tolerant form of islam as practiced by the majority of muslims in indonesia.
i want to support this motion for a resolution because i think it is right that in the motion for a resolution we draw attention to the growing intolerance towards ethnic, religious and sexual minorities in indonesia and that we draw particular attention to the problems recently experienced by sexual minorities in indonesia. the peak, of course, is the situation in aceh province, where sharia law is in force and where homosexuality is a crime in itself and where the punishment of several dozen lashes for this form of sexual expression is already being carried out. it is therefore right that, in defence of the values of human rights and freedom and democracy, we should remind indonesia, our key partner, that this is not the way to treat minorities, and that we should constantly reiterate this in all our dealings with indonesia.
mr president, after the democratic opening which the fall of the authoritarian suharto regime represented in indonesia, we are now witnessing a worrying setback in the guarantee of human rights in what is the largest muslim country in the world. in this country, women are still placed in situations of extreme submission and half of the girls are victims of genital mutilation, homosexuals and lgbti people suffer all kinds of mistreatment, arbitrary arrests and detentions and the blasphemy law has been used as a pretext for violating the constitutional protection enjoyed by the various hindu, buddhist and, above all, christian religious minorities. the european union cannot but condemn these violations and make the negotiations for a free trade agreement with indonesia conditional on the fulfilment of the international human rights obligations binding on that country, including the reinstatement of the moratorium on the death penalty with a view to its abolition and respect for the very motto of the indonesian shield which we europeans also share: 'united in diversity'.
madam president, the worsening epidemics of hiv/aids, tuberculosis and hepatitis c in europe require the implementation of targeted, effective and innovative strategies based on three key words: prevention, diagnosis and treatment, which must be accompanied by consistent health education programmes. in the field of treatment, it is imperative to ensure access to innovative medicines. this requires addressing the interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies and defending the interests of patients and states. in portugal, active and systematic infection screening of injecting drug users and risk reduction education have resulted in a change in drug use patterns. portugal has been a pioneer on several fronts in the fight against drug addiction and associated communicable diseases, with the implementation of innovative legislation, structures and programmes that have produced results. an achievement that the years of the troika and their governments have come to call into question. in relation to new hiv infections, the number of late diagnoses, particularly among heterosexuals, is a cause for concern and there is a need to increase early diagnosis and reduce the undiagnosed fraction of those infected.
madam president, the capitalist mode of production is in constant conflict with the physical limits of a planet which, being generous in resources, is finite. the constant reduction in the life span of products is a manifestation of this confrontation. a system that either grows and accumulates or dies is by definition not sustainable. in the face of this evidence, some now want to give the system a cleansing bath in the cauldron of miraculous circularity. the so-called 'circular economy' is not the panacea some people want to make it out to be. the conversion of waste into resources may be more or less but it is never total. in this context, legislative initiatives to impose greater durability on products, to combat planned obsolescence, to promote the repair market and the existence of extended commercial guarantees, to make the use of materials subject to conditions such as recyclability, among other measures, are welcome and necessary.
mr president, we are strongly committed to denouncing and ending impunity for any and all crimes against humanity, war crimes, crimes of aggression, or any other. we cannot, however, accept the cynicism and hypocrisy of this resolution, which presents human rights in a manipulated and biased way, defining countries as political targets for geostrategic and economic interests. the plan is skewed and the targets the same as always. the european union and several of its member states have long been examples to the world of the worst atrocities against peoples, including on european soil. the rhetoric around the international criminal court is directed against what should be sovereign decisions of the people and grossly omits its role in whitewashing history such as the nato bombings in yugoslavia, where milosevic's innocence was recognized ten years after his death.
in writing. we welcome the many positive points that the report makes, such as the defence of recruitment and collective bargaining, the need to strengthen representative structures and trade unions and their active involvement in the definition of labour policies and legislation, or the increase in supervision and the fight against precariousness, or the defence of free and quality public services, particularly in health and education. we reject, however, in the strongest possible terms the intolerable notions that the right wing has tried to introduce, from labour flexibility, the individualisation of rights, to the validation of precariousness as a necessity in the interests of employers. precariousness exists, it is regulated by your labour policies and it is an instrument of exploitation of the workers! we also denounce the alignment of the right and social democracy to dilute or delete from the document important contributions to equality between men and women, which resulted from the opinion adopted by the committee on women, in particular the reasons and factors of discrimination against women, such as exploitation, precariousness and poverty affecting women in particular, or the need to increase the rights and duration of maternity protection, with 100% paid leave and free public facilities such as day care and pre-schools, or a firm fight against discrimination on the grounds of sex.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, renata briano, on the initiative she has taken in this report and on its final content. diversification of yield is essential for fisheries in europe. on the one hand, many springs are depleted, and on the other, fishermen are struggling to recover their income. we need to find sustainable solutions, and this could be one of them. under strict safety conditions, the commercial artisanal fishing vessels of the azores - the region from which i come - can operate with tourists on board. the fisheries industry and the catering industry are now working together, allowing visitors to watch and assist in the catching and then learn how to prepare the fish, in keeping with the tradition of this outermost region. this is a process coordinated by the association of women in fisheries of the azores. i think that the azores' example can and should serve as a model for other parts of continental and island europe.
mr president, the deep crisis in which the fisheries sector is found in various countries and regions, and in particular the small-scale fishing sector, has concrete causes that can be clearly identified. the failure of the eu's common fisheries policy in its various dimensions is due to: the commission has not been able to guarantee a decent income to fishermen, it has not contributed to the socioeconomic development of coastal regions, it has not ensured the supply of fish to the population in the context of good conservation of resources. it is in the context of this outright failure that many of the theories of diversification emerge, which, moreover, have parallels in other sectors such as agriculture. without calling into question the positive aspects that may result from activities that, alongside fishing, are complementary (and not alternative) to those carried out by fishermen, as is the case with tourism, it should be stressed that the primary objective and function of the fisherman is to fish. in order to be able to continue to do so for many years to come, what we need first and foremost is a change in policies.
mr president, at the end of april a proposal for an interinstitutional proclamation on the european pillar of social rights was presented. the 20 proposals are concrete and can be seen as a real manual for exploiting and levelling down labour and social rights. they promote the deepening of exploitation and precariousness by means of flexibility, attack the right to social protection and to public and universal social security, align the retirement age with life expectancy, defend precariousness and the submission of social and labour rights to the wishes of employers, big capital and the interests of the executive and the powers of the european union. they eliminate any reference to public policies of services such as education or health, they take a mercantilist view of rights whether in social protection, health, education, water, sanitation, energy, transport, among others. whoever wants them, pay them. the exploitation manual which urges the rejection, and with it the policies and constraints of the european union which promote poverty, inequalities and the suffocation of sovereign peoples and countries.
madam president, malta's presidency of the european union has come at a time of significant change in the dominant discourse on the future of europe. the cycle of false structural reforms is over and a new cycle of renewal of the european project is now beginning, and the maltese presidency has made significant progress on dossiers that strengthen citizens' attachment to the european project and make the functioning of the union stronger and more transparent. this is the case with the steps taken in the field of financial transparency and the sound financial functioning of the internal market and in the clean energy and circular economy packages. the flagship measure to end roaming and the new rules to ensure the portability of online content and services are hallmarks of the maltese presidency. your commitment to the tripartite agreement to make the wifi4eu initiative to promote universal and free access to high-quality internet in public spaces - an initiative for which i am the rapporteur - viable deserves to be highlighted. there are many paths to travel. malta, however, conveyed a message of hope and a demand for the future.
blue-card question. – mr rosati, do you not feel ashamed to invoke competitive disadvantage for multinationals when our citizens are demanding fairness in taxation, and when we see that there has not been any fairness and, indeed, that multinationals have been abusing our inability to deliver that fairness?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, transparency is the best weapon against tax fraud and tax evasion today. in this respect, this country-by-country report should be a fundamental step towards allowing public scrutiny of the behaviour of multinational companies in this area. it so happens that once again, the mountain has given birth to a mouse. the absurd limit of 750 million euros in turnover has been maintained, which leaves the vast majority of multinational companies out of the picture. we could have gone further in the information to be included in the report, but more serious than that is the inclusion at the last minute of an exception clause which will in practice completely neutralise the directive. under the false pretext of protecting commercially sensitive information, a derogation is introduced which allows multinational companies to conceal relevant information, and this exemption can be renewed ad eternum. we cannot take part in this farce. consensus cannot be achieved at the expense of abandoning the fundamental principles for which we were elected. the people, the workers, the eternals sacrificed by austerity policies deserve more and better.
madam president, just like natural persons, companies as legal persons have aspects of their lives, of their activities, which must be protected from public scrutiny. in a world where competition is increasingly intense, no one will dare to question this right to secrecy or confidentiality. however, this cannot be used to conceal the breach of obligations towards society and the state, in particular those of a fiscal nature. the right to reserve should only be guaranteed when it is properly linked to the duty of transparency, i.e. the obligation to publicly demonstrate that tax and social obligations are actually being met. a crime is always a matter of public record and as such cannot be hidden from the scrutiny of the state and society. this balance between the right to reserve and the duty of transparency is one of the prerequisites for healthy economic and social development.
the european parliament has long called for legislation to make multinational groups disclose information on profits, turnover, taxes, employees and other relevant information, broken down by country. the aim is to allow public scrutiny of tax avoidance strategies, to shed light on profit shifting techniques and to dissuade multinationals from aggressive tax planning schemes. in addition to the astronomical losses in tax evasion and fraud for national budgets and the european budget, i would remind you that the commission has found that smes pay 30% more in taxes on average than large multinational companies that use aggressive tax planning. it is therefore absolutely regrettable that the epp, the ecr and the liberals have surrendered to the unspeakable interests of the multinationals. they come here to invoke the oecd and beps when they know perfectly well that nothing in this area is binding. they have the opportunity to apply and pass binding legislation here and they betray the interests of transparency, they betray the interests of the citizens, because the truth is that by allowing a safeguard clause they are serving the interests of the multinationals against the transparency, against the fairness, as regards the tax justice that the citizens demand.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we know that now is a very important time to prepare the commission work programme and set the right course for the european union. this year is particularly important because we are also discussing the future of europe, and parliament should be involved in these discussions taking place everywhere. we are in a new situation. this is a kind of moment of truth, of clarification, because the right-wing political parties have decided to table their own resolution – a very conservative one, as we see it. let me be precise. what is really needed in the european union today? progressive forces, and i believe the majority of citizens, are sure that we need to have a new growth and jobs strategy driven by sustainable development goals. this is very clear. progressive forces and the majority of citizens know that we need a stronger social pillar, making sure that everybody – in whatever kind of job, including in the digital-economy transformation – has a decent labour contract and full access to social protection. we also need to make sure that we have the means to invest in people, particularly in children with the ‘child guarantee’. well, i must say i find it regrettable that the motion tabled by the conservative forces in this parliament does not agree with any of this. they do not include these requirements – which are so clear – in their motion. we also know that in order to really respect the paris climate deal we need to translate our commitments into a real investment policy supported by the union budget, and we know that in order to cope with the current refugee crisis the real solution is a european asylum system, which requires full reform of the dublin regime. this is so clear. nevertheless, it is not recognised by the right-wing coalition which is now organising the european parliament. finally, we know that, in order to cope with these external challenges, we need to strengthen internal cohesion among europeans, and this means tackling the divergence in the eurozone, with the banking union and fiscal capacity being introduced. it also means having a forward-looking community budget, counting on our own resources, based on corporate taxation, and based on energy emissions. we need to turn europe to the future and not to the past. i believe that parliament must be involved in the discussion which is coming in the european council and everywhere. this is the purpose of our motion and we believe we can get substantial support.
mr president, debt, the euro, banking, three key areas of action and the necessary break with the constraints of the european union. the debt response requires the initiation and support of processes for the renegotiation of public debt, in terms of its maturities, amounts and interest rates, along with the cancellation of its illegitimate component, ensuring that debt service is compatible with the social and economic development of each country. breaking the yoke of the euro, a political instrument of economic concentration and control, which has imposed a brutal dynamic of divergence in the euro zone, requires the creation of support programmes for those countries which consider that their stay in the euro has become unsustainable and unbearable, providing for adequate compensation for the losses caused in the context of a negotiated exit from the single currency. rejecting the banking union means freeing countries from the strategy of concentration, centralisation and the alienation of national banking abroad as a necessary way of regaining public and democratic control of the banking system. no people is condemned to be tied to these or other constraints of the european union which are contrary to its interests and sovereignty, and it will be the will of the people and their struggle that will build the alternative to the future of impoverishment and exploitation that is predicted in any of your scenarios. it will be this struggle that will pave the way to another europe of peace and cooperation, of progress and social justice, of free and sovereign states with equal rights.
madam president, i pay tribute to portuguese sergeant paiva benido, who lost his life in a terrorist attack on a european union mission in bamako with vice-president mogherini. in portugal last week there was a serious theft of military equipment that could be used for terrorist purposes not only because of the lack of investment in security and defence in a country where the state has been disarmed in all its dimensions by neoliberal austerity policies. this is one of the reasons why we absolutely need a european defence plan and to invest in a europe of security and defence, with strategic autonomy to act for our citizens, for international law, for peace, for the responsibility to protect and for conflict resolution globally, in the european framework, nato, the un and other partnerships. to do this, we need a strong defence industrial base, with cooperation and pulling and sharing of resources between member states and european investment in research and technology. for this, the european defence fund must be injected with contributions without further burdening the european budget. we also need to strengthen democratic control, including so that our member states do not continue to foolishly spend taxpayers' money on duplications, overlaps and waste. above all, we need more than president trump to bring us together; we need a european vision and strategic direction, which articulates foreign policy, security and defence, internal security. syria and libya are there to demonstrate the europe of defence that we need and that we have not had so far.
in writing. the european monopolies and the powers that defend their interests, which have colonized markets from the centre to the peripheries of the eu in successive enlargements, and which are throwing themselves out into the world with their known and natural greed, need a state ready to defend their interests, their imperialist drive, their rate of profit. they rely on the great national powers (their home states) but, more than that, on the european superstate (the eu). in the global confrontation over markets, raw materials and spheres of influence, the eu powers need an interventionist and militarized eu at their service. the european commission's 'reflection paper on the future of european defence' sets out the way forward: boosting the military, arms and defence industry and its integration at eu level; more cooperation in defence research and development, new weapon development and external civil or military operations; and closer coordination with nato. the course which the eu symbolises and defends for europe is a danger, a huge threat to the future of the continent and its peoples.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to greet the commissioner, to greet all my colleagues and to congratulate him, mr commissioner, on his realistic ambition and his commitment. parliament will have to follow suit: realistic ambition and commitment. i hope that the council will do the same. i hope that our proposals, our ambition, will be echoed in the council. i am in favour of a structured dialogue for this purpose, which is to have the best budget for the european union after 2020. talking about the budget is talking to the citizens; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment and the environment policy. it is about improving the quality of life, but it is also about competitiveness. it is also a question of solidarity, which in the european union must exist between and within the member states. and it is also today that new priorities are being set and i am talking about security and defence. we need predictability, we also need stability and that has an added value in terms of our obligation. we must present a multiannual financial framework for the european union in this parliamentary term. it is an obligation we have towards the citizens, towards those who elected us. their tips, their proposals, some of them subtle, are important. i would stress the strengthening of the social dimension and, for example, the guarantee for children. the objectives of the european union's strategy, the europe 2020 strategy, remain, but, as i said, we have a new priority, which is security and defence, and this needs additional resources, additional funding. fines and penalties, for example, should be included in the eu budget, it makes no sense for them to be returned to the member states. flexibility and simplicity are also important, and i welcome the proposal to end 'rebates', or compensation. the added value is something that depends on the location. value added cannot mean only large projects or cross-border projects. there are small projects which bring enormous added value and the political component is essential here. value added also means economic, social and territorial cohesion.
mr president, the budget is a real test of the political honesty of the european union. there is no rhetoric that can cover up the evidence of a declining budget, which is less and less geared to cohesion and which is increasingly fuelling security and defence policies. the text is absolutely clear. expressions such as 'efficiency', 'added value' and 'reforms' are fuelling this idea of doing more with less. we do not believe in the miracle of the multiplication of loaves of bread, and therefore the priorities set out in internal and external security, border control, the fight against terrorism or the european army will be financed by further cuts in cohesion and the common agricultural policy, as happened, moreover, with the present multiannual framework. this debate has the merit of exposing the true nature of this european union and revealing all its political hypocrisy. social and economic cohesion is not achieved by neoliberal reforms, much less by rhetoric. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me express my appreciation and congratulations to all those involved in this work, which is always hard work, and above all to the rapporteur, mr mureşan, for the quality of the work and the involvement of all the political groups. it is clear that the european parliament is once again united in this work. we look forward to the valuable contribution of the european commission and hope that the member states will also rise to the challenge of this annual event. it is essential that the objectives be in line with the means. we must have sufficient financial means to achieve the objectives we set ourselves. the budget of the european union is first and foremost an investment budget. for example, about 70% of investment in my country comes from the budget. it is also clear that when i say that the budget is an investment budget, i am referring to the fact that only 6% of the budget is associated with administrative expenditure, 94% of the european union budget is for investment throughout the union. we have an emergency in the execution of funds. it is unacceptable that there are at this moment almost a hundred managing authorities to be appointed in the european union. it is important that the funds which are for growth and economic development are implemented quickly. another issue has to do with the agreements, commissioner. agreements must be fulfilled pacta sunt servanda. we had said, we had decided, that we would not touch the connecting europe facility again, that we would not cut the connecting europe facility again. on the one hand, the connecting europe facility is being strengthened and on the other hand, we want to cut back on another extremely important programme, the fund for strategic investments. we want the european fund for strategic investments, but we cannot accept the cut of some 500 million euros in the connecting europe facility.
mr president, commissioner, with all due respect, you know what is really ridiculous - since that is the word today - is that i have not heard a single word from president juncker on the election of saudi arabia as a member of the united nations commission on the status of women. saudi arabia is a regime that despises women. they are required to have a male guardian, cannot travel, cannot study or work without a male's permission, cannot drive, cannot play sports, must hide their bodies and faces, even the clothes they buy must be tried on at home. what does this election mean? a boost to saudi arabia? a prize for good work, but what work? who won this election? no, saudi arabia is not the only state on this un committee that discriminates against women. there's a lot more! but saudi arabia doesn't hide, not by a long shot, what it thinks about women. this is the biggest embarrassment ever to the united nations.
the election of saudi arabia to the un commission on the status of women is shocking and makes it imperative, there and here, that saudi arabia confront the systematic violations of women's rights. in the report on the relations of the european union with saudi arabia that i wrote and that this parliament approved in 2014, we described the medieval regime that oppresses and misrules the country, with the worst record of gender inequality in the world, where women are unworthily subjected to a male guardian. so it is important to ask the high representative whether she has at least tried to coordinate the member states in this election at the un, and whether she will expose the other four members besides belgium, who voted in favour. are they the same ones who sell arms and support the violent repression by the saudis in yemen and bahrain and indirectly the muhabi proselytism that promotes and funds extremists and terrorists around the world? it is now up to the european governments to ensure that this election serves to confront the saudi regime and also to give encouragement to the women and men in saudi arabia who are fighting for freedom, human rights and justice. women and men like raif badawi, sakharov prize winner still imprisoned in saudi arabia. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
blue-card answer. – i have visited saudi arabia and we do not keep a dialogue with saudi arabia. we need to keep that dialogue and at the same time confront them – confront them in the un and here – for the violation of human rights and of women’s rights in particular. in this way, we will be giving a very clear sign to those who are fighting for human rights and for women’s rights in saudi arabia, because they exist there and they need our support.
madam president, madam high commissioner, i welcome the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation with cuba, which i consider to be a correct option from the point of view of the european union's foreign policy, given the importance and relevance of the whole latin american region to europe. so from a strictly foreign policy point of view, it seems to me that a good choice has been made and, fortunately, a fairly reasonable conclusion has been reached. i would also remind you that in the opening recitals of the agreement, the states of the european union and cuba affirm their respect for human rights as laid down in the universal declaration of human rights and recall their commitment to the recognised principles of democracy, good governance and the rule of law. it so happens that in recent months we have witnessed flagrant violations of human rights in cuba: an increase in the arbitrary detention of opponents, the intimidation of former prisoners of conscience, university students being expelled from their universities for defending doctrinal pluralism. so i conclude by saying that this agreement should be welcomed. but we cannot, under any circumstances, forget those who in cuba resist in the name of freedom.
mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for this european parliament on the trade agreement between the european union and japan, i would like to stress the enormous strategic importance of the political agreement which the two sides are to announce tomorrow at a bilateral summit on the sidelines of the g20 meeting. this agreement between two of the world's major economic powers is a great opportunity for the european economy and is a strong message against protectionism and in favour not only of open trade but of fairer and more regulated global trade. let's be clear, though. this is not the end of the road. there are still important open issues and parliament will remain vigilant until the end of the negotiations, demanding more transparency, starting with the disclosure of a negotiating mandate and the full safeguarding of our environmental, social and labour values and standards, in the framework of a strong chapter on sustainable development. that is the fair and ambitious agreement we want between the european union and japan.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, i would like to make three points: the first one does not go directly to the g20 agenda, but to the international conjuncture in which this meeting is taking place. what is happening with north korea and what is happening in the arabian peninsula with qatar and a number of arab states, notably saudi arabia and egypt, calls for global intervention. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process. two words later for the more specific agenda of the g20. the first to say that the european union - and we don't need the g20 here - cannot leave italy, greece, including spain, alone on the refugee issue. it is the responsibility of all of us: of northern, eastern, southern and western europe. and secondly, i would like to say - with the great experience that the portuguese have in africa - that if we do not take a serious stake, and this may already be a responsibility of the g20, in the development of africa, we will all end up continuing to increase this tragedy that is taking place in the mediterranean.
the g20 could make a difference against inequality, for global tax justice, for the destruction of tax havens, but i don't expect anything from the g20, it doesn't even have a formal existence. but i expect and ask the estonian presidency to take decisive action in two areas which are absolutely decisive for saving or sinking the european union. first, a smart management, with strategic vision and respect for human rights and international law, of the unstoppable phenomenon, the unstoppable challenge that we have in migration, which we cannot continue to manage as if it were a threat and not an opportunity for a europe in demographic decline. managing migration involves tackling the causes of terrorism. the european union needs to open up safe, controlled legal channels for immigrant refugees and not continue to feed the business of trafficking networks. there is no european union if we leave italy and greece alone to deal with this problem, as has been said, and we cannot think of outsourcing our responsibilities by paying for detention camps in libya. the second priority is obviously fiscal justice and it is linked to this because otherwise the phenomenon of migration will not stop.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i will try and react to some of the comments that were made and questions that were put to the commission. first, on the refugee crisis and our cooperation with the italian authorities on a code of conduct. there is no one at the commission who accuses ngos of anything. i have stated very clearly yesterday in the press conference that the intentions of the ngos are noble and good. what they are trying to do is save people from drowning in the mediterranean. nobody contests that. the only thing i have said very clearly yesterday is that a code of conduct could be helpful to avoid accidents at sea, to avoid misunderstandings, to make sure that the libyan coast guard, once it is at the level needed, can do its job in libyan territorial waters. that is the intention of our cooperation with the italian authorities. i want to be crystal clear about that. to the honourable member, ms gardini, i would say this: i understand your criticism of the commission and of what we are doing, but i think we are in this fight together. we are doing our best to encourage member states to do what they have promised and to join with extra efforts to make this situation in italy more bearable on all of us. but i would also ask her and other colleagues here in parliament: could they please help us in talking to the prime ministers who are part of your political families, and tell them also they should take the responsibility? i understand – ms in ‘t veld said very clearly – she criticised the prime minister from her political family. great. but talk to the prime ministers in your political family and convince them to do what needs to be done, and then we can all do the same job together instead of criticising each other. we are on the same line, the commission and the european parliament. let’s join efforts and convince the leaders of our nations, who are all part of one of mainly three political families in this house, to make sure that they do their bit. i believe if we do that together, we will get results fairly quickly. now, just a remark about brexit. i know that mr finch operates under the farage doctrine here in the european parliament, which is to make outrageous statements and then run away before anybody can react. but still, i want to use the opportunity to react. i think we are all under an economic, political and above all moral obligation to do the least harm possible in this brexit process. i think nobody disputes that position and attitude of the commission, of the member states and, i would argue also, of her majesty’s government in london. but to go from there and to say that the whole of the european union is going to suffer terribly in the g20 because of brexit is a bit rich, frankly. and mr finch, just so you know, i am a great admirer of british culture and i love the uk deeply, whether they are in the eu or not, but mr finch really reminds me of a character created by john cleese in monty python’s the holy grail. it is the black knight, who, after being defeated terribly and all his limbs cut off, says to his opponent: ‘let’s call it a draw’. what i would like to say to ms morvai, who has developed a new practice of asking questions to me every time i am here – and credit to her, she waits to hear the answer – i wanted to say this. she asked me precisely the question about refugees. but let me turn this around one moment. what would have happened if, in 1956 the swedish prime minister, the danish prime minister, the german chancellor, the dutch prime minister, the belgian prime minister, the luxembourgish prime minister, had said: ‘these hungarians, these people culturally don’t belong here. these people will change our culture in a way that we cannot accept.’ what would have happened in 1956 if that had been done? i am proud of the european legacy where, when people are persecuted by an inhuman communist regime such as the regime at the time in hungary, they find safe refuge in other european countries – and the hungarian communities across europe have made an incredible contribution to our societies and have reached the highest level of all these societies in the first, second and third generation. that would be my answer to you, ms morvai. and to ms atkinson, i really would like to say: how can you develop this profound admiration for president putin on the basis of national sovereignty? who in europe has had more disregard of national sovereignty than president putin, who occupies part of another sovereign nation? who has had less disregard for this? how can you admire a man and his politics based on your analysis of national sovereignty? it is completely beyond me. finally, if you will allow me, i will answer mr de graaff in the same language that he and i share. mijnheer de graaff heeft het over de patriottische lente die door zijn politieke leider in nederland voortdurend werd verkondigd. mijnheer de graaff vertegenwoordigt een politieke beweging die in het land dat ik het beste ken, succes heeft geboekt bij een deel van het electoraat dat zich in de steek gelaten voelt door de traditionele partijen, zoals ook mijn eigen partij. als mensen naar je partij toe komen, geeft je dat ook een grote verantwoordelijkheid om iets te doen aan de zorgen die ertoe leiden dat mensen denken dat je een oplossing hebt. maar de beweging van de heer de graaff laat mensen alleen maar in de steek, door alleen maar woede te voeden, door alleen maar boosheid op tafel te leggen, door nooit eens een keer met een constructieve oplossing te komen, door nooit te proberen onderdeel van de oplossing te zijn, alleen maar proberen het probleem op te kloppen en groter te maken en ik zeg tegen de heer de graaff – en hiermee wil ik eindigen – ik zie inderdaad een patriottische lente in europa. het is een europese patriottische lente die in bratislava werd getoond door de europese leiders toen ze samen een toekomst uitstippelden die we samen gaan vormgeven; die in rome werd getoond door de europese leiders toen ze aangaven samen de toekomst te willen aangeven; die op de g-20-top zal worden getoond door europese leiders als ze aangeven dat de toekomst van de wereld, het welzijn van de europeanen, alleen maar op duurzame manier kan worden gerealiseerd als europeanen dat sámen doen, niet op basis van een vals idee van nationale soevereiniteit tegen mekaar, niet door neer te kijken op andere europeanen of minderheden in de eigen samenleving, maar door iedereen de kracht te geven om samen een betere wereld te vormen.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank all member for their comments, which remind us once again that we are facing challenging times on several fronts, especially with the geopolitical and political uncertainties which are still very high. i therefore look forward to a strong message of confidence from g20 leaders. we need to preserve the spirit of cooperation in the g20 and to continue providing multilateral answers to the challenges that we are facing. this also means maintaining and building on their achievements of the past and not giving in to protectionism and isolationism.
in writing. 20 concrete proposals are made for a social pillar to whitewash the eu's neoliberal policies, which are presented as a real manual for exploiting and levelling down labour and social rights. they promote the deepening of exploitation and precariousness through 'flexibility', attack the right to social protection and public and universal social security, align the 'retirement age with life expectancy'. they defend precariousness and the subordination of social and labour rights to the wishes of employers, big business and the interests of the eu's power structure. any reference to public policies for services, such as education or health, is deleted. take a mercantilist view of rights whether in social protection, health, education, water, sanitation, energy, transport, among others, whoever wants them to pay for them! the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome.
madam president, it is a real pleasure to receive prime minister ratas here among us, and we welcome the estonian presidency’s commitment to an open and innovative europe. this is a really big vision, and we would like to align that vision with european values too. that is why your contribution, prime minister, will be very important in making the best of the digital revolution, as we believe that many benefits can come from this, and i would say that, more than just a digital single market, we need a digital union, making sure that everybody can benefit from the digital revolution when it comes to quality of public services, when it comes to full access for all citizens and when comes to the transformation of people’s working conditions in the digital environment. that is why the european social pillar, to be proclaimed during your presidency, should be geared to the future and should empower young people in europe. we also approve of your commitment to an open europe, and indeed europe is now negotiating very important trade agreements. we believe that, in negotiating these agreements, we should pay attention to the union’s commitment to the sustainable development goals. that is why the new instruments for defence are so important. however, in a nutshell, all the best for your very promising presidency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that this agreement on political dialogue and cooperation, which puts an end to the 1996 common position, is vital for the european union to assert its political presence in cuba at a time when the cuban regime is facing the consequences of the economic collapse of venezuela and the tightening of american policies. ladies and gentlemen, while this agreement is undoubtedly a platform for the development of bilateral cooperation, it is also a framework for the intensification of political dialogue. this house, which has awarded the sakharov prize three times to cuban dissidents and opponents, osvaldo payá, guilherme fariñas and the ladies in white, cannot but stress the importance of making its application conditional on the scrupulous fulfillment of the commitments made in the field of political dialogue and human rights, including the end of repression and the release of political prisoners, respect for freedom of the press and the guarantee of the rights of assembly and association, so that next year's general elections can be free, plural and fair and not just another episode of political and ideological monolithicism.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution in recognition of the need for an integrated european union strategic framework on hiv, tuberculosis and viral hepatitis. i was the shadow rapporteur on the report adopted in this house on 2 march on the european union's options for improving access to medicines, which calls on the commission and the member states to adopt strategic plans to ensure access to life-saving medicines and to coordinate a plan to eradicate hepatitis c in the european union through the use of instruments such as european public procurement. europe is a space of solidarity and therefore the european union has a responsibility to deliver on the united nations sustainable development goals, in particular goal 3, which includes the goal of eradicating the hiv and tuberculosis epidemics by 2030 and combating hepatitis. parliament has systematically asked the commission about the union's responses to hiv-aids, tuberculosis and hepatitis c. i believe that the commission must take all measures to promote effective public solutions in the prevention of these diseases and i will continue to follow this matter closely so that european citizens have a healthier future and better living conditions.
the repression by the erdogan regime, which has worsened since the failed coup in 2016, is in full violation of the copenhagen criteria. the european union must take action and cannot continue illegal and immoral business which uses refugees as a bargaining chip. the amendments to the turkish constitution, voted in a rigged referendum, violate the principle of separation of powers. we receive countless reports of human rights violations, not only from recognized organizations, but from desperate citizens who write to us directly, disappearances, forced resignations, confiscation of property without judicial basis, media censorship, political prisoners, torture, threats to re-introduce the death penalty. the european union must of course continue to engage in dialogue and relations with its neighbour turkey, including in order to bring an end to the division of cyprus, but it must above all direct support to turkish civil society fighting against repression. there are no conditions for continuing the process of turkey's accession to the european union at this stage. i therefore support the proposal to formally suspend the negotiations, with the hope and desire that turkey will reverse the disastrous trajectory on which it has been embarked by erdogan's greed for power.
mr president, during the arab spring, turkey was held up as an example of the compatibility of islam and democracy. but the failed coup of 2016 gave president erdogan the pretext to destroy the bastions of secularism and democratic institutions and, under a state of emergency that still exists today, to fire more than 130,000 people and jail public officials, journalists, judges, military and opposition politicians. the tangential victory in the referendum in april this year, the only thing it did was institutionalize the transformation of the turkish parliamentary system into an authoritarian presidential regime, where the head of state accumulates executive functions, and can govern by decree, dissolve the parliament and appoint most of the members of the high council of judges and prosecutors. ladies and gentlemen, it has been many decades since we have seen such a descent into authoritarianism and such a disregard for human rights and the values of freedom and the rule of law in europe. this drift and the new constitution run counter to the copenhagen criteria and therefore, without prejudice to the need for constructive dialogue, the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union should be suspended and pre-accession funds channelled towards supporting civil society and improving the situation of the three million refugees in this country.
mr president, the innovative and open european fund for sustainable development, by mobilising eur 44 billion for africa and the eastern neighbourhood, will enable the beneficiary territories to achieve more economic growth, more employment and stability. it is also essential to ensure geographical and thematic diversification in the approval of projects and platforms. this geographical diversification should also allow, at the same time, to ensure the reduction of poverty and the promotion of human rights. small projects and small and mediumsized enterprises must be cherished. we are not always aware that the european union is the world's largest donor. but we also have to simultaneously promote entrepreneurship, well-being and financial independence of the people. sustainable projects should create jobs, especially for young people. this fund, while respecting additionality, should be used in complementarity with other financial instruments and also with the european development fund. the european commission should support the designated second pillar and should support the development of investment platforms. it is also essential to have transparency in management, transparency in the approval and then also in the monitoring and implementation of projects. this is an imperative that cannot be forgotten. parliament should also continue to be associated with this important fund and be informed of the adoption of the platforms and projects.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the union's environmental and climate diplomacy has been demonstrating a leading role in the implementation of the global 2030 agenda and in the commitment to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development within the framework of the 17 sustainable development goals and 169 associated targets, which cover all aspects of union policy, and in the implementation of the paris agreement. i was appointed as shadow rapporteur for this report on european union action for sustainability, which was an opportunity for the european parliament to anchor its vision and agenda in european action for sustainability. however, it must be said that we still have a long way to go. we need the definition of the overall strategy for implementing the 2030 agenda, covering both domestic and external policy areas, a detailed timetable up to 2030, an effective and comprehensive monitoring and tracking system and specific progress indicators on the internal implementation of the sustainable development goals in the european union. i think this is an ambitious report and one which has been very well received. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the report focused on the fight against climate change and the decarbonisation of the economy, the protection of the oceans, the circular economy and resource efficiency, the promotion of science, technology and innovation, sustainable agriculture, nature conservation, the integration of the 2030 agenda into the european semester, the fight against inequalities between and among member states and the protection of the most vulnerable and marginalised. we recognise that the achievement of the sustainable development goals will require the participation of all stakeholders in the european union and therefore urge the european commission to ensure that the multilateral platform announced in its communication becomes a model of good practice to facilitate the planning, implementation, monitoring and review of the 2030 agenda. i believe that the european parliament must have a clear and decisive role in the implementation of the 2030 agenda that is deeply aligned with the principles and values of the european union. i also believe that the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda can be the legacy that europe will leave to future generations. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that this report shows that this house has an undeniable role to play in creating a better and more sustainable future, and i would like to thank seb dance for all the commitment and effort he has devoted, especially together with the shadow rapporteurs, to the development of this work, which is a very fine piece of work.
mr president, the sustainable development goals, 17 goals comprising 169 targets and more than 300 indicators set by the united nations in rio in 2012, justify this debate. it has two dimensions: the objectives themselves and the european union's attitude towards these objectives. the objectives range from poverty eradication to the protection of ecosystems, covering a multiplicity of areas. these are generally relevant and fair objectives, although a certain bias is evident, for example in over-valuing the role of economic growth, since, as regards the role of the european union and advertising aside, consideration of its general guidelines and sectoral policies leads to the conclusion that they will not result in the desired sustainability. sustainability requires breaking with free and unregulated trade, with the generalization of intensive production models, with the deregulation of the financial sector and the free movement of capital, with the erosion of social and labour rights, with the attack on public services, just to give a few examples.
mr president, it is obviously not for the council or the commission, or even for this parliament, to decide on this matter. the decision is taken by unanimity of the member states to amend the treaties and to allow the determination of a single seat for the european parliament. however, i believe that we should take advantage of the election of the french president - the most pro-european of the candidates in the french elections - and the brexit negotiations to relaunch the debate on the revision of the treaties so that this house can meet in one place. it is not a question of launching any campaign against strasbourg, the symbolic site of franco-german reconciliation and the starting point of european integration. it is a question of putting aside nationalist selfishness and finding a solution which is more efficient from the economic, environmental and parliamentary point of view. the monthly travel to strasbourg of meps, assistants, interpreters and journalists costs around €114 million and represents additional emissions of 19 000 tonnes of co2 per year. these values are not justifiable in the eyes of those we all represent here - the citizens of europe - and who were required to make so many sacrifices in the wake of the 2008 crisis. parliament may not have the power to decide, but certainly, on behalf of those it represents - the people of europe - it can and must discuss this matter. and furthermore, with regard to the european medicines agency, it is proven that portugal is the ideal place to have the agency.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, commissioner, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr younous omarjee, on the initiative he took in this report and on its final content. the development of a socially and economically cohesive and supportive europe is a daily task. the differentiated treatment of the outermost regions by all the union institutions and services is legally established, but requires continuous improvement. as the person responsible for the opinion of the committee on agriculture, i stress the need to ensure that the appropriations for posei are consistent in the next multiannual financial framework. posei has been a valuable aid, recognised by the independent analyses promoted by the european commission. i also stress the need for the eu milk market observatory to include the outermost regions, in an autonomous and independent way, in the assessment of prices and in the establishment of the criteria for defining the crisis.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mr omarjee on the final product of this report and say that the european union must take account of the social, economic and structural situation of these regions, which are remote regions because of their insularity, small size, terrain, difficult climates and their economic dependence on a small number of products. we must therefore all work to safeguard the competitiveness and specificity of their traditional industries when concluding free trade agreements between the union and third countries, in an increase in investment achieved through the european fund for strategic investments, in order to respond to the market failures in these regions, but also to the very high rates of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, in the creation of a specific research programme that will allow the networking of their universities, research centres and innovative companies. the rups have all the characteristics of experimental laboratories. i also believe that the internationalisation of the accessibility of the outermost regions through transport infrastructure and routes is essential. i would also like to say that i am particularly pleased that we are speaking here with one voice on what we want for the ors and we are indeed looking forward to the strategy for the ors as early as next autumn.
mr president, i would like to stress five points in this report which we support. firstly, the creation of a posei transport because of the constraints on the mobility of people and goods in these regions in view of their remoteness and the associated increased costs. secondly, no reduction in the posei agriculture, which is a key factor for the economic and social development and territorial cohesion of these regions. thirdly, protection of sensitive products for the outermost regions in the framework of european trade agreements, the impact of which must be assessed in advance. it is necessary to define clearly what a market crisis is in these regions. the report also argues for the need for the milk observatory to have data on this sector of the ors in an autonomous way. fourthly, the recovery of the posei fisheries fund, whose integration into the emff was a huge mistake, which must be corrected, causing damage to fishermen and leading to the loss of autonomy in the management of this important fund. fifthly, the increase in the application of article 349. there is an increased responsibility on the part of the member states to ensure that the scope of this article is not limited to funding, by acting and influencing so that the commission documents already demonstrate respect for the treaty and not just act to remedy this situation. finally, i would like to commend the excellent work of mr omarjee.
mr president, commissioner, the outermost regions are in a unique situation within the european union, in a natural context marked by insularity, tropical climate and rugged volcanic terrain. these regions are far from the european continent, but have a relevant history: they play a strategic role in protecting europe's sea lanes and defending its external borders. the octs are privileged areas with a potential for activities related to the growth of tourism, blue growth, the exploitation of renewable energies, the development of the circular economy and the valorisation of their rich natural heritage and vast biodiversity. my country, portugal, has a history intrinsically linked to the sea and to maritime expansion. the sea has been the identity matrix of the portuguese people for centuries, and our relationship with the sea throughout our collective history has made it possible to redeem a unique space of knowledge and opportunities for all of europe. i therefore believe that the portuguese, azores and madeira ors represent a unique opportunity for a more sustainable europe by strengthening its maritime vision and dimension. i therefore believe that the union must allow the octs to overcome their difficulties and to take advantage of their unique assets and assets, and at the same time that the member states must take greater responsibility for the use of the union's available instruments to enable them to ensure the sustainable development of the octs. this is the design we want for all these regions and i would like to congratulate mr omarjee on the excellent work he has done on this report.
mr president, the outermost regions face structural factors such as remoteness, insularity and so on which are a permanent constraint on their development. this is the basis for positive discrimination which ensures that these regions have specific measures and provisions to help them cope with these constraints. this positive discrimination has been applied in a very insufficient and limited way by the european union. we therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal - which i welcome - for the creation of an action plan for the outermost regions to strengthen and extend the effects of this positive discrimination. it is necessary to put an end to the devastating deregulation of markets, to give greater support to regional production, to boost local markets, to support the creation of inter-island markets, for example in the macaronesian region, transport and the mobility of people and goods by creating a posei transportes. it is necessary to ensure that the ors have control over the entirety of their exclusive economic zone, to support research and development in areas such as renewable energy, biodiversity, among others, and among other measures that can and should be integrated into this action plan.
member of the commission. – madam president, as you know, on 17 june, several regions in portugal started to face massive forest fires that tragically resulted in the loss of the lives of 64 people and injured another 210. on behalf of the commission, i would like to express my renewed condolences to the families and the loved ones of the victims and i would also like – this cannot be repeated too often – to pay tribute to the courage and the outstanding work of the brave firefighters who fought the blaze. i know about the firefighters personally. i saw them in many areas on the ground. europe is about solidarity and i am proud that the eu could help portugal at a time of great need. on 18 june, portugal requested assistance through the eu civil protection mechanism. the european union responded swiftly and substantially. within hours, france, spain and italy sent firefighting aircraft and firefighters. greece and cyprus also offered to send firefighters through our mechanism. i would like to warmly thank those countries. i would also like to thank the portuguese authorities for publicly recognising and praising this eu assistance because in that way they communicated the eu solidarity to their citizens. in these critical times, it is our duty to make each citizen aware of what the european union truly stands for. let me mention the specific assistance provided to portugal via the eu civil protection mechanism. firstly, seven aircraft and 135 firefighters with 29 vehicles were sent to portugal. over a week, a total of 747 water drops were carried out. in addition, 61 eu copernicus satellite maps were produced to help assess the damage. through the emergency response coordination centre (ercc), the commission monitored the situation around the clock and was in constant contact with the portuguese and other member states’ authorities. the european union stands ready to support the response to any new forest fire emergency in the eu in the coming months. during the recent forest fire emergency spain too asked our ercc for copernicus satellite maps. emergency management services were therefore activated. as of today, 12 maps have been produced and 14 are in the making. for the 2017 forest fire season, reinforcement measures have also been taken. our ercc is continuously monitoring the situation across europe and civil protection experts from our member states, including spain, are working on our ercc premises in brussels. however, the eu has no assets of its own and no firefighting planes. we rely on our member states to make resources available. on that point, more could be done. as the commission pointed out in february this year in its report on progress and the remaining gaps, the aerial forest firefighting capability should be further strengthened. this is a very important point. but the eu civil protection legislation goes beyond disaster response. as you well know as parliamentarians, it also includes disaster risk management as an equal priority. the commission has recently produced an overview of disaster risks that the eu may face, based on the work carried out by member states in developing national risk assessments, for it is important to have a better understanding of all disaster risks in europe, including forest fires. as the recent tragic events have sadly demonstrated, prevention is always better than cure. the commission provides funding for prevention and preparedness projects and exercises. apart from these activities, the means to fight forest fires in all parts of our continent are to be improved under the annual work programme of the eu civil protection mechanism. in addition, the regional funds also play an important role in addressing climate change adaptation, disaster risk prevention and management, and environmental protection in all our member states. portugal and spain benefit from these funds, which also cover protecting people from forest fires. added to that, both countries receive further support through the cross-border, transnational and interregional programmes with a specific focus on forest fire protection measures.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i asked for this debate and i immediately counted on the support of my colleagues in the regi committee in the wake of the terrible tragedy that has struck my country and my region. sixty-four people were killed, more than 200 were injured, and 47 lost their lives fleeing the blaze on a stretch of national highway that, curiously, was not closed to traffic. it was an unusually destructive fire, a huge catastrophe that shocked everyone immensely. it is now up to us, after the fire has been extinguished and the damage accounted for, to concentrate on supporting the families and friends of the victims, on supporting the injured and survivors and on the effort to rebuild infrastructure, housing or businesses, giving hope to those who have lost everything. i therefore call for rapid and simplified aid to the families of the survivors, to the workers who have lost their jobs, to the firms and local authorities affected by this tragic event, who are faced with a very difficult and difficult task. it is necessary once and for all to actively prevent and manage forests, to plan properly for cover and land use, to draw up the land register and to make real use of inland areas, by implementing the principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion through policies to combat the human and infrastructural desertification that has been the target for some decades. of course, it is up to portugal and the government to act first, but the european union can help, it can help by negotiating partnership agreements, which implement part of the multiannual financial framework, namely the european structural and investment funds or even through the juncker plan. it can promote greater coordination and coherence of forestry policies and enable synergies with other sectors linked to forest management or even information technologies. we have nothing to say at the moment, as portugal has, as the commissioner said, been helped by air and human resources from several member states, and we have, of course, commissioner, and i will end with this, to know what the commission's assessment is of this cooperation with the portuguese authorities and to know how and when european aid will be processed under the solidarity fund and the new rules on the regional development fund, as the losses amount to about 500 million euros according to government estimates.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, this debate is very timely, not only for portugal and spain, but for the whole of the european union. the european response mechanisms to this emergency have worked. the necessary funds will be made available covering 95% of the identified capital losses. just today this parliament approved the strengthening of the solidarity fund. however, the scale of the tragedies and the climatic phenomena that have made them devastating, from the human and heritage point of view, show, commissioner, that the level of risk has risen and that we need to prepare for another level of response. the european union has done a lot, but it must be prepared to do more in the future. security and defence today cover areas that go far beyond the traditional areas. the fight against terrorism and the effects of climate change are two new challenges which require joint work by the european union, joint work in emergency response where available means and readiness for action must be strengthened, but also, and above all, joint work in cooperation for the prevention and recovery of the economic and social fabric and the destroyed heritage. the creation of a permanent european mechanism with its own resources for prevention and response to natural disasters will also allow for a process of shared learning. the fires in portugal and spain, commissioner, should help us to create these new capacities for action quickly.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, the forest fire that broke out in pedrógão grande, portugal, about three weeks ago and which resulted in the death of 64 people, most of them in their cars on a public road, as they fled the flames, calls us all to the deepest dimension of a sense of political responsibility. how was this possible in the 21st century in a country of the european union? and almost a month later portugal is still not clear about what really happened, about what it failed to prevent and combat this tragedy. we only know that successive portuguese governments have turned the country into a huge eucalyptus. portugal is today the country of eucalyptus in europe. we also know that the various agencies set up to manage forests and to prevent and combat fires have not understood each other and have failed completely, and that the emergency communications system, purchased a few years ago for hundreds of millions of euros, has also failed because it did not work. finally, we know that the portuguese state has failed in its most elementary functions and how to demonstrate this failure about fifteen days after this tragedy, large quantities of war weapons, including powerful explosive devices and grenade launchers were stolen from a military establishment due to unacceptable and obvious security flaws and in the midst of this general irresponsibility the prime minister of portugal went on holiday and handed over the responsibility of his government to a subordinate.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, in the report we voted on this morning on the budget negotiations we appreciated the fact that it was possible to include the proposal we made to increase the solidarity fund, in view of the brutal fires which have swept through central portugal. we stress the need for something we have long advocated: the modification of the rules for mobilising the fund, ensuring a more flexible, timely mobilisation and covering a wider range of disasters. in the face of the tragedy in portugal, it is necessary to reach out to the victims, support the populations and restore the productive potential of the affected areas. but it takes more. in 2010, this parliament adopted a resolution, of which i was rapporteur, on a community approach to disaster prevention. seven years later, almost nothing has been done. i would like to highlight the proposal to create a financial framework appropriate to disaster prevention, capable of financing actions in areas such as forestry or the maintenance of agricultural activity in areas affected by depopulation, among many other proposals. commissioner, it is time for the european commission to look at these recommendations with a clear eye and act accordingly.
madam president, commissioner, we are witnessing a tragedy in portugal which has claimed so many lives. to honor the lives of these people and their families and those people who have lost everything is to do everything that needs to be done. the european union has an allocation in its budget for the prevention mechanism. in portugal, the most urgent fire prevention measure is to carry out a forest register. it is an emergency that can save lives and until the register is made no effective forest management can be achieved. as always, we have a problem: it's too expensive. i therefore ask you, commissioner, is the commission prepared to allow the portuguese government to make extraordinary expenditure in this area, with the greatest possible share of the cost? is the commission prepared to ensure that this extraordinary expenditure is not charged to the deficit? please answer, commissioner. prevention is the best medicine, but brussels must help. it cannot reach out with one hand and withdraw with the other, as it has done in recent years.
madam president, commissioner, the fires in portugal last month will be remembered as one of the greatest national tragedies. as has been said here, 64 people were killed and more than two hundred were injured. total or partial damage to housing amounts to eur 28 million, eur 31 million in losses to economic activities in the region, eur 21 million in losses to agricultural activities, eur 22 million in losses to municipal infrastructure and equipment. we have almost 200 million in direct losses, and that's not counting the indirect ones. this has happened in an area of the countryside which is sometimes outside our concern, the ageing of the population and the abandonment of the territory, a region which is the best justification for the existence of a strong and effective cohesion policy. portugal will use the european solidarity fund, but it would be good if there were a larger allocation of this fund and if the rules for its flexible mobilisation were adapted. portugal is still in mourning and thanks the european solidarity and that of its european partners.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the countries that have helped portugal in such a difficult time: greece, france, spain, italy and cyprus. i would also like to thank the brotherly people of timor, who, on the other side of the world, despite their equally difficult circumstances, have approved aid of 1.5 million dollars for portugal. i would like to say a word to the portuguese firefighters who make their sacrifice every day a means of helping others, and i would like to stress, in relation to the president of the commission, that it is not enough for us to discuss the issue of global warming, which is real, we need a european forestry policy adapted to the needs of each country in europe, especially the countries of southern europe, the most affected by climate issues and those which contribute least to the worsening of the phenomenon. this is the last word i would like to leave to the commissioner, who i am sure will take this concern very seriously, even because of his nationality.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on saturday, 17 june, portugal experienced a brutal tragedy as a result of a forest fire. 64 people died. it's not acceptable, it's not normal. i would like to thank you for your readiness and your commitment. the request by the government to activate the european union's civil protection mechanism only occurred on sunday, the 18th. but within 60 minutes of the request, there were already planes heading for portugal. the portuguese government has to use the structural funds, which can go to a co-financing rate of 95%, and the rural development fund to recover the damage. i'm talking about more than 26 billion euros available. the commission, parliament and the council must quickly mobilise the solidarity fund. it is time to rebuild and help the affected populations, but it is also time to learn lessons and do everything to prevent tragedies of this kind and in the matter of fire, this is a responsibility of each government. finally, a message of solidarity to all those affected and a word of appreciation for the courage of the firefighters of portugal.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to salute the brave and courageous portuguese and spanish firefighters. the fires which ravaged portugal last month were particularly dramatic and my country is still burning at the moment, as it does every year at this time. for a century portugal was one of the countries where the forest grew the most. but because this growth has come at the expense of a faulty reforestation policy, which has replaced native species with the disorderly planting of eucalyptus and wild pine monocultures, portugal has also been one of the countries that has destroyed the most forest in the last 25 years. every year, in the face of these tragedies, we hear the same speech in portugal, the same promises and justifications, but the truth is that governments succeed each other, the wrong policies remain the same and in the end the drama of the victims is always the same: deaths, loss of entire working lives and irreparable environmental damage. in april, we approved the release of €3.9 million for the reconstruction of the areas affected by the fires in august 2016 in madeira. the scale of the pedrógão grande and gois tragedy, which left 200 injured, 64 dead and 400 million euros in damage, makes it urgent that the european solidarity fund be made available more quickly. that is what the portuguese expect from europe and that is what europe owes to its citizens.
the fire in pedrógão grande was a tragedy in human lives, as has already been said here. in the agricultural sector, losses are estimated at over eur 20 million. the portuguese government immediately responded and the farmers concerned will be able to apply for compensation. it has become clear that european disaster response funds are crucial and should now be applied in cooperation with local authorities. the commission also responded quickly to the request for assistance through its civil protection mechanism. the member states of the union have helped. these supports were vital. although no one can say for sure what caused the fire, the fact is that the extreme weather conditions in pedrógão, with humidity below 30%, temperatures above 40 degrees and winds exceeding 50 kilometers per hour, are conditions that cannot be dissociated from global climate change. it happened in pedrógão and it will happen in other places in southern europe. we must prepare ourselves in solidarity as europeans.
madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my sorrow at the death of 64 people and my solidarity with the other victims. i am grateful for the european commission's prompt response and for the support of my colleagues in the face of a tragedy that must not happen again. there is no effective forest fire prevention system if it is not part of a forestry strategy, which is time-tested, forward-looking and contributes to rural development. you don't do this in a month. member states are responsible for strengthening european support for rural development, in particular for basic services and village renewal, reforestation and improving the viability of forests and the prevention and repair of damage to forests caused by fires and other disasters, with particular emphasis on european support for the creation and maintenance of protective infrastructure, the promotion of local fire prevention activities, including the use of animals after grazing, and the creation and improvement of forest fire control structures. finally, i would like to express my great appreciation for the work and dedication of the portuguese firefighters.
on june 17th, a national tragedy of 64 dead, to whom i pay tribute, as i do to our firefighters and all those who worked to minimize the damage. we appreciate the ready support of the commissioner and other european partners, the spanish firefighters in particular, but we need more european support, because there are problems beyond the prevention of disasters of this kind which have to do with structural issues of land management, of the management of our forests, of preventing the depopulation of the interior of the country because otherwise we cannot fight this type of forest fires and especially when we are experiencing the impact of climate change. we need support to reorganise our civil protection, to coordinate the forests, the national territory, we need support to stop us from continuing to buy equipment that does not work, in contracts that are otherwise corrupt, we need the european union to help us to stop this from continuing and we absolutely need, in addition to strengthening the european solidarity fund, that the national investment that will be made in this reorganisation effort does not count towards the deficit, because without a doubt the neoliberal austerity programme also had a lot of responsibilities in weakening the portuguese state's capacities to react to a tragedy of this nature.
mr president, we are only giving the intentions embodied in the proposals under discussion that go the way of ensuring access to printed texts for blind or visually impaired people, in particular by integrating the perspective of access to texts and works made available in digital or audio format. it is a factor of social justice and equity in access to information, culture and knowledge, which millions of people today have various difficulties in accessing. we cannot, however, dissociate the matter under consideration and the reality described from the consequences of austerity policies, policies of attack on public services, the attack on social and labour rights and the many restrictions that have been imposed and extended in many countries, such as portugal, on the rights of persons with disabilities, a population group particularly vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion. only through public service policies can equal access and participation in the social, economic, cultural or sporting dimensions of life be guaranteed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, blind people, people with visual impairments or people with other print disabilities still face many obstacles in accessing printed material. the need to make the much larger number of works in accessible formats fully available to these people and to improve their circulation was recognised by the marrakesh treaty, as has already been said here. the european union's accession to the marrakesh treaty has been long awaited. however, and despite its signing by the european union in 2014, the truth is that its rectification is still delayed by a purely legal issue. the truth is that this is a matter of enormous importance, in that it guarantees a basic human right to more than 30 million visually impaired people throughout the european union and improves accessibility to books in developing countries. the result of this backlog is that these citizens continue to face many obstacles to accessing books and printed material and all that this implies in terms of social exclusion. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that this draft resolution is a triumph for a social model of disability, it represents an appropriate international solution to the global problem of the hunger for books. i therefore believe that all the necessary measures must be taken to ensure the rapid and proper implementation of the treaty, which has a huge cultural, humanitarian and social development dimension.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although in 1986 the international whaling commission imposed a worldwide moratorium on commercial whaling, the truth is that norway continues to hunt whales and to set its own catch limits. the fact is that norway even increased its share of north atlantic humpback whales caught in 2017 to 999, compared to 880 in 2016, and between 2014 and 2015 killed more whales than japan and iceland combined, as the commissioner said just now. commissioner, most of the dead whales are pregnant females, as shown in the documentary "battle of agony" with horrific footage of the norwegian whaling industry, including a bloody scene during which a fisherman cuts open a pregnant whale. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner, the commission must take urgent action to adopt a common position to urge norway to immediately cease all whaling activities under the international convention for the regulation of whaling. whale products are exported from norway to japan and i conclude, mr president, by saying that they pass through at least three ports in the european union. the european union cannot allow this. i'm not sure. i call on you to put an end to this situation once and for all. it is unacceptable at this time that we should continue to watch the bloody scenes we have seen.
madam president, liu xiaobo and lee ming-che have very different life paths. liu xiaobo is the most famous chinese dissident, nobel peace prize winner in 2010. lee ming-che was until recently a discreet volunteer teacher at a local taiwanese ngo. a common feature, the defence of human rights brought their destinies closer together. both were charged with subversion and sentenced to prison terms by the chinese regime. lee ming-che has been detained since march in part uncertainty and the nobel peace prize winner, who was sentenced in 2009 to 11 years in prison, was released on medical grounds months after being diagnosed with terminal liver cancer and is currently prevented by chinese authorities from receiving medical treatment abroad as he wishes. ladies and gentlemen, in the year of the 28th anniversary of the tiananmen massacre, the european union must clearly condemn the intensification of the crackdown on freedom of expression and religion in china since 2011, demand the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience in that country and ask the chinese authorities to allow the historic activist liu xiaobo to receive the urgent treatment he so badly needs.
blue-card question. – ms wikström, you said that dawit isaak was europe’s only prisoner of conscience. that is not true, you know, because elsewhere there are other such cases – for instance in ethiopia, where the british ethiopian citizen andy tsege has been kidnapped and is in prison. no matter how much solidarity i have with you on the fate of dawit isaak, it is incorrect to say that he is the only one.
the eritrean-swedish journalist dawit isaak is one of the thousands of prisoners in eritrea about whom we know nothing. the venerable patriarch antonios dared to protest against arbitrary arrests and was deposed and disappeared. the regime of isaias afwerki has for years subjected the eritrean people to a regime of terror, with torture, arbitrary detentions, disappearances, indefinite military conscription, forced labour, etc. no wonder so many eritreans risk their lives on dangerous voyages in search of refuge. instead of strategically working with other partners to alleviate the suffering of eritreans and welcome those fleeing, the european union negotiated with the government of isaias afwerki 200 million euros from the edf for unconditional investments to stem the refugee surge. this policy is not just a waste of public money, it is a betrayal of the values that should guide our foreign and development policy to make a difference for eritreans and that implies promoting democratic transformation in eritrea.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the republic of burundi the radicalisation of the regime which followed the announcement of president pierre nkurunziza's candidacy for a third term in violation of the country's constitution has polarized the political conflict and the harsh reprisals of the government and its militias have condemned opponents to re-election, exile or torture and extrajudicial executions, arbitrary detention and enforced disappearances. this political crisis and deteriorating economy have caused a dramatic humanitarian crisis in the country where, at present, according to un estimates, three million people are in need of aid and 2.6 million are exposed to extreme food insecurity. in view of this situation, the european union should urge the burundian authorities to comply with their international human rights obligations and to bring to justice those responsible for the atrocities committed. the union also has a duty to support all efforts at negotiation between the government and the opposition to put an end to the escalation of ethnic tensions and to find a peaceful and lasting solution for that country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, of which i was a shadow rapporteur, because i believe that although sustainable development has long been at the heart of the european project, we still have a long way to go in building a better future for our children and our planet. the european parliament has devoted much of its attention to the implementation of the un 2030 agenda, which is a common commitment and requires the participation and cooperation of all, including member states, and civil society in general. the proposals in this report have the common objective of reinforcing the core of the european union's overall strategy and provide an opportunity for the european parliament to definitively and decisively anchor its vision, its agenda, on european action for sustainability. it is a wide-ranging and interesting reflection which responds to the most complex interlinked challenges facing the world today and provides a framework for action by the institutions of the european union, in particular the european parliament. i believe that this house has an indispensable role to play in creating a better and more sustainable future for europe and this report can be seen as a key part of that design.
mr president, commissioner, this is a matter of unmistakable gravity and i think the european commission has dealt with the problem well in order to safeguard the interests of european consumers. but to put this discussion in perspective, it is also worth remembering that it was the brazilian authorities themselves who denounced these frauds to the european union, suspended exports and closed the production units concerned, which means that the brazilian political authorities are in fact committed to investigating this whole process and preventing further frauds, that is, there has been a complete willingness on the part of the brazilian authorities to participate in the ongoing investigation into the deficiencies which they themselves acknowledge exist in their own sanitary and phytosanitary control system. so we cannot demonize brazil in a simplistic way, nor the brazilian situation, which unfortunately was, but today, in recent years, important steps have been taken to make the brazilian situation quite different from what has now been portrayed here. it is also important to stress that none of this can affect the negotiations under way for the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the mercosur countries. it is absolutely certain that in the context of the discussions we are having at the moment there is a very strict chapter on sanitary and phytosanitary matters to safeguard the safety of european consumers. it could not be otherwise. what is now needed is also serious investment to ensure that this trade agreement, which is of strategic importance for the european union, is put into practice.
mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for the explanations you have given on this subject. the commissioner formally questioned the government of brazil on the health surveillance of meat products produced in the country, raising the credibility of health control systems, after the brazilian police investigated in march a scheme considered very serious corruption and illegal sale of meat. the european commission has informed the council that it has implemented measures to combat fraud, such as suspending imports of the products and establishments involved and reinforcing control checks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner, this is a repeated failure on the part of the brazilian authorities to comply with the union's recommendations for increased sanitary control. brazil is the largest supplier of agricultural products to the european union with exports of €1.7 billion of animal products. commissioner, something has to be done. i think the commissioner is the right person to stop this.
madam president, violence against women, like domestic violence, has at its root a complex web of economic, social, political and cultural causes which cannot be ignored, which persist and are worsening in our society. these causes are associated and intertwined with psychological dynamics that lead many women into dead ends as a result of feelings of guilt, fear and shame, of responsibility for maintaining the family unit at all costs, of family and social pressure. the successful prevention, combating and eradication of violence against women in its many forms is inseparable from the realisation of women's rights in law and in life, from ensuring equal participation in the private and family spheres as well as in the labour, social, political and sporting spheres, from changing age-old conceptions based on the subordination of women's role in the family, at work and in society, and from promoting a culture based on the values of freedom, democracy, equality, justice and progress.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, anna maria corazza bildt, on her contribution to this fight and on all the colleagues who have raised their voices. the fight against discrimination must be a cause for all, whether men or women, young or old. it is a common design that is an integral part of what unites us as europeans. violence against women, particularly domestic violence, is unfortunately the cause and effect of the discrimination that many - too many! - women still face. preventing and punishing this absolutely intolerable practice must also be the aim of everyone: local communities, member states and the european union itself. the istanbul convention is of course an excellent instrument for this purpose. that is why i call on those member states which have not yet acceded to the convention to do so swiftly, and i agree that the union must also accede so that in the areas where it is competent it can play a full part in the implementation of this convention and in combating discrimination. ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to combat this suffering and to create the conditions for european women to live in freedom and without fear. let's put the accessory aside and focus on what really matters. there are european women who are still suffering and this must end!
mr president, commissioner, i will not go into the data and the social and personal damage of gender-based violence that we are all well aware of. other financial costs are also public, but the costs on the body and soul of these women are not quantifiable. gender-based violence affects the 500 million citizens living in this union. it is therefore essential that the istanbul convention be implemented in practice, accompanied by other measures, in particular the end once and for all of the austerity policies which have so promoted and are still promoting inequality. therefore, commissioner, it is urgent to present a proposal for a legal act to support the member states in preventing and eliminating all forms of violence against women and girls. it is a matter of human rights and this is a matter for the european union. but this too cannot be done without education. on the other hand, i feel that it is quite unworthy to wait for the bridge clause for this union to make progress in combating gender-based violence. we should be much more united in this fight. thank you very much.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, climate change is increasingly present in our lives. we've had the hottest summers, as has been mentioned, tragic fires, floods, hurricanes, and it's the very center of our lives that's at stake. as rapporteur for the itre committee, i have always sought to ensure that we have adequate, robust, sound and fair monitoring in place to enable us to move forward with the objectives of the paris agreement. we have had enormous difficulties in this respect, especially with regard to the reference period. we maintained a division almost to the end, although with agreement on the general issues. but the fact is that it is unacceptable that the interests of industry in just one northern european country can call into question, or put themselves ahead of, the interests of all the countries of europe and their citizens and the common good. i therefore call for a favourable vote on mr lins' report. it is clearly more favourable than the one adopted at itre, which i myself voted against and i must say, commissioner, that i still preferred the commission's version as regards reference periods, but unfortunately this cannot go forward.
commissioner, this proposal determines how carbon dioxide emissions from the agricultural and forestry sector should be incorporated into european climate policy in order to contribute to the reduction of the european union's emissions and is of great relevance in the context of international climate change negotiations because of the political signals it sends about the ambition and determination of the european union in combating climate change. forests are closely linked to climate change. the climate impact of past changes in soil and soil cover is estimated to have accounted for about 40 percent of the total warming between 1850 and 2010, an astronomical figure. it is therefore essential that forests are managed sustainably, maintaining their biological diversity, their productivity, their regenerative capacity, their capacity to fulfil ecological, economic and social functions at local, national and global levels, now and in the future. after one of the hottest summers in history and the severe fires that have hit europe - and my own country in particular - it is important to stress the importance of forests in the fight against climate change. i believe that this proposal - in line with a climate policy that recognises the role of forests and soil as key actors in the fight against climate change - can be the only way to move safely towards a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy that supports its decarbonisation dimension.
in writing. the adoption of this report is crucial to ensure a strong mandate for the european parliament for the negotiations with the commission and the member states on the eu transparency register for lobbyists. it is essential that the european commission's ethics committee, which looks into violations of the code of conduct, is chosen and can decide independently, and that the grace period between the end of the mandate and acceptance of jobs in the private sector is extended. we also advocate that all relevant commission staff should only meet with entities registered in the transparency register and that these meetings should be published. i also hope that parliament will approve the amendments proposed this week by the rapporteur, which concern the mandatory publication by rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs of all meetings with interest representatives and the establishment of a grace period which will continue for as long as the temporary transitional allowance is paid, and that any decision on positions taken in the private sector after the mandate will be assessed by an independent authority. it is the least we can do to meet the demands of ethics and integrity of the citizens.
madam president, digitisation is an unstoppable process in society. this is clearly a crucial challenge for university and vocational training. in this connection, it should be stressed that, despite these advances, a significant part of the population still lacks access to these technologies. it should also be noted that there are still economic barriers which restrict access to technology or promote differentiated access between citizens. but above all, we want to stress here that, although we are in favour of technological progress in general and digital in particular, we must create a model that puts these advances at the service of humanity and not at the service of a few oligopolies. unfortunately, the reality shows that the digitisation of the economy has fuelled precariousness at work. digitalization of education can help, but it cannot replace the presence of the teacher, nor can it fuel mass layoffs and more exploitation, and above all, it cannot replace the role of the state in ensuring equal access to university education for all citizens.
madam president, portugal is facing an unprecedented drought situation which requires urgent support. the latest data available from the portuguese institute of the sea and the atmosphere indicate that by the end of june, 80% of mainland portugal was in severe or extreme drought. in addition, 18 of the continent's 60 dams started a summer with less than half of the water they can store. according to the dry weather index, on 30 july the dry weather situation remained in almost the whole territory of mainland portugal, with an increase in its intensity compared to the previous month. in addition to fires, the damage caused by the drastic decrease in crop productivity and the lack of water and fertilizer for livestock is already starting to be estimated at several hundred million euros in various sectors of agriculture and livestock. in this very serious context, we say that it is not just the advance payments of cap aid to farmers that are coming. we must go further, by mobilising the european union's solidarity fund, adapting its regulation so that it can act now, in order to minimise an impending social, economic and environmental catastrophe.
madam president, on 23 august last the brazilian government published a decree providing for the extinction of the cobre and associates national reserve, a territory in the amazon of some 4 million hectares which includes nine protected areas including state forests, ecological reserves and indigenous lands, which immediately gave rise to the massacre of isolated indians in the amazon due to gold prospecting and the slaughter of birds, as reported by the national indian foundation (funai). the subsequent suspension of that order by a federal judge is merely provisional in nature and the second government order, which repealed the first, only opens more loopholes for exploitation in some of these sites. ladies and gentlemen, at a time when negotiations between the european union and mercosur are gaining momentum - and could lead to a political agreement before the end of this year - the european union cannot but urge the brazilian authorities to preserve the indigenous environmental reserves of one of the largest continuous stretches of tropical forest on the planet. the brazilian indians and the amazon, also known as the 'lungs of the world', cannot continue to be constantly threatened by economic interests.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner - welcome to parliament - mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, people, all over the world, are increasingly turning to digital technologies and services. digital transformation is now an absolutely unstoppable process, and history teaches us that letting technology decide the future of societies has never worked out well. we must be the ones to decide the future of technology and, above all, we must be the ones to determine what we can do with this technology to make a society more decent, more just, safer, more sustainable, with more opportunities and a better quality of life for people, and this choice is a challenge in which we can and must involve european citizens. this is an opportunity to motivate these citizens to participate in the rebuilding of european society. it's an opportunity to reconnect them with the european project. the wifi4eu initiative is an important step towards achieving this reconnection goal and towards realising this vision. providing all europeans with free and unrestricted access to high-quality internet in public places is a highly symbolic measure that has great political force and has great transformative potential. it is, in fact, such a powerful measure that the president of the european commission used it last year in his state of the union address as one of the anchors of his speech. the challenge that was then given, the most noble moment of the commission's accountability to the europeans, was followed by a stimulating work of mobilization and negotiation that has brought us to this point. networking with the regions, businesses, civil society, institutions and governments has led to the legislation we are debating today. the proposal under consideration guarantees neutrality in the access to the internet. it also ensures that the best technology is selected for each case. it ensures access, regardless of geographical location and also of the income of users. it does not discriminate against any person or any territory. it has a simple application system and a single validation, and therefore wifi4eu is the embryo of a competitive and inclusive european gigabit society. it is, in fact, the embryo of a european digital identity that will result from the inclusion of our common values in the new digital society. i would like to thank all those who have worked with me on this draft report. i thank the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, which have worked closely with the european parliament, the commission and the council from the outset. i thank the european commission and the council for their convergence in the continuing search for good political, economic, technical and financial solutions. i would like to thank all my colleagues in the european parliament, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for the strength and enthusiasm with which they have contributed actively. i thank the technical and political secretariats, who have always been available for a job that was not easy but which has brought us to the right place, opening up new opportunities for people. i therefore call for the adoption of the legislative act under discussion. it is important that the first applications are made this year and that the roots of wifi4eu begin to spread throughout the union. i'm done, wifi4eu is a small step. it is a small step for us, but it is a big step for the european union to take a leading role in developing an inclusive, open, transparent, creative and people-friendly digital society. let us join in this idea for a better future for the european union and the world.
madam president, welcome, madam commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work. i think this report is important for a number of reasons, but above all because it puts a very strong social dimension on what i believe is a daily need. wireless internet access in public spaces free of charge and free is a project of this house of which i am proud and i say it without any problem. we must, however, ensure that, for this investment to be effective, technical support, information and resources must go above all to the most remote areas, to rural areas, to the people and communities who do not have access to it, and i believe that in this dimension we will have to continue to do work. it is important to ensure that access can be financed for everyone and for that reason i once again welcome the work that has been done. but we have to continue to evaluate so that this money, this resource, this technical support, this information does not reach the same people as before, because digital exclusion is a reality. i believe that this report is an important step towards combating digital exclusion and we must continue to work towards this.
madam president, commissioner, it is a pleasure to see you in your new duties. i would like to leave just two brief notes: firstly, to congratulate myself and the commission on the presentation of this proposal. it has a totally innovative voucher and simplified application system, which is able to ensure the financing of free wi-fi equipment in various public spaces. this measure will cover areas in at least 6,000 municipalities in all member states - a number that could rise to 8,000 municipalities if there are sufficient applications. and a second note to welcome the work of this house, the rapporteur carlos zorrinho, who was able to introduce a lot of improvements to the initial document in a very useful joint work led by the itre committee, but which involved three other committees through opinions. in the regi committee, of which i was shadow rapporteur, i proposed a number of amendments to the commission's original proposal, which i am pleased to see included in this report, and i refer specifically to the importance of eliminating language barriers on the access page and the inclusion of the principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion in the wording of this regulation, in accordance with article 174 of the lisbon treaty. i would like to conclude by asking the commission to implement these ideas, which are therefore part of this regulation, rapidly within the union.
i would like to thank again all my colleagues and the european commission for their constructive support. after the success of roam like at home, we now have a new challenge: high quality, free wi-fi near home. it is the kind of programmes that link the european project to the concrete needs of citizens and, as the commissioner has said, we now have enormous potential to provide innovative services. the content is very important for the success of this project and at the same time, there is also another challenge which is the dissemination of digital skills. this programme solves almost everything, except the lack of digital skills of many europeans, but it challenges us to respond to this. this is a path we have to take. this is only the first step - i have two minutes, madam president - of a long journey, but i am convinced that, having managed to mobilise, in a complex technical negotiation, 120 million euros to start with, we will be able to bring together structural funds, national funds, public and private funds, to have a very robust, very strong and very important process for the future of europe.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union and the member states should strongly support the maintenance of the global moratorium on commercial whaling and the ban on international trade in whale products. in fact, despite the fact that the international whaling commission has imposed a worldwide moratorium on commercial whaling, the truth is that norway continues to hunt whales. in fact, norway even increased its exports of whale meat sharply in 2017. it is noted that whale products are exported from norway to japan via at least three ports in the european union and the european union, by allowing this transit, is facilitating trade in whale species that are protected by european legislation and whose hunting violates the international prohibition of commercial whaling. the commission should therefore assess all possibilities to ensure that whale meat cannot be shipped illicitly through european union ports and the council and the commission should adopt a common approach at future meetings of the international whaling commission on whaling and should establish contacts with third countries in order to achieve a majority in favour of the establishment of whale sanctuaries. with the adoption of this resolution, the european union is sending a clear signal of its rejection of this barbaric and inhumane practice.
mr president, i fully support what mrs lunacek has just said to mrs alliot-marie and i would remind her that it was under the french presidency that this common position became a common position. i thank my colleague mr bodil valero, on this line, for the report which identified the problem of arms export control in the european union and that several member states, including france, are not complying with the common position, systematically violating its eight criteria. the most obvious example is the export of arms to saudi arabia. the european parliament called in february 2016 for an arms embargo on the european union due to the criminal war of aggression in yemen and could talk about many other aspects, but the case of saudi arabia cannot deny the other cases, but it is a case. the transfer of arms, regardless of the nature of the importing regime, fuels conflict and repression, with disproportionate effects on civilians, threatens global security and our security in europe, because arms exported to third countries re-enter the european union through arms trafficking and can end up in the hands of terrorist groups, as has been the case in france, for example. it is essential that we create an independent supervisory authority and a standardised verification and notification mechanism for member states with sanctions. it is urgent that post-export controls be carried out to ensure that arms are not re-exported to destinations and end-users which do not meet the common position criteria and it is also crucial to ensure that the united kingdom, post-brexit, remains legally bound by the common position.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner - high representative, i have repeatedly stressed that the response to this crisis is two-tiered and two-time: responding to the humanitarian emergency that requires immediate action and through structural measures that focus on the problems at the root and that are necessarily medium and long-term. well, the truth is, we've been in emergency mode for three years. serious and effective measures, in conjunction with the countries of origin and transit, have fallen far short of what is needed. how can we be announcing again measures that had been agreed and planned at the valletta summit, which took place in 2015? how can we still expect contributions from member states to the african fund? i was pleased to see the joint statement you made with president macron and other heads of state. however, there were - again - more declarations of intent and with little novelty. one last word: when we realised the scale of the problem in greece we negotiated an agreement with turkey to reduce arrivals on the greek coast. when an increase in arrivals in italy followed, we increased our cooperation with libya, including operations of a military nature. today we are wondering what to do with the people who, in ever increasing numbers, are arriving in spain... commissioner - high representative, we need structural responses. the union's foreign policy, which you coordinate, is crucial in this context. this house expects a greater commitment from you and the member states.
it is frustrating to continue to debate this issue as if it were a natural part of our crisis agenda. for us and for you too, mrs. mogherini. on the one hand, we have a council which is concerned with defining the concept of solidarity, without ever discussing the dublin proposal for a regulation. what's the matter? in parliament we are ready to move forward and we will not stop insisting on the elimination of the first country of entry criterion, on automatic relocation and on legal and safe channels for migrants and refugees, so that we do not continue to feed the business of human traffickers. the commission and the council are also continuing the erroneous practice of replicating the eu-turkey declaration with third countries, with other third countries, in particular with libya, where the unhcr has no formal and legal presence and which the european union has allowed to be undermined by its current inability to govern. externalising responsibilities and borders is a recipe for discrediting the european union and for more insecurity inside and outside it. it is urgent to break this vicious circle, to tell the truth to our citizens. we need refugees and migrants to combat the demographic decline of our societies, and we will not block their entry, if not through the door, through the window.
mr president, commissioner, turkey's backsliding on democracy, the rule of law and respect for minorities, including the serious violations of human rights in the kurdish conflict, and the turkish government's recent attempts to interfere in the german election campaign, in the impasse over the cyprus problem, do not allow negotiations to continue for that country's accession to the european union. however, because of our historical relationship, because of turkey's strategic importance between two continents, because of its economic and military power, but also because of the challenges we share in managing the migration crisis and the fight against the terrorism of the islamic state, europe cannot afford to ignore and antagonize ankara. ladies and gentlemen, while i believe that the accession negotiations must be stopped sine die, i do believe, however, that the european union should not turn its back on turkey and its people and should, on the contrary, maintain a serious and robust dialogue with the turkish authorities and urge the turkish state to comply with its international commitments to defend fundamental rights and freedoms. the turkish people are not erdogan, and i am sure that one day they will be free from the yoke of oppression.
mr president, mr commissioner, we have been discussing the venezuelan question here for two or three years now, almost systematically, and we have repeatedly called for both sides to commit themselves and to promote dialogue through mediation, including by international bodies which are above suspicion. unfortunately, the result of all this is the strengthening of a despotic regime which has called into question the fundamental freedoms of the venezuelan people, which has called into question the principle of the separation of powers, which has promoted the phantom election of a constituent assembly which is not truly representative of the sovereign people of venezuela and which has plunged the country into a real humanitarian crisis. today venezuela is experiencing a real humanitarian catastrophe. this means that all the calls we have made for dialogue and compromise have been in vain. i will not go so far as to say that we should not go down that road. it is obvious that this path is one that must be followed to the limit. but i must also say that we cannot, from my point of view and in my own personal opinion, stand by and watch, and that is why i am at this moment very open-minded about the possibility of applying selective sanctions to some of the leading figures in venezuela, because i am sure that this can contribute to undermining the hard core of an absolutely despotic regime which is undermining the fundamental rights of venezuelans.
madam president, it is not necessary to describe in detail the economic, political and social crisis in which venezuela has been plunged for too long, but it is never too much to demand answers, to demand support, in the face of a regime which has already taken the lives of more than 130 people and which daily restricts the freedom of thousands of citizens. the criticism of the repeated violations of human rights is not limited to this house. today, too, the united nations high commissioner for human rights has spoken out on this emergency, and yesterday pope francis gave voice to the call by thousands for an end to this humanitarian crisis. how long and how many more votes will be needed? fear is still rampant and the october 15th elections are just around the corner. the fear is that this will be an instrument to silence once again the candidates who oppose the dictatorial regime. i would ask you to take this message to mrs mogherini, who is unfortunately not here today, to tell her that humanitarian aid is not reaching the people properly, that the government is preventing the entry of medicine and food. in june i asked mrs mogherini: what is the union doing in terms of humanitarian corridors? i am not satisfied with the answer i received, and so, because it is evasive, i put it back: what guarantees do you give us today and what guarantees do the venezuelans have that this aid will reach them? since last year, madeira has received about 3,000 first-generation immigrants, of portuguese descent and their spouses. venezuelans keep coming in too. i ask what mechanisms, what support, what funds can the union make available to its member states to support venezuelans fleeing their own country? the violation of the principles of the rule of law is not a parallel reality, as the portuguese far-left shamelessly proclaims. parallel reality seems, yes, a world in which communists elevate and support this kind of regime.
mr president, commissioner, i am well aware of the european union's commitment to contributing to a solution to the serious crisis in venezuela. the situation has been getting worse. the european union cannot be a kind of privileged observer. we have to be solid, measured actors. the call for negotiation and compromise between the parties, while meritorious, benefits those who are in default and without compromise in sight. we must work with determination on safeguards and the consequences for those who flagrantly break them. the venezuelan people have been deeply martyred. so sanctions that make life even more difficult for the venezuelan people are not a good solution. but measures to make life more difficult for those leaders who repeatedly offend against the principles of democratic legality are urgent and increasingly unavoidable.
mr president, a few days ago, nicolás maduro said that he was ready to become a dictator if that was necessary to stabilize prices and to revive his country's turbulent economy. pure delusion, nicolás maduro is not willing to become a dictator. nicolás maduro is already a dictator and it's not because he's worried about prices or the economy of venezuela. coming from someone who destroyed the economy of one of the richest countries in the world, just for an anecdote, an argument like that. nicolás maduro doesn't mind being a dictator, even if that means, as it means, throwing an entire people into poverty, as he did. a president who, as denounced by the un, allows the torture, arbitrary arrests and death of venezuelan protesters is a dictator. a president who isolates his country from the international democratic community is a dictator. a president who annihilates private property, kills the free press and nationalizes the means of production, is a dictator. a president who silences a parliament because he has a majority against him and stages an election to create a constituent assembly of his own colour is a dictator. st. augustine said that as long as there is the will to fight, there is hope of victory. venezuela will win and the more i hear the extreme right here linked to the extreme left in the exact same arguments, the more i am sure of this. venezuela will win, the democracies will win.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, enough of the stories and the fantasies: the reality is that the various resolutions condemning the repression of the maduro regime adopted in this house and the attempts of the international community to mediate have not only failed to create a space for dialogue to restore constitutional order and democracy in venezuela, but have also failed to prevent the creation of a body usurping the legislative powers of the democratically elected national assembly, nor have they led to the release of the 603 oppositionists - 13 of them of european origin - who remain imprisoned for political reasons, or even to the opening of a humanitarian channel. in this connection i would draw your attention to a news item today which shows the criminal intention of the venezuelan government to deny its citizens access to health care by prohibiting the entry into the country of 900 containers of medicines from latin america. the seriousness of this political and humanitarian crisis makes it urgent for the union to take individual and selective measures against those responsible for this situation, including for possible crimes against humanity, according to the words of the united nations high commissioner for human rights himself. contrary to what the venezuelan regime and the extreme left claim, this is not a declaration of economic war from abroad. it is about supporting a peaceful transition in that country and honouring the memory of the 130 venezuelans who have lost their lives since april simply for demanding respect for the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and democracy in their country.
mr president, the hatred that is being distilled here is the neo-colonial hatred of those who despise and reject the idea that a people - sovereignly - should take the reins of its destiny into its own hands. this is what the venezuelan people have been doing for 18 years, rejecting the yoke and capitalist exploitation, building a distinct model of society that has managed, in this period, to achieve a breakthrough in social, political, cultural and educational development that few or no countries in the european union can claim. your hatred, projected by the media through lies, promotes and feeds a reactionary, fascist right wing which in venezuela - with the support of the united states and the european union - has promoted in recent years an increasingly disproportionate increase in violence and a profound economic and social destabilization. a hatred that targets sanctions that ignore the constitutional norm of the country. the same hatred that now imposes criminal sanctions against venezuela, of which the venezuelan people will be the first victims, spreading hunger and misery through a ferocious economic blockade that only serves your economic and geostrategic goals and interests.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating the author of this report. this report is of the utmost importance, both in its timing and in its content, and it is unquestionably a report of high quality. this report has a fundamental political objective: to give a signal from this european parliament as to what relations between the european union and latin america should be. in fact, we have no closer partners in terms of the identity of values, principles, models of political and economic organization than most of the countries that make up latin america. this does not correspond to any neocolonial vision, far from it. i do not see in this report any neocolonialist perspective on relations with latin america. what is important is to highlight common values, values which are the values of europe and of the countries of latin america in general, and above all, one thing is important: it is to highlight how much latin america has evolved in recent decades. several democracies have been consolidated, economic development has been taking place, millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, and progress is being made towards consolidating the rule of law. many of the crises that some countries are facing are crises of growth and maturation of their democratic processes, such as the case i know best, for obvious reasons, which is the case of brazil, which is a country that is going through difficulties but which correspond to the consolidation of a democracy associated with a rule of law. i therefore conclude by stressing once again the importance of a report of this kind.
commissioner, in foreign policy, as in almost everything in life, the most urgent is not always the most important. the report we are discussing today reinforces the conviction that relations between the european union and latin america are important, despite the fact that the world is full of conflicts and disputes that are, or are potentially, more prominent in the media and more politically attractive. latin america and the european union, in addition to a strong shared identity, also share the fact that they are victims of deregulated globalization. if we want, and i know we do, to reclaim our global voice and affirm an agenda of sustainability and humanism, we need to work together and give clear signals of a strategic alliance. and trade agreements are a privileged vehicle for translating intentions into action. we have good experience with latin american countries. the conclusion of a trade agreement with mercosur will therefore be a decisive step towards the re-establishment of the geostrategic balance and the consolidation of relations between our peoples.
the close cultural, linguistic, political and historical ties between the european union and the countries of latin america make it vital to develop a shared agenda and to strengthen cooperation in defining the union's major foreign policy priorities. the growing protectionism in the world calls for the strengthening of the union's mutually beneficial bilateral and multilateral economic partnerships in the region, but, beyond the trade side, it is important, in a political context, to strengthen interparliamentary cooperation and to value the continued promotion of democratic values and human rights, including the defence of the property rights of the indigenous peoples of brazil on the lands they have traditionally occupied, the fight against climate change and cooperation in the field of research and innovation. the strengthening of cooperation between the two regional blocs therefore plays a key role in diversifying the economies of both regions and in promoting a more sustainable, more democratic and more inclusive development. and because it is a question of the european union's political relations with latin america, i conclude by invoking the heroic martyred people of venezuela who are dying at the hands of a bloodthirsty regime and by calling on this parliament to do everything possible to alleviate the suffering of this brotherly people.
mr president, this is the moment for us, as a last shot, to have real vision and ambition. what is at stake for this legislature? it is indeed to develop the european house and to move to the next stage, a new floor. it is to make europe not only a single market or a eurozone, but also a political entity able to respond to the new world in front of us. we need the european union to be a big democratic power, supporting our way of life and making sure that we have the means to deliver our values and our way of life. we need new means for peace and security, to manage migration and to support development. but to have this, we need a brand new community budget for the future, based on new own resources; we need to turn to the future and not the past. this means, when it comes to own resources, that big corporations should pay their taxes because while they should benefit from the single market, they should pay what they owe. if we have in mind a new democratic political entity, this can only be based on stronger european citizenship, above all fully respecting the fundamental political rights of our citizens, but also making sure that we can count on updated social standards with regard to access to social protection and to skills, but also making sure that everybody in employment, whatever kind of job they have, can count on a decent labour contract and access to social protection. this should be the ambition of the upcoming european social pillar, but can we say that this europe, as a land of equal opportunity, of fairness, is being delivered to all european citizens? we do not think so. europe is still working as a machine for divergence and inequality and we need to reverse this very undermining trend. so we call on the commission to come up with an ambitious proposal for the european budget, turning the european project into a project for equality and convergence. this should apply to the european union as a whole and also to the eurozone. this is our request for the upcoming work of the commission.
mr president, mr president juncker, first of all, let me greet you and thank you for your speech today, which gives new impetus and encouragement to all of us who, like president juncker, love europe. i was going to challenge you here, but it's not in the list of your immediate concerns, at least not the ones you've presented here. there has been a great wave of fires in portugal this year, with tragic consequences, there have been floods all over europe, even now in poland with tragic consequences, we saw last year several earthquakes in italy, also this year in greece, we know that with climate change there will be many of these accidents. would it not be time to create a genuine european civil protection force which, on the one hand, is closely linked to internal security - it can also have rescue missions in the mediterranean, etc. - but which could, whenever there is a major disaster of this kind, in a few hours, go to the disaster site and help the national forces to combat these disasters and to mitigate their consequences? i think it is time we had a european civil protection force which would in many respects be an embryo of what could become a genuine european armed force.
the eu's responsibilities in the deep crisis in which europe has sunk, in the intolerable imbalances and inequalities between states, have been deliberately concealed in this speech. as it turns out, the intent is to force a breakout. to insist on the same paths, the same policies and the same orientations that have brought us to economic and social disaster. but now in a higher dose. more federalism, more neoliberalism, more militarism, and so on and so forth. the direction that the president of the european commission has come here to announce, speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries and promoters of european capitalist integration, is not an inevitability, nor something that the workers and peoples of europe have to accept. on the contrary, i did. the real future of europe is not limited to the scenarios that the eu now sets for its own future. it is the struggle of the workers and peoples of europe for the right to their sovereign development and for breaking with the constraints which prevent it that will define the paths along which the future of the continent will be built. it will be this struggle that will pave the way for a project of solidarity cooperation between sovereign and equal states, based on mutual benefit, peace and social progress. a project which, as is becoming increasingly clear, requires the defeat of the eu.
juncker's state of the union address, in line with others he has delivered throughout his term, conveyed a positive stance on the future of the european union (eu). i stress the importance attached to deepening participatory democracy and transparency, to the need to build a social pillar suited to the new challenges of the global economy, to european leadership in sustainability and clean and smart mobility systems, to the realisation of the energy union and the digital union, to the extension of the euro to all the countries of the union, to the completion of the banking union and the economic and financial union, to the development of the security union and the defence union and to the new generation trade policies to strengthen the eu's global assertiveness. to achieve this vision, a european union must be internally strong and equipped with instruments to promote convergence. the nine's proof of the importance of this speech will come from the presentation of the financial perspectives in spring 2018. if the necessary budgetary reinforcement is in them, including an increase in the union's own resources, then this state of the union speech will have been a strong moment of consolidation of the european project.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is a key element in the realisation of the 2030 climate and energy framework and a crucial step towards a real resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy. climate change is one of the greatest environmental, social and economic threats facing the planet and humanity. every day we see examples of severe and unprecedented weather events that show everyone this truth and this is the time for action. greenhouse gas emissions from aviation activities are increasing significantly. it is estimated that, in the absence of further measures, carbon dioxide emissions from international aviation will almost quadruple by 2050 compared to 2010 levels. ladies and gentlemen, this resolution contributes to the fulfilment of the paris agreement and the ambitious target set by the international civil aviation organisation of global co2 emissions from international aviation not exceeding 2020 levels. the european union continues to lead the fight against climate change and this resolution is an example of this.
mr president, in the debate we had on this report on monday, i called for a vote in favour. the envi committee's commitment was a balanced commitment and today i was forced to vote against this report because of the amendments which were tabled and voted in favour. these are amendments which, once again, promote the lobby of the timber industry, which do not take into account the diversity of the territories, which allow flexibility instead of a common reference period, that is to say, we have put the interests of one or two countries of the european union here because they make the forest their business above the interests of all the european citizens of all the countries. it's true that fires produce emissions. it is true that we have to promote biodiversity. but it's also true that cutting wood, cutting, cutting and cutting for business also produces emissions. with all that flexibility and no reference period, we're at the mercy of the deal, but we lose everybody. i had to change my vote.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the fight against corruption should be given priority attention. corruption is a complex global phenomenon affecting both north and south and is caused by the inability of political, economic and judicial systems to ensure robust independent oversight and accountability. corruption costs the european union between 179 and 990 billion euros in terms of gdp per year, and, according to the world bank, approximately one trillion dollars worth of bribes are paid annually worldwide. the european union must show strong and unwavering opposition. in this context, the european union should enhance the transparency and accountability of its official development assistance and develop a robust global risk management system to prevent development aid from contributing to corruption in recipient countries. it is about contributing to the direct and explicit fight against impunity through its external policies. i therefore consider it important that the european union should now include an anti-corruption clause alongside human rights clauses in its agreements with third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that it took a tragedy at grenfell tower, which took the lives of dozens of people, for us to have this debate for the first time and for the member states and the european commission to take seriously the problems of the safety of our buildings. i have seen this film with the european emergency number and it does not satisfy me that much. the grenfell tragedy happened in london, but it could have happened in lisbon, paris or tallinn. this is a european problem and it must be tackled at european level. fire safety standards vary between member states. some are better than others, but they're all failing. the principle of subsidiarity cannot and should not be a shield against washing our hands and our consciences. a danish firefighter associated with the fire safe europe movement, who is outside this house, has drawn my attention to the fact that while he and his colleagues are confident in dealing with fires inside a room, when it comes to external facades they cannot control the rapid spread of the flames. this is due to the introduction of highly flammable materials into our buildings and the fact that the member states have not updated the regulations on fires, the new materials coming onto the market and also the toxicity of the fumes from their combustion. the bbc has just revealed the high-risk combustion of the chemicals found in the london tragedy. it is a matter of urgency that the commission should take a strong and decisive decision on this matter, and i urge all members to pledge their support to a single objective: the safety of our citizens. against the fire, there's no time to lose. it's time to act.
mr president, in june we watched in horror as the fire that destroyed grenfell tower claimed 79 lives. we now know that the tower was built in the 1970s and rehabilitated last year. however, the new coating was never tested for fire resistance and residents' complaints were never addressed. we all know that prevention is of the utmost importance in managing fire risk. last week i was with firefighters from all over europe who were in parliament urging the european union institutions to act for the safety of buildings and to prioritise building safety standards which would involve more effective methods of fire testing, on the facades, harmonised labelling and improved consumer information, as well as the development of a european strategy aiming at an integrated and coordinated approach in this area. commissioner, if the responsibility for establishing the rules on safety limits in buildings lies with the member states, the life, health and well-being of european citizens is a collective responsibility of all of us, which no principle or rule of subsidiarity can be invoked to remove.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the statistical information system is a very good one. better statistics can help to better understand reality and therefore to make possibly more informed and consequential decisions. it is true that we agree with the extension of the programme for the period 2018-2020, with its link to the achievement of the 2030 agenda, with the increase of the budget allocated to it, but also with some improvements made to the european commission's project, namely the introduction of employment indicators, which distinguish employment with fixed-term contracts and with permanent contracts and the request that progress be made towards developing a conceptual framework for the production of statistical data series that measure and comply with tax rules, tax avoidance and evasion. however, it is also true that we cannot entirely agree that the focus of this extension is to support 10 political priorities of the european commission such as the european semester, the europe 2020 strategy, the better regulation initiative and the european energy union, on which we have many reservations.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for coming. we have seen the trail of destruction left by hurricane irma, which in a historic fury has devastated homes, caused a high number of casualties and caused severe damage to infrastructure structures. the annual estimate is about $100 billion, which is equivalent to half a percentage point of the gdp of the united states. climate change is one of the greatest environmental, social, economic threats facing the planet and humanity. every day we see examples of severe weather events that demonstrate this truth to all of us: hurricanes of increasing intensity, cyclones of maximum intensity that are becoming more frequent, and the warming of the oceans, with the result that some 200 million climate refugees will be created in the coming years. this is an inconvenient truth for the president of the united states. nobel prize winner stiglitz wrote that under president trump's leadership, the united states has taken another important step toward confirming itself as a rogue state by abandoning the paris agreement. climate change is a challenge and the european union must be prepared for this challenge.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ulrike rodust, on her work, and thanks to the good work she has done, there are few amendments to vote on, but most of them are still very relevant. we hear a lot about sustainability in this house. it's almost a necessary word for any politically correct discourse, especially when it comes to environmental issues or natural resource exploitation. however, when the time comes to decide, we find that the votes have to please the voters already today, forgetting that sustainability is not even for tomorrow, it is for the day after tomorrow, or another day, it should be forever. we have to end this vicious, populist cycle and become coherent. the common fisheries policy adopted in this house in 2013 is crystal clear. overfishing should have become a thing of the past for the european union. for those springs for which it was not possible to end overfishing by 2015, this should be done by 2020 at the latest. how do you do that? it's easy: sustainable fishing limits apply. the multiannual plans, and in this case the multiannual plan for the north sea, must include exploitation limits that do not exceed the maximum sustainable yield. if we want to be truly sustainable, this is the way. if we do not follow this path then, in spite of the truth, let us stop saying that we want sustainability. it is essential that this report be adopted and that we proceed to the trilogue. the fishermen operating in the north sea need a stable and functional legal framework to serve as a basis for the negotiations on the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, so time is indeed an essential element in this process.
commissioner, i listened to your speech with interest and i agree with everything you said. i'm from the czech republic, where support for european integration has been declining recently. erasmus is a huge, visible, successful project that can be used to explain clearly and quickly what europe brings, for example to young people. the visibility of this program is absolutely extraordinary, in addition to its success. my colleagues here have spoken about some things that should be improved in the programme in the future. first of all, it's money. i also agree that 5% of young people is not enough, that we should invest much more in this project in the future and expand the circle of young people. second, i don't think this program should be geared primarily to college students. let's do everything we can to make sure that other young people actually benefit more from this programme - learners, high school students, mostly university students. thirdly, let us do more to ensure that not only young people from the so-called new member states go to the 'old member states', but that it is more attractive for young people from western europe to study in central europe and in the new member states of the european union, so that the transfer is reciprocal. as mr juncker said today, europe has two lungs. and the last thing is the practical problems that have been mentioned here. i know students who have refused erasmus for reasons of such practical difficulties that they simply could not complete their basic studies. so there are practical problems to be solved.
mr president, 30 years after its creation, the erasmus programme is now a world reference in the field of the internationalisation of education and has become one of the targets of the detractors of the european project because it is one of the most successful integration tools of the union, as we hear from the honourable member. the programme has already benefited 9 million young europeans. however, this figure - although impressive - represents less than 5% of young europeans. many are not covered due to socioeconomic factors, funding constraints, inequalities between and within member states, as well as the complexity of the application processes and the lack of consistency in the recognition of the european system for the transfer of credits acquired during the mobility period. it is therefore important that, in the run-up to the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework, the new erasmus+ programme, to be introduced after 2020, should be able to have the additional funding needed to become more accessible, comprehensive and inclusive, and to lose its reputation as elitist. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot and must not forget that erasmus+ is the greatest investment europe can make in itself.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, in the excellent speech which commission president jean-claude juncker made to this parliament this morning, he did not by chance make an initial reference to the importance of international trade and he did so for reasons which we cannot but share. the european union can and must be a key regulator of the ongoing process of globalisation. we are in favour of a european union open to the world and not a european union closed in on old, economically negative and politically unacceptable protectionism. this agreement with chile is of the utmost importance. chile is a partner and a friend of the european union. we have every reason to seek to encourage relations with the countries of latin america. we share values, principles, references, models of political, economic and social organization with most of the countries of latin america. we have very close relations with chile, with whom we very clearly share these values, principles and models, and perhaps that is why it has been easier in this case to move towards the modernisation of this trade agreement by incorporating such important innovations as some of those already mentioned. i would like to highlight the one which is precisely concerned with the question of gender, which is now being incorporated for the first time in a trade agreement. so, you're leaving in a good way. it is clear that trade agreements involve commitments. a trade agreement, essentially, if it's negotiated well, you win, but there's always some gains and some losses. i believe that the current procedure makes it possible to anticipate a final resolution which will be very favourable to the european union. i would like to end by, of course, congratulating the rapporteur for this opinion or this report, this resolution, because it seems to me that once again she has shown with her intelligence and her commitment, her great dedication, what i know is a cause of hers which is precisely to promote relations with latin america in general, in this case we are talking about chile, i hope that soon we will also be able to modernise the agreement with mexico and we will be able to ensure the conclusion of a trade agreement with the mercosur countries.
mr president, i want to support the resolution we are voting on here today because the situation in cambodia is really getting worse. that's something to consider. the regime of prime minister hun sen has never been democratic, never approached the rule of law as we see it in europe, and the situation is getting worse. the arrest of the opposition leader in the middle of this month, which is the news i'm talking about, is really probably the highlight of what hun sen has shown so far. i just want to point out that he himself threatened on 9/11 to dissolve the main opposition party, which means there's still a risk that before the election next year, the main opposition party could be dissolved and the election would be completely distorted. it is really good that the european union is taking an observer role and clearly monitoring more closely how the elections in cambodia will be held next year, because i am very much afraid that if the opposition parties are dissolved, the situation will not be anything like a traditional democratic election.
mr president, earlier this month cambodian opposition leader kem sokha was arbitrarily detained in clear breach of his parliamentary immunity. two days later, he was formally charged with treason by a phnom penh court and faces a sentence of 15 to 30 years in prison. this arrest is the culmination of weeks of political tension that led to the expulsion from cambodia of the american ngo national democratic institute and the closure of 19 radio stations and one of the few independent voices in the written press, the cambodia daily newspaper. what the conviction of kem sokha represents is yet another unacceptable attempt to neutralize the leadership of the main opposition political force, the national rescue party, whose good electoral results in the municipal elections last june now make the hun sen regime fear that the parliamentary elections next july will represent the end of the power it has held in that south-west asian country since 1985. ladies and gentlemen, this house cannot but condemn the detention of kem sokha and call on the cambodian authorities to release him immediately and to respect fundamental freedoms and the most elementary rules of the democratic game.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, last week, indeed, was a very sad week for cambodia’s fragile democracy, a sad week for the freedom of the press – as many of you have said – and a sad week for the people of cambodia. the arrest of the opposition leader, kem sokha, on 3 september and the closure of the cambodia daily the day after add to a long list of very serious developments in the country. these include continued restrictions on the freedom of expression, the closure of radio stations, arrests of members of the main opposition party and civil society actors. it is clear that this is a dangerous political escalation. these events suggest a further effort to restrict the space for democratic debate, independent media and civil society ahead of next year’s general elections. the continued use of judicial processes against opposition politicians and ngo figures is widely seen as politically motivated. on our side, as you have recognised, the european union has called on the authorities to release kem sokha immediately. earlier this year we made our voice heard very clearly when cambodia amended the law on political parties twice to introduce provisions that would potentially allow for arbitrary dissolution of political parties. such actions against opposition parties would cast a shadow on the july 2018 elections and ultimately call into question the very legitimacy of the vote. with regard to the elections, the european union has provided support worth eur 10 million to electoral reform, primarily through an improved voter registration process. we have worked closely with the cambodian national election committee in support of electoral reform, mainly through an improved voter registration process. our support has also included technical support on legal and civic education aspects and support to domestic election observation and monitoring of election-related violence. we will monitor closely the updates of the voters’ list that began on 1 september. we also deployed an eu election expert mission to cambodia to follow the local elections last june. the eu delegation, to which some of you have referred, in close coordination with eu embassies and like-minded members of the international community, sent diplomatic observers to polling stations on election day. we have continuously urged the cambodian authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure the conditions for credible, transparent and inclusive elections whose results will command the confidence of cambodia’s voters. the eu has also expressed deep concern over the adoption by the cambodian parliament of amendments, as i said, to the law on political parties, and i have heard your considerations on the possibility of sending a fully-fledged eu election observation mission to the next political elections. if the political situation is conducive to a credible election process and if invited by the government, the european union would be ready to consider the deployment of an eu election observation mission for the national elections due to be held in july next year. i believe that political developments in the coming weeks and months will be a key factor in assessing our possible deployment. the european union and its member states, on another issue that is also important: i have been proud to support the reconstruction and the development of the country from the very beginning. we have an important envelope of development cooperation with cambodia that is embedded in a multi-annual cooperation programme for the period 2014-2020. all our programmes are implemented subject to close monitoring and on the basis of political and policy dialogue with the government. the respect of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law are fundamental elements in our development policy and are closely monitored in this context. our development cooperation with cambodia is long term, and i have to tell you very clearly that any consideration regarding the possible suspension of cooperation would have to be carefully evaluated in terms of its impact, especially on the poor and vulnerable population, on people’s livelihoods and on better access for children to schools. these are the first priority in helping the cambodian people. a large part of cambodia’s population is still very vulnerable, and we will continue to closely monitor the situation and to use our development cooperation to improve the situation of the population. cambodia has also been granted access to the european markets under the everything but arms scheme, which has served as an important driver of the country’s economic growth. you might be surprised that, despite our geographical distance, the european union is today cambodia’s biggest export market. but we also believe, as i said, that there can be no sustainable development with no human rights and no democratic guarantees, so we are using, and will continue to use, all the available channels to ask, and work, for a substantial change in the current political trends. the european union is ready to continue to work with cambodia towards a consolidation of its democracy and an equitable economic growth, but we look to the authorities of the country to take all the necessary steps to ensure that all political parties, civil society and the media can carry out their activities without fear, as should be the case in any functioning democracy.
in writing. at a time when cambodia, laos and other issues are being discussed, salah hamouri, a 32-year-old palestinian activist, was arrested on august 23 by the israeli union at his jerusalem residence and sentenced by a military court to a six-month administrative prison sentence, which can be extended indefinitely without any reason. this situation affects hundreds of thousands of palestinians today. salah hamouri has already spent 7 years in israeli prisons for a "crime of intent" related to a never proven attempt to assassinate a far-right religious leader and belonging to the popular front for the liberation of palestine. this administrative conviction is based on a secret dossier inaccessible to the defence lawyers and is the direct result of a decision by the israeli minister of defence, avigdor liberman, who is known for his racist, anti-arab and anti-palestinian statements. it is reported that salah hamouri's wife along with their son were and are prevented from entering jerusalem. only the passivity of the eu and the united states allows israel to continue its policy of sabotaging the peace process, massacring the palestinian population and compromising the creation of an independent state in accordance with un resolutions.
mr president, madam high representative, the rohingya muslims, described by the united nations as a stateless and friendless people in myanmar, have been subjected to torture, neglect and repression since that country's independence in 1948. but now, after an illegitimate and totally disproportionate military response to attacks by an armed rohingya group, atrocities in rakhine state have reached unprecedented proportions and prompted the flight of over 300,000 refugees to bangladesh, where many of them are in urgent need of humanitarian aid. this brutal repression and the persistent serious violations of human rights mean, unfortunately, the death of the hope for consolidation of democracy and national reconciliation that the elections of november 2015 represented for many. parliament cannot but strongly condemn all the attacks in rakhine state and remind mrs aung san suu kyi, state councillor of myanmar and de facto leader of the country, that as the winner of the 1990 nobel peace prize, she has special responsibilities in promoting religious and ethical tolerance and in combating all forms of radicalism, and cannot remain silent in the face of this real humanitarian catastrophe.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in july i called for a debate on forest fires. at present, only portugal and spain are affected. today we have croatia, france, greece and italy, which shows the extent of this sad reality. in fact, in my country alone, 214,000 hectares of forest have burned this year and up to 31 august. this represents more than 234% of the area burned than the average of the last ten years for the same period and it is therefore important to know whether the commission envisages the flexible application of the solidarity fund as now requested. it's that the people on the ground need immediate help.
mr president, that is what i asked for. it was precisely for the next question that i asked to speak. as the president urged me to use the floor, i did so now.
mr president, i apologize for what has happened and i thank you for your understanding in giving me the floor. in july i called for this debate on forest fires. as i said, only portugal and spain are affected at present, and today we have croatia, france, greece and italy, which shows the extent of this sad reality. in fact, in my country alone, 214,000 hectares of forest have burned this year and up to 31 august. this represents more than 234% of the area burned than the average of the last ten years for the same period and in the context of european aid it is important to know whether the commission envisages the flexible application of the solidarity fund, as is now requested here. the fact is that, commissioner, on the ground, the people need immediate help and, if national governments are the first ones to be responsible for this aid, it is also important that they know in good time the european amounts allocated to them. i would therefore like to stress once again the absolute need for rapid, simplified and flexible aid to the families of the survivors, to the workers who have lost their jobs, to the firms affected, to the fire brigades and to the local authorities. here too the european union can help, according to the information given to us by the commissioner, and which is already being given in my country.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a building. two months after the approval of the budgetary increase for the solidarity fund, it is important to establish the amounts actually made available to the country, as well as to understand how they were mobilized and how support was given to victims and populations, on the one hand, and to structural ecological recovery, on the other. but we take this opportunity to reinforce what we have long advocated: the need to change the rules for mobilising the fund, ensuring a more flexible, timely mobilisation and covering a wider range of disasters, but also to affirm that defending the forest and preventing fires requires a different policy and financial and human resources. the community approach to disaster prevention and many of the proposals that this parliament approved in 2010 - notably the proposal to create a financial framework appropriate to disaster prevention capable of financing actions in areas such as forest management or the maintenance of agricultural activity in areas affected by depopulation - are still far from being implemented. much remains to be done and action and measures to this end are urgently needed.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are, of course, worried about the violent situation and the lack of dialogue in catalonia. nevertheless, the problem is larger than this. that is why the s&d group is proposing the following title: this should be a debate and a commission statement ‘on the constitution, rule of law and fundamental rights in spain in the light of the events in catalonia’. this is the title that my group is proposing and it is also backed by other groups.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, and a number of shadow rapporteurs, including isabelle thomas and, on behalf of envi, renata briano. the work you have done is important and your speed in this case contrasts with the slowness of the commission. it took almost 10 years for the commission to fulfil this obligation, leaving the european union in international default. this transposition of iccat provisions into european law promotes the use of artisanal fishing gear with a lower environmental impact and local vessels. portugal, and in particular the azores, where i come from, has been advocating this strategy because it helps to build and stimulate a fairer, more equitable and more resilient economy. industrial fishing certainly has its place, but it cannot strangle traditional fishing communities. as the regulation clearly provides, member states are called upon to use transparent and objective criteria, including environmental, social and economic criteria, in allocating opportunities and are required to grant incentives to eu fishing vessels using selective fishing gear or fishing techniques with a reduced impact on the environment. i have argued for this point of view in this parliament and in my own country on several occasions, particularly with regard to the allocation of the quota for the azores. as it is now stated, there must be an obligation to try to distribute national quotas fairly among the different segments of the fleet, taking into account traditional and small-scale fishing. the new regulation calls for the extension of the ban on transhipment at sea in non-eu waters and these positions are in line with the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. we must maintain the european union's leading position in defending sustainable development and combating iuu fishing. to ensure this, we must strengthen the observer programmes, using the full potential of the data collection regulation which we have recently adopted here. finally, i would like to mention that tuna fisheries in general are in crisis. every good news is followed by bad news. the great tuna schools that once visited ocean islands, such as the azores, annually have stopped doing so. there may be a number of explanations for this, but i am almost certain that the use of fish aggregating devices in tropical waters must bear some responsibility. the use of these devices was rampant in the past but remains excessive at present and, most importantly, these devices continue to be used without the corresponding environmental impact study. in the azores, we fish with line and hook, we refuse to use industrial nets. each fisherman uses only one hook, and yet our fisheries were profitable. not today! they have to solve the problem upstream, making sure that the springs stay healthy and can cross the oceans again. this is in our hands.
mr president, commissioner vella, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, tuna and tuna-like species are highly migratory species, exploited for commercial fishing throughout their geographical distribution by fleets of different nationalities, with a very varied fishing effort and using very different fishing gear. the sustainability of marine biological resources should be a major concern for all of us. however, i believe that this sustainability must not be blind, that is to say, it must also take account of long-term economic and social sustainability, and in this connection i cannot fail to mention the situation of fishermen and their families, who are in a situation of crisis, of lack of income, even if they are working harder and risking their lives. i am speaking in particular of fishermen in coastal areas, in the outermost regions such as the azores, who are increasingly suffering from a shortage of marine biological resources, namely fish. that is why this proposal is so important, because it is designed to balance all these aspects, especially as regards the tunisians. here too, year after year, both fishermen and our tuna industry see fewer and fewer resources, less tuna, putting in question the sustainability of this important activity in my region, the azores, thus threatening hundreds of direct and indirect jobs because, at a certain point, either for climatic reasons, which led to the change of the migratory routes of the tuna, or for human reasons, with aggressive fishing techniques by others that greatly reduce the individuals who manage to make this migration. the azores' fisheries are therefore part of the cultural and regional heritage and constitute a highly relevant socioeconomic activity. the azoreans are highly dependent on fishing and marine resources play a key role in the local economy and employment, including in the fishing-related industries, notably the tuna canning industry. commissioner, what we are here to discuss today is to harmonize and extend the scope of the iccat recommendations. i wanted to leave two very clear messages here: the first is equal treatment between european fleets and those of third countries. we cannot continue to impose more restrictive and limiting rules on our fishermen than on other fleets which often fail to respect the most basic principles of european standards. the second message is that we are asking you to commit to taking account of the artisanal fleets, especially those in the outermost regions, such as the azores, because we have been an example at european and world level of the sustainability of tuna fishing. in the azores, tuna are caught by hook and line and, in general, live bait, a highly sustainable fishing technique with little environmental impact and very selective. most of the catches are processed by the locally important tuna canning industry, although fresh tuna is becoming increasingly important because it produces higher prices, especially on the export market. finally, i would also ask you to consider the possibility of increasing the quota for bluefin tuna, whose stock is expanding rapidly and which would in fact be very useful in order to compensate european fishermen for the cut in the quota for swordfish, which, as is generally acknowledged, has suffered a sharp deterioration in its stocks. for all the reasons set out above, the increasing adoption of information collected and managed by iccat is encouraged in order to adopt appropriate management measures that safeguard the interests of operators in the sector who practice highly sustainable fisheries, as is the specific case of the azores.
mr president, the iccat convention, which the european union ratified in 1997, has the technical and scientific responsibility for making specific proposals and recommendations for the conservation and management of tuna fisheries. these are acts which are primarily addressed to the contracting parties but which also contain obligations for private operators, such as shipmasters. we have identified two major contradictions in the commission's position. the first is that the proposal it has put forward with its own recommendations and management measures runs counter to the spirit of the convention, which aims to transpose those recommendations exactly, guaranteeing all fishermen and fleets in the region the same conditions. moreover, given that iccat recommendations enter into force six months after their adoption, it is incomprehensible that the 2008 recommendations, some of which are outdated, are only now being transposed, as is the case with swordfish fisheries in the mediterranean, for which new recommendations were drawn up last november. the delay is a sign of the limitations imposed by the fact that the member states have lost their capacity to manage marine resources for the european union, with inevitable damage to the management of resources at national level but also to the protection of arts which are of particular importance at regional level, because, being handmade, and we take as an example the jumping and pole in the azores or the almadraba in spain, they lack timely measures which ensure, in an uncompromising way, the protection of them and of all the historical, social and cultural heritage, in addition to the economic importance for the communities that maintain and practice them. we believe that the proposals as they have been put forward by iccat should be maintained, with management measures ensuring fishing opportunities, with particular attention to small-scale and artisanal fishing, with a view to the sustainability of tuna stocks. we also think that the commission's attempt to open the way to amendments and to centralise important decisions by means of delegated acts is a negative one. it is therefore considered that the direct transposition of the recommendations of the regional organisations is a more appropriate procedure, ensuring greater equity between the different countries.
mr president, respect for the sovereign and legitimate decision of the british people to leave the european union is not compatible with blackmail, threats or punishment. the deadlock and blockage of negotiations resulting from the contradictions of big british and european capital are not unrelated to an agenda that aims to pervert, circumvent and eventually reverse the decision of the british people. the neoliberal character of the forces involved, the nature of the ruling class on both sides of the negotiations, is evident in the announced intention to maintain and deepen common policies, particularly in the security, militaristic and refugee crisis response areas. in this context, it is essential to affirm the requirement that the rights of immigrants, including portuguese emigrants in the united kingdom, their labour rights and other social rights, such as residence, equal treatment or access to public services, the portability of social security benefits, family reunification or the mutual recognition of academic diplomas and professional qualifications, be ensured in the negotiations.
madam president, for reasons which are largely due to successive mistakes in the economic policy and the management of the refugee crisis in the european union, a majority of the voters in the united kingdom have decided to leave this union. the implementation of this legitimate decision must be carried out in full transparency. protecting the rights of european citizens and the future of the european project within the framework of the treaties is the top priority. portugal has a long tradition of bilateral cooperation with the united kingdom. this cooperation has always been possible within the framework of common membership of the european union. autonomy, identity and cooperation are pillars that do not cancel each other out but rather enhance each other. i am using my country as an example to make the message clearer that we must make clear in the european parliament's resolution. we want to continue to cooperate with the united kingdom. nothing moves us against your people. but we must do so within the framework of the integrity of the european institutions and their values and principles. with clear and transparent timetables. with guarantees of full respect for the rights of european citizens living in the united kingdom. ensuring the indivisibility and protecting the coherence and integrity of the european project. in short, we want the european project to remain strong and to learn from the experience of brexit so that the mistakes that led to it are not repeated.
madam president, on brexit, three brief notes on clarity, on people and on speed. we are late. article 50 has been triggered for more than six months and there is no real progress in the negotiations. this impasse is not to anyone's advantage. there is more time for media speeches than for concrete proposals. we have heard theresa may in florence, but we continue to ignore concrete proposals that are consequential. on the people: there are five million citizens with a mortgage on their future. europeans living in the uk and british people who chose another of the 27 countries. 400,000 portuguese people live in an unacceptable limbo. it is urgent that the united kingdom commits itself to safeguarding the rights of european citizens resident in the uk. breaking union law in a more or less disguised way and withdrawing rights would be intolerable. and about speed: that's why it's so important to decide and to decide now. to preserve the rights of all european citizens and to work for a smooth transition. this implies the application of the community acquis based on the four inseparable freedoms of movement. we need a good deal, and the clock is ticking.
madam president, first of all, congratulations on your new fight in your country. i hope you have good luck and wish you great happiness. madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that civil society plays a central role in building and strengthening democracy and promoting good governance and civil society organisations are important actors in development aid. they carry out relevant activities in the social and environmental field, safeguard the interests of disabled, vulnerable and marginalised people, social movements and indigenous peoples. the european union is the largest donor to local civil society organisations in developing countries and has been a leading actor in the protection of civil society actors and human rights defenders through the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the european democracy fund. i therefore believe, madam president, that this resolution is in fact a fundamental instrument in the defence of individual rights and the strengthening of democracy. thank you very much. that's why i voted yes.
mr president, commissioner, i was wondering if it is really true that we are having a debate on child marriage in the 21st century. something is indeed very wrong in this world. childhood should be a time of joy and tranquillity. it has been said here that child marriage destroys the lives of millions of girls and young women. it denies them the right to make decisions about their well-being and sexual health in due course. steal their right to education. it condemns them to a life without prospects. these girls and girls are exposed to violence, abuse, disease and early death. they get pregnant when they're girls. many die in childbirth. others are mothers when they should be learning or playing. they're wives when they should be children. they're marked by the rape of someone old enough to be their father. there is no single solution. there is a need for a collective effort. ending child marriage requires work at all levels. in this respect, the european union has an increased responsibility in its foreign policy. it implies action on our part to solve and kill this problem at its source. ending child marriage requires more clearly targeted investment, education, community intervention, tougher legislation and those who do not comply cannot receive european funding. the fight against child marriage has no ideology. it has one face, or rather, millions of faces.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to subscribe to and share the perplexity expressed by mrs liliana rodrigues, but the truth is that every year, every minute, 28 girls are forced to marry. that means 15 million a year, and if we do nothing, 150 million in the next decade. it is estimated that there are already 700 million women and 150 million men in the world who have been forced into marriage before they reach adulthood. numbers like these reinforce the sense of urgency in combating this reality, a fight which necessarily involves the union's external policy. countries such as nigeria, mozambique and india are examples where this reality still persists, but we need to act on our own territory too. it is urgent to ensure that we have the most appropriate means to eradicate this phenomenon from within our doors. it is even more intolerable that forced marriages exist within the european union. the european parliament recently approved the union's accession to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and urged the member states not to do so, as anna maria corazza bildt recalled. in short, mr president, we must make this fight a priority, to rescue these children from forced marriages and to ensure that many more are not shackled in the future. a priority for everyone, in the member states and the rest of the world.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations with egypt, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with egypt. the same is true of egypt's key role in the question of syria, libya or even palestine. but i would like to take up what my colleague said just now. it is that there can be no taboo between partners, particularly the issue of human rights in both directions: whether it is the violation of human rights in egypt or the violation of human rights in the european union. i would therefore like to stress very strongly that there can be no clauses in this agreement that are just on paper. it is our responsibility to ensure that everything in the agreement is respected, and the issue of human rights cannot be a minor issue. it must be on the level of trade issues, it must be on the level of economic interests, or rather it must be above them, because otherwise it will always be a poor victim. i would therefore ask the commissioner to bear in mind that in order to have partnership and to be friends, we must talk about human rights and, i repeat, in both directions.
mr president, i want to speak to you on four points. firstly, i would like to commend the ambition of the paris agreement and its reinforcement at the marrakesh summit and the speed with which it was ratified by most parties, and to express my hope that, after an initial phase of absurd statements by president trump, the united states will realise the importance of this agreement. secondly, it is important to continue investing in technologies that enable net-zero emissions through carbon capture strategies, which is an area with huge potential for sustainable job creation. we must therefore take the european ecological transition seriously and i would like to emphasize the role of the social economy in this challenge. thirdly, we must have a strategy for world agriculture which respects the use of water and soil resources, their re-use and the sustainable exploitation of forests, as we do at european level. there are no people more environmentally conscious than informed farmers. we must therefore promote good european agricultural practices to other places where they can be of added value. fourthly, and lastly, the poorest developing countries, or even island countries, are unfortunately the most affected by climate change, as we have recently seen with the devastation caused by hurricane maria in one of the most remote regions of europe, martinique and guadeloupe. i would like to express my solidarity with them, since i too come from an outermost region, the azores.
mr president, i welcome the resolution under discussion, which is a strong and consistent position of the european parliament. climate change is the most important challenge facing humanity, and it's no longer just about forecasts, it's something people are experiencing on a daily basis. in portugal, for example, the brutal wave of forest fires this summer is just one of many examples that we face on a daily basis as a result of climate change. they are destroying the planet, affecting populations, particularly the most economically vulnerable. and that is why we must act now and immediately, implement the paris agreement in all its policies. combating the retrograde vision of the us administration, harnessing the digital energy transition to create new opportunities for sustainable growth and quality jobs, tackling inequalities and improving living conditions on the planet. we must strengthen existing partnerships and seek new economic, political and research and development alliances. this resolution therefore constitutes a strong political mandate for the european parliament delegation to cop23 and it is also a political mandate for the commission and the member states.
mr president, commissioner, climate change is one of the greatest environmental, social and economic threats facing the planet and humanity. every day, we see examples of severe and unprecedented weather phenomena that show everyone this truth. from hurricanes irma and maria, which devastated everything in their path, to the forest fires that in my country recently took the lives of 64 people. the implementation of the paris agreement and in particular issues of transparency, adaptation, emission reduction, financing, capacity building and technology will be discussed and negotiated at cop23 and will allow these issues to be adopted at the next cop to be held in 2018 in poland. the signing of the paris agreement was a historic moment around a consensus in the fight against climate change. this is an unprecedented multilateral agreement. mr. trump has invoked, in order to abandon the paris agreement, that it is unfair to american workers and perverse to the competitiveness of the united states. but if this announcement can make the fight against climate change more difficult, i am certain that there is no turning back in this fight and that the global transition to clean energy is here to stay. the success of cop23 implies strong political will and robust climate diplomacy. the european union must continue to lead through its ambitious climate policies and support for those who are particularly vulnerable in order to build strong and sustainable economies. the world is in a race against time and the european union and its member states must remain united and fully committed to the full and rapid implementation of the paris agreement. hence the importance that i understand cop23 will bring to our planet.
mr president, it is not just passenger rights that are at stake, just as this case cannot be dissociated from the policy options that the eu has imposed on the sector. options such as the systematic promotion of privatisations is the destruction of the model of flag and scale-assistance airlines, concentrations in the sector with the apology and permissiveness to low cost approaches and the increasing precariousness and deregulation of labour relations, lowering personnel costs, further compromising an element of national sovereignty. that's the root of the problem. the workers have reached the limit of the deplorable conditions ryanair imposes on them. we also wish to extend a fraternal greeting to all those in the air transport sector who are fighting for the improvement and dignity of working conditions. it is urgent to reverse the options imposed and to affirm the need to regain public control of this strategic sector, which is essential for the development of any country. this is the only way to ensure the best labour and operating practices in the sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the thousands of cancellations by ryanair have caused a great deal of damage to european consumer confidence. many consumers have reported a persistent concealment of information on their rights and many complaints to the air carrier, national authorities, consumer associations and the commission refer to the lack of response, the non-application of the rules of article 5 of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 and misleading information to avoid compensation or the use of loopholes in the regulation regarding sequential flights. it is regrettable that only three national authorities have threatened sanctions. the others are merely monitoring the situation. the support has been provided mainly by consumer organisations and the european commission has not been clearly involved in this process. effective consumer protection is a fundamental element of the proper functioning of the market. the mismanagement of a company cannot be used as a pretext to evade the duty to compensate the passengers affected. from the reports we have received, we have seen cases of misleading commercial practices by omission of the information necessary for the consumers concerned to assert their rights. the national consumer protection authorities must act. the commission must not be left to the task of dealing with an objectively transnational case affecting thousands of europeans. and reality is right when we propose to strengthen cooperation between national consumer protection authorities, which we will vote on here in strasbourg as early as next month.
mr president, commissioner, as the council representative has said, air transport is one of the main means of communication and one of the main engines of development in any modern nation. ryanair - one of the main airlines operating in europe - canceled thousands of flights between september and october this year, causing thousands of euros of damage to its customers. ladies and gentlemen, as the commissioner has rightly said, any operator operating in the european union must comply with european legislation. the rights of passengers must be scrupulously defended and protected and those who fail to do so must be punished with appropriate and, in my view, very severe sanctions. the liberalisation of airspace cannot be understood as permissiveness or the application of western law. the commission must be firm and not allow this kind of behaviour by ryanair, which violates the rights of air passengers, to be repeated to the detriment of the citizens and the economies of the member states. commissioner, those who do not comply should not be allowed to operate in the union's space. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162, paragraph 8)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, i do not quite understand your question, but what i am trying to say is that passengers have the right to be compensated for the losses they suffer, whether it is 15, 20, 30, whatever, and there are in fact provisions in the law that say the amount for hours of delay and cancellations. so it's nothing that's new. rules have to be enforced, and they are there. european legislation exists, it is there. it must be implemented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner andriukaitis, today's debate is a crucial moment for the maritime sector, as we are celebrating the european maritime year this year. this proposal concerns the need to maintain high safety standards for passenger ships in the union and results from the commission's assessment of the quality of existing legislation on passenger ship safety, including consultations with member states and stakeholders. the commission has already taken account of the fact that the legal provisions are ambiguous and have been interpreted differently by the national authorities. this proposal therefore proposes amendments to resolve these differences. the safety of passengers and crew must be the top priority and concern of all of us, and in particular of the commission and the member states. commissioner, passengers and crews must feel safe and confident when travelling on board passenger ships in the european union. i would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteurs, and especially mrs aiuto, on this report, which i believe will help to implement, monitor and enforce the rules in the member states and thus contribute to maintaining a high level of overall safety and to reforming the social and labour dimension of seafarers on board ships.
mr president, the time to wait is over. this is the time to deliver. mr verhofstadt is no longer here, but i would like to pick up the issue he raised. we do have a road map for the european union, and we could force this road map through cooperation between the three institutions. recently, three speeches of three leaders – juncker, macron and antonio costa – have showed important overlaps from different political sensitivities. this means something, but let me be clear about the real meaning of delivery. if we want to deliver on the migration crisis once and for all, we need to prepare a much stronger partnership for african development, and we need to create a real european asylum agency. if you want to deliver better social equality in europe in this digital age, we need to have a strong pillar to ensure that everybody in employment can count on a decent labour contract and access to social protection. if you want to close these divergences which we still have in europe, you need to have a community budget and a eurozone budget working for convergence. and finally, if you come with the argument that we don’t have the money for this, i’m sorry. the money is there if you add taxation properly on big corporations which are operating in the single market and benefiting from it, particularly in the digital economy. so we have the solutions; we need to start delivering, and the next european council should be a step for this.
mr president, i was going to speak on another subject, but the way the spanish/catalan question has been dealt with here obliges me - out of a sense of duty - to say the following: it is shameful to draw any comparison between democratic spain and any form of dictatorship. spain has made an exemplary path, an exemplary democratic transition. it has gone from francoism to a democratic regime, a regime which, moreover, enshrines autonomy practically without parallel in the european framework. i'm not spanish. i am portuguese, but i feel obliged at this moment, in the name of defending european values, to make this clear statement: spain is a great democratic country and must and must be treated as such in this parliament. the catalan question naturally exists and i hope that, with consensus and dialogue, it can be resolved and we are all paying attention to what is happening. now that does not authorize anyone to question the great democracy that is spanish democracy.
mr president, both president juncker and president macron were right to point out for the need for the eu to harmonise taxation and adopt qualified-majority voting in taxation decisions. this should be a priority at the european summit, otherwise, the eu will continue to be bogged down by an ungovernable european monetary union, shrinking national and european fiscal resources, a fictional single market with competition distorted by tax dumping, and the tax jungle prone to be made worse by brexit. the reality, however, is already alarming. we will not work for common security and defence by letting corruption and organised crime, including human trafficking and terrorism, continue, and by allowing the proceeds through our taxation and financial systems, taking advantage of the digital era. the commission set alarm bells ringing with the report on vat carousel fraud, showing it provides eur 5 billion per year to organised crime, including terrorism. how can eu governments and the eu council be effective with action on vat and the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) if they go on enabling terrorists and mafia to get funds through our own tax system on a massive scale?
in writing. on 30 september the sugar quotas and the last agricultural quota system still in force in the european union came to an end. the decision to end sugar quotas now follows the 2013 reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) which started in 2006 and includes, among other wrongdoings, the end of milk quotas and vine planting rights. the end of sugar quotas has political significance, marking the end of a shift towards complete liberalization of supply, which is now governed solely by market law. but as reality shows, the market that the european union is promoting is nothing more than a mechanism designed to concentrate production in the richest countries by creating bonds of pure dependence and vassalage towards the poorest countries. with the agricultural crisis in the background, it is now imperative to stop this neoliberal drift at the level of the cap, either by replacing the instruments for regulating supply or at the level of the various free trade agreements which are putting unbearable pressure on our farmers.
madam president, in the previous vote i voted in favour, but the light changed by itself. i did not touch the button, so something must have happened. that is why. (laughter)
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because its primary objective is to ensure the safe operation of ro-ro vessels, passenger ships and high-speed passenger craft. with over 400 million passengers passing through european ports every year, maritime transport has been one of the key pillars of economic growth and prosperity in europe. the commission proposal is part of the refit programme for regulatory adequacy and effectiveness and aims to simplify the legal framework, ensure common, clear, simplified and strengthened rules for ferries and high-speed passenger craft from and to the european union, reduce the administrative burden on shipowners and streamline the efforts of member states' maritime administrations. ladies and gentlemen, we have just adopted a solid and coherent legal framework for passenger shipping. i believe that these measures ensure and enhance the common level of safety and a level playing field for all operators.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution in recognition of the fact that child marriage is a violation of the rights of children and a form of violence against women and girls and must be condemned in writing. child, early or forced marriage constitutes a violation of the rights of the child and constitutes a basic denial of the right of children to autonomy over their own bodies and to respect for their physical integrity. recent data from save the children indicates that every seven seconds, a 15-year-old girl is forced into marriage, and the latest world bank report says that every year 15 million girls worldwide are married before they turn 18, meaning that basic human rights are denied to 37,000 girls every day. child, early and forced marriage, ladies and gentlemen, must be one of the priorities for the european union's external action in the field of the promotion of women's rights and human rights, in the context of respect for the fundamental principles and core values of the european union, in particular gender equality and the protection of the rights of the child.
in writing. the referendum of 1 october was one-sided, not allowing a significant part of the population of catalonia to vote: but it only happened because there was no negotiation on an autonomous status within a constitutional framework in which the catalan national entity could assert itself. i am a europeanist and a federalist, and i am against the fragmentation of states and nationalisms in the eu. but no one has done more for the cause of catalan independence than mr rajoy's government, and no one is doing more than the government of mr rajoy, in addition to the refusal to negotiate the repression of peaceful citizens who wanted to vote, which the whole world watched in horror on 1 january. the tragedy of the franco regime which led to the spanish civil war is in our collective memory. as a portuguese woman, i cannot let us slip into more violent confrontation. the eu cannot stand by on the sidelines, shrouded in the sterile argument of legality: this is not just a spanish problem, it is an eu problem: we will all be affected if spain breaks up or explodes into more violence. the eu must urgently step in and facilitate dialogue and negotiation, against unilateral measures that will only escalate the violence.
the events of 1 october in catalonia are intolerable in substance and gravity. in the face of the facts, neither party can claim reason on its side. the autonomous government and the central authorities were complicit in failing to prevent the escalation of political and physical violence. it is urgent that they resume the dialogue in order to find a political solution which, while respecting the democratic rule of law, allows the catalans to express their will in relation to the model of autonomy and relationship with the spanish state. in this context, the european institutions should call for political dialogue in spain as an eu member state and strengthen their vigilance to use the legal instruments at their disposal, if necessary, to ensure the rule of law and fundamental rights in that country.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the stability, coordination and governance of economic and monetary union was signed in 2012 in response to the 2008 financial crisis. but instead of learning lessons from the financial crisis, it has accentuated the most negative aspects of the stability and growth pact, thus wanting to kill the patient with the disease. as expected, the budget treaty only prolonged the divergence trajectory that had begun with the euro and the stability and growth pact, imposing austerity and the neoliberal agenda of the european union on the member states against the will of their peoples. as the situation in portugal shows, austerity is not inevitable, and by reversing the troika's measures, despite the european commission's blackmail and threats of sanctions and cuts in structural funds, wages and pensions have risen, taxes on labour have fallen and privatisations have been reversed, growth has returned and the deficit has even fallen. instead of incorporating the budgetary pact into the legal framework of the european union, it would be better to end the european economic union or at least allow the orderly withdrawal of those member states which so wish.
mr president, the single budgetary policy of the european union, with rules such as deficit limitation, restricts the ability of member states to respond to the economic cycle through their own budgetary policy. the budgetary treaty shows that the european union has learned nothing from history and what it does is to reinforce two perverse aspects of the rules that already exist, the ultra-liberal approach to budgetary rules, i.e. austerity as a rule, aggravating the problems of countries in responding to prolonged stagnation and high unemployment and by introducing the criterion of the structural balance, the arbitrariness that already existed in the imposition of the rules, treating countries unequally, which is now becoming a rule in itself. the integration of the budgetary treaty into community law will be tragic. the role of the socialists is decisive and i hope it will not be as tragic as it has been in previous moments. i call on all groups calling for the social state, protection of labour and a social europe to reject this conversion. i don't know if we'll make it in time to save the union. but not taking this step will be key to that.
mr president, the integration of the fiscal compact into the legal framework of the european union should be envisaged only if the lessons of recent years are properly taken into account. the first lesson is that this treaty is also about coordination and governance. when it comes to coordination, the objectives are not only stability but also growth and convergence. we have learned in recent years that this convergence should be guided by economic and social targets together and the european semester should be designed with this purpose. when it comes to reforms, the assumption is that the reforms which should be recommended to member states should take into account their real priorities and not invented priorities. but we also need to deal with the governance part of the treaty and the governance must be democratic, which is not yet the case. this means that, if a eurozone summit is now being convened, let me remind you that the treaty provides for parliament’s president to be invited. most of all, we need to make sure that, all through the process, parliament will play a central role: when we discuss the reforms of the economic and monetary union (emu), when we discuss the fiscal stance and when we discuss the recommendations for the euro area. we also need to recognise that there is a role for the national parliaments – yes, there is – when they are involved in discussing the national reform programmes and the country—specific recommendations. but overall we need an interinstitutional agreement to set the rules for real democratic governance of the emu. finally, on fiscal discipline, let me be clear: of course we need common fiscal discipline in the eurozone to make it sustainable, but it is also clear that, in order to have this common fiscal discipline, if we do not want to hinder growth and growth potential, we need to complement national fiscal discipline – which should be intelligent – with a proper fiscal capacity, as all other monetary zones in the world have. no monetary zone in the world has existed and been sustainable without a fiscal capacity. so these are our lessons to be integrated into the new framework.
madam president, the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a step forward in the process of european integration, in the com munisation and harmonisation of justice, particularly in the criminal field, with a view to a justice that serves the interests of the great powers and big business. the attack on the sovereignty of the states continues, reinforcing the federalist stance of the integration project, in this case the judiciary, through supranational bodies in which more and more competences and powers are concentrated, obliterating the necessary and desirable free and sovereign cooperation between national states. the creation of some of these european bodies and the strengthening of others are intended to protect and supersede the legitimate institutions of the member states, to restrict their ability to intervene on their own behalf in defence of their interests and to limit their judicial sovereignty. these proposals centralize, structure and strengthen bodies which escape democratic and judicial control, going beyond the guarantees of rights and freedoms provided for in national legislative and constitutional frameworks.
madam president, i too want to join the voices of my colleagues here who are calling for reform of interpol and for reform of red notices. there have been a number of cases where, for example, turkey has used this institute to harass and punish dissidents who leave turkish territory. and it's not just examples in spain, i'm from the czech republic, and we had a specific case like this in the czech republic. it may be known to the commission, it was the case of nazmi sahin, a turkish citizen of kurdish nationality, who was sentenced to six years in turkey for the offence of belonging to an organisation with political interests incompatible with the turkish state establishment. that means it was clearly a political crime. so there was a red notice, he left his homeland, there was a red notice from interpol, and the czech justice system dealt with this. the czech justice, of course, did not extradite this person, but the whole process took more than a year and the sahin in question was simply detained, he was restricted in his rights, he was in principle indirectly harassed, and the czech justice acted entirely in accordance with the law. i think that the reform must be carried out by interpol itself, the reform of red notices must be carried out, because the individual judicial authorities then decide how to proceed entirely according to the substantive law in the member state concerned. and even if the subject is not extradited, i think months of harassment is completely unnecessary. besides, what one of my speakers said is true, even if this person was not extradited by the czech republic, this red notice still applies and he can be detained in any other state and again the person concerned can get into trouble. that means he's basically permanently bullied. so i'm also calling for red notice reform.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has adopted by a large majority resolution 2161, entitled 'abusive recourse to the interpol system: the need for more stringent legal safeguards'. interpol is an effective instrument of international cooperation in the fight against transnational crime, including terrorism, and is based on mutual assistance between national law enforcement authorities and should operate in complete neutrality and with respect for the human rights of suspects. the process of globalisation has opened up various channels of transnational criminal activity. the threats today are complex, numerous and destabilising, and international police and judicial cooperation is the answer to the internationalisation of crime. the international alert allows the police of the member states to share critical information concerning crimes that have occurred, in particular the red alert. available data tells us that over the past decade, the number of red alerts issued has increased dramatically. commissioner, i think that all this is possible as long as human rights and the rule of law are respected.
mr president, commissioner, although the european union has made great progress in road safety in recent decades, the high number of fatalities and serious injuries continues to cause great human suffering and unacceptable economic costs, estimated at eur 100 billion a year. in 2016, 25 000 people lost their lives on european union roads and another 135 000 were seriously injured. european commission data on road safety show a 2% decrease in the number of fatalities in 2016. however, while these figures are encouraging, they may not be enough for the european union to achieve its target of halving road deaths between 2010 and 2020. to stop these silent killers, the valletta declaration was signed in malta, which represents a common commitment by the member states of the european union to promote road safety and reduce accidents. one of the main objectives is to reduce by 50% the number of road fatalities by 2020, taking 2010 as a benchmark, and to reduce by 50% the number of serious injuries by 2030 compared to 2020. the 'europe on the move' package aims in particular to make traffic safer, recognising that action by all stakeholders is needed to reduce injuries and fatalities. the truth is, commissioner, that since the adoption of this package on 31 may, little progress has been made in road safety and other issues closely linked to road safety remain unanswered, issues linked - as the commissioner has mentioned here - to the fight against terrorism and the lack of coordination between the police in the fight against crime.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for their report. although detention conditions are primarily the responsibility of member states, who have agreed to respect the existing council of europe standards on the matter, the commission attaches great importance to respect for the fundamental rights of persons in detention in the european union. improving prison conditions has become a priority at eu level because, among other reasons, they affect the efficient operation of eu mutual recognition instruments such as the european arrest warrant and because of the danger of radicalisation in prisons. the commission therefore fully supports this own—initiative report from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). increasing prisons’ capacity is not the sole solution to overcrowding as the prison population tends to rise at the same rate as prison capacity. the focus should therefore rather be on the improvement of existing penitentiary structures, many of which in different member states are obsolete and do not function properly in terms of rehabilitation services. to facilitate that we have undertaken a mapping exercise to see how different eu funds could be employed to improve the situation in prisons in the eu. i have raised this several times with justice ministers, who are not always fully aware of the possibilities the european funds on regional and cohesion policy offer in that regard. but i would also like to mention the importance of alternatives to detention. member states have committed themselves under the eu framework decisions i just mentioned to accept alternative sentences, both in the pre—trial and the post-trial stage. even if the framework decisions oblige the member states to adopt a certain number of alternatives, for these alternatives to be used you need a certain practice and a developed probation structure. that is what is lacking in many member states. this is an area where a lot could be done at eu level. some member states are already well advanced in this area and others could learn from them. we could help to exchange best practices among member states. the last point i would like to touch upon is radicalisation. some of the individuals involved in terrorist attacks in europe were allegedly radicalised while serving prison sentences for other crimes. we need to find ways to prevent such violent radicalisation in our prisons and to help radicalised individuals to find other paths when they leave prison. following our ministerial conference on the matter in 2015 and the linked council conclusions, our priority is to use all available means, including financial, to support member states to speed up the setting up of projects such as the development of deradicalisation and rehabilitation programmes in and outside prisons, risk assessment tools and training schemes for prison staff, judges and prosecutors in the member states. to this effect we made eur 6.5 million available in 2015 and 2016 under the justice programme and continue to do so in 2017 and 2018. judicial training will remain an important factor. prison staff and probation officers are covered by the judicial training course. i would also like to remind you of the commission’s high—level expert group on radicalisation that will allow for further discussion with member states on the possible options for further and future more structured cooperation mechanisms in this area. one of the priority topics to be discussed is indeed radicalisation in prisons. i am planning to come back to this issue of radicalisation in prisons at a high-level meeting before the end of the year. the commission also pays particular attention to the children of parents in prison, of whom it is estimated that there are about 800 000 in the eu. therefore, this year’s european forum on the rights of the child, which will take place from 6 to 8 november 2017, will have a focus on the deprivation of liberty of children and alternatives to detention. furthermore, the situation of the children of parents in prison will also be addressed as one of the main topics. thank you again for your report as it supports our efforts in tackling the various aspects of detention in the eu.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, joëlle bergeron, on her excellent work. thank you very much. in 2014, there were more than half a million prisoners in prisons in the european union, including those sentenced to a definitive sentence and those who have been charged with a crime and are in preventive detention, which, according to eurostat data, is more than 20% of the total prison population. while the conditions of detention and the management of prisons are the responsibility of the member states, the union also has a necessary role to play in safeguarding the fundamental rights of prisoners and in creating the european area of freedom, security and justice. there are considerable differences between the judicial and prison systems used in the countries of the union, in particular as regards the adoption of alternative measures, detention and sentences substituting for short-term sentences. in 1999 this house adopted an important resolution on prison conditions in the union, adaptations and substitution sentences. we are discussing this again after almost 20 years, and many of the assumptions and situations identified at that time are the same as those we are discussing here today. i believe that there is a need for convergence of the forms of the exercise of justice in the member states, despite the difficulties this implies. today, as the commissioner said, we are witnessing serious problems in the prison system, with prison overcrowding, the use of illicit substances, an alarming rate of suicides and radicalisation in many of the union's prisons. these are very worrying phenomena which require particular attention. for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the institutions of the union should support, as far as possible, the technical and economic improvement of prison systems and conditions, especially in those member states which are facing serious financial difficulties. the situation in prisons in europe is worrying and the european parliament has an important role to play in reversing this situation.
prisons are designed to educate offenders so that they can return to social life free of criminal tendencies. unfortunately, in many countries of the european union, prisons have become real schools of crime. many inmates who have been convicted of occasional offenses leave prison transformed into professional criminals. on the other hand, criminals are sentenced by the courts to a penalty which deprives them of their freedom but does not deprive them of their dignity as human beings. it has been shown that the member states alone do not have the capacity to change this state of affairs. only the creation, commissioner, of a european prison model can bring about a positive change in this situation. this european penitentiary model, the only one in europe, is also a requirement of european integration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, more than a year ago we adopted a resolution here on the violations of the human rights of people with albinism in africa, particularly in malawi. since then we have seen an alarming resurgence of murders and attacks against albinos in east africa, in malawi, tanzania, south africa and mozambique. albinos, including many children, continue to pay a terrible price for their condition. in addition to being rejected by their own families, they are victims of gangs of criminals and traffickers, often protected by the police, who live off the harvesting of their body parts to feed the macabre and very lucrative business of magic potions associated with the belief that they possess magical powers. this house cannot but strongly condemn the violence and discrimination against people with albinism and urge the authorities in these countries to put an end to the impunity of those responsible and to support all campaigns which, by raising awareness of the causes of this congenital disorder, make it possible to combat discrimination, prejudice and superstition. we cannot tolerate the continuation of this genuine genetic apartheid.
mr president, commissioner, in the last weeks of september ilmi umerov, a prominent critic of the russian occupation and leader of the crimean tatar people, the ukrainian journalist mycola semena and the leader of the mejlis, akhtem chiygoz, were sentenced to prison terms on charges of threatening the territorial integrity of the russian federation. the sentencing of these three prominent critics of the russian annexation of crimea is the latest episode of the usurpation of fundamental rights and freedoms on the ukrainian peninsula and the instrumentalization of the judicial system as a political tool of repression of those who oppose the russian occupation and annexation. this is not the first time that we have condemned in this house russia's systematic use of persecution, torture, arbitrary arrests and extrajudicial executions to silence dissenting voices and to reduce the crimean tatar population to submission. these latest arrests also represent another serious violation of the rights to freedom of expression, security and a fair trial guaranteed by the european convention on human rights, to which the russian federation is a signatory, and we therefore call for the withdrawal of the charges and the immediate release of akhtem chiygoz, ilmi umerov and mycola semena.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we prefer to keep the order as it is because the ulvskog report is also very important. of course we know that this debate is crucial for us but we do not agree to change the order.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are delighted and, of course, we also support this request made directly to the president in the chamber.
in the face of these tragedies, in the face of these disasters, it is important not only to discuss the support that must be mobilized immediately to provide for the victims and their families, but also to discuss an appropriate framework for the prevention of such disasters at european level. this is a matter which therefore does not concern only the two states most directly affected by the fires last week. it's a question that concerns us all. given the importance of the subject - which you have rightly underlined - we wanted to give this debate a certain visibility and a certain projection, which is not guaranteed by putting it at 10 or 11 p.m. on wednesday, and hence our proposal to change it to the first item on the agenda for the afternoon, that is to say, at 3 p.m.
mr president, commissioner, any intervention in the field of the marketing of fertilising products must not lose sight of the fact that the dominant european agriculture is moving away from fundamental aspects of a sustainable production model, which will not be alien to the policies and guidelines prevailing in the european union, such as the cap, which need a profound modification. the rapporteur believes that member states should be free to allow non-harmonised fertilisers on the internal market, without depriving economic operators of the opportunity to benefit from a harmonised regulatory framework. if, on the one hand, we think it wise to restrict the effects of harmonization by making it optional, on the other hand, the criteria which have guided the elaboration of the harmonized regulatory framework seem to us more questionable. these criteria would be expected to ensure high standards of quality, safety and protection of both the environment and public health, to stimulate or at least not to compromise product and process innovation, to be in line with the best available technical and scientific knowledge and not to benefit certain types of economically powerful interests and operators to the detriment of others. there are legitimate doubts that this is so.
in 2016, the commission adopted a proposal laying down rules on the making available on the market of ce marked fertilising products, covering a wider range of such products and opening the single market to the free movement of fertilising products produced from organic or secondary raw materials. while it is true that fertilisers provide significant benefits in terms of crop yield, it is equally true that we cannot ignore the significant environmental, public health and food safety challenges associated with the use of fertilisers. the main objective of the report is to encourage the large-scale production of fertilisers in the union from organic or national secondary raw materials in accordance with the circular economy model by converting waste into nutrients for crops. however, the current regulation does not address environmental issues associated with contamination of soil, inland water and marine waters and, ultimately, foodstuffs. and cadmium is a sad example of that. ladies and gentlemen, i therefore believe that the maximum levels of cadmium should be as low as possible in order to ensure a high level of protection for human health. and this is what i have to say at this moment.
the exchange of information between member states, the existence and operation of a rapid alert system and the risk assessment procedures for new psychoactive substances are of great importance. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction will currently monitor more than 450 substances. in recent years, there has been an unprecedented increase in the number, type and availability of psychoactive substances, which coincides with the persistence of a deep and protracted social crisis, with very significant levels of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, with the continued attack on social and labour rights, with the weakening of public services. to address this complex reality, a comprehensive approach is recommended, integrating the strands of prevention, deterrence, risk reduction and harm minimisation, through to treatment and social reintegration. there is a need to develop a better understanding of a rapidly changing reality, both in terms of substances and consumption patterns and their prevalence in different population groups. it is necessary to identify constraints in access to the healthcare delivery system and to expand, diversify and adequately staff the public network of services in the area of drug dependence, with a focus on a local response. this path requires confronting and reversing the effects of the policies of cutting public spending that the european union has been imposing on the member states.
mr president, to speak of minimum income policies is to speak of the real causes which justify them; the commission's proposal is to discuss the reasons why 125 million people in the european union, which produces 20% of world gdp, are living in poverty today; it is to discuss the reasons why economic and social inequalities, levels of labour exploitation or precariousness are increasing. the answer is clear: it is in the capitalist matrix of the european union and the policies it has promoted that the causes justifying the need for these instruments lie - transitional instruments which are necessary but which do not address the underlying causes. these are fought with real ruptures, with the constraints that eu policies impose on states and prevent policies of effective redistribution of wealth, the promotion of decent work with rights, the advances of collective agreements, real wage increases, the fight against inequalities or the guarantee of free and quality public services, health, social security and education finally, progressive development policies that respond to the needs of workers and peoples.
mr president, the introduction and strengthening of minimum income policies, if properly combined with other measures and policies relating to the social and labour market, can be a way of combating poverty and promoting social inclusion and access to the labour market. i also believe that minimum income schemes can also act as automatic macroeconomic stabilisers in response to economic shocks. in 2015, 23,7% of the population and 12,5% of workers aged over 18 in the european union were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. ladies and gentlemen, europe is one of the most prosperous regions in the world, but these figures show a harsh reality that must be tackled. the european social observatory has been reporting that 26 member states already have income support schemes, but there are still many differences between member states in the treatment of minimum income policies. i therefore agree with this report, which calls in particular on all member states to introduce adequate minimum income schemes as a last line of social protection, as a way of fighting poverty and ensuring a decent existence for all those who lack sufficient resources, and proposes that the commission consider the creation of an appropriate european fund, on a temporary basis, to act as an instrument of european cohesion and society policy.
mr president, according to reports, the european commission announced last week that it would suspend the third pillar of the banking union. surprisingly, there was no consensus at council level on a proposal which was itself a step back from the much-propagated creation of a common deposit guarantee system. it was clear long ago that the deposit guarantee scheme was the carrot with which the stick of usurpation of national sovereignty, of centralisation and banking concentration came. this is a development that is not surprising. even if the third pillar had advanced, this would not change the nature of the banking union project. but to those who naively looked at the carrot and those who deliberately waved it, to those who backed the attack on national sovereignty in the supervision and intervention of their banking systems, to those who thus defended monopolistic concentration on a european scale, saying that the consolation prize would be what has now fallen to the ground, the question is: are they prepared to change their position?
mr president, the venezuelan regional elections of 15 october, the result of which nicolas maduro proclaimed as a landslide victory, were another sad episode in the long process of erosion of democracy in that country. first, we have witnessed an election campaign in which the bureaucracy shamelessly exploited the public media to favour its candidates. then, after the vote, there were numerous irregularities reported, including last-minute changes and no public notification of voting assemblies or forced votes in exchange for food. the regime now requires elected rulers to take an oath before the fraudulent national constituent assembly. an electoral act that should have been carried out last year was transformed by the psuv into a plebiscite on its ruinous governance, which will condition the 2018 presidential elections. this new farce and the worrying impact of the humanitarian crisis must make us increase the pressure on the maduro regime and, therefore, i repeat that, in the face of the gravity of this political and humanitarian crisis, it is urgent that the union take individual and selective measures against those responsible, including for possible crimes against humanity, in the words of the un high commissioner for human rights.
mr president, the european union needs this ambitious road map to meet the future challenges. that is for sure. we can see a promising alignment of the european institutions – parliament, council and commission – but let me be clear: we need to deliver on the road map with concrete measures. this means that if we want to have a real social pillar we need to translate these into measures, making sure that all people in employment, whatever their job, can count on a decent labour contract and full access to social protection. if we want to have a real reform of the eurozone in order to promote growth and convergence, we need to provide the eurozone with the fiscal capacity to help and support member states in this direction. if we want to have a real european asylum system, the council should adopt the recent reform of the dublin system just adopted by the european parliament. if we want europe to promote a better world order, then yes, we need to use trade agreements, but we need to push the sustainable development goals together with these agreements. these are very concrete measures to deliver on the road map with credibility, but the main test will be the next european budget, because all this ambition needs to be matched by a real overhaul of the community budget in a way that enables us to meet these new priorities. finally, like many other groups, the s&d group is underlining here that we see the system of spitzenkandidaten, the choice of the present european commission by electing him or her in the european parliament, as a major democratic development, which must be completely respected. this is our wish and our warning.
madam president, i have three messages: one for all colleagues, one for president tusk and the other for the commission. i will be very sharp, very loud and very clear. to all colleagues, i am shocked and ashamed when i hear that there are in this house members of this parliament who think that there is no respect for fundamental freedoms in catalonia. only a person who does not know spain, who does not know catalonia, can think there is no strict respect for rule of law and fundamental rights. i would like to live in a global world where human rights are as well respected as they in are catalonia, even today. the second message is to president tusk. i am very worried about this idea of an extraordinary council on the composition of the european parliament. this is a competence and a power of our parliament that then has to be approved by the council, it is true, but we have made huge progress. i, as a professor of constitutional law who teaches his students about the english revolution, say that we will not give up, we will not resign, and we will define our own composition because we feel we are the sovereign representatives of the european people. the council should be aware of this in any case. finally, the third message. i would like to say to the commission that i put all my hope in establishing a european civil protection force. that should be a body like the coast guard that could be a cornerstone of our future defence framework.
mr president, the cynicism of the round words does not hide the true meaning of the so-called pragmatic approach to the situation of migrants who continue to try to reach europe. the expulsion of refugees, which breaches international law and reveals the depth of the european union's commitment to human rights, the complacency or even complicity in the brutal attacks that many of them are subjected to at the european union's borders and the blackmailing of african countries or do the dirty work of stopping those fleeing poverty and war or the european union will close the taps of your funds. as far as economic and monetary union is concerned, the strategy is still to wave the carrot and hide the stick. the carrot that never comes is the third pillar of banking union, which has now, unsurprisingly, fallen to the ground, or a miraculous european monetary fund. the stick, that is certain, an even greater concentration of power, usurpation of sovereignty, economic dependence and political subordination. a final word on the fires that jean-claude juncker mentioned in portugal. solidarity is necessary, yes, but solidarity requires additionality and not a mere reprogramming of the structural funds.
in writing. european leaders are deceiving themselves and their citizens if they think they are managing the migration flow by pushing responsibility for the failed state in libya and throwing money at oppressive african regimes, migrant and refugee makers: one of the eu's most supported and funded dictatorships is on the verge of disintegrating ethiopia, with dire consequences for africa and europe, and no one in the eu even notices... european leaders are wrong, and they are wrong, if they claim to provide security and protect citizens, but at the same time maintain deregulatory neoliberal policies that allow criminal mafias, including terrorists, to take advantage of the eu's tax jungle, the gaps in the vat system, offshore and onshore tax havens, to make money, launder money and capture governments and institutions. the cowardly murder of journalist daphne caruana galizia shows that evil is within. and it's not confined to malta!
the european council, meeting on 19 and 20 october, addressed key issues for the future of the european union, such as the adequacy of migration policy in the light of experience of its implementation, progress in the process of completing economic and monetary union, the negotiating position on brexit and the assessment of the level of achievement of the digital union. it has also taken bold and ambitious positions, which i would stress, of solidarity and support for spain and portugal in the context of the forest fires in those countries. i would particularly stress the council's commitment to delivering the european monetary fund and the banking union by june 2018 and the european commission's commitment to supporting the legislative processes that will make it possible to deliver the digital union and the digital single market, as well as to give practical substance to the social pillar of the european union. i would also stress the decision to maintain a united position and to defend the interests of eu citizens in the negotiating process associated with the united kingdom's withdrawal request.
mr president, i voted in favour because this is a fundamental initiative to improve the safety standards for fertilising products and to reduce the limits for heavy metals, especially cadmium, which are a real and proven risk to human and animal health. fertilizers provide significant benefits in terms of crop yield, but we cannot forget that there are important environmental, public health and food safety challenges associated with their use. the current regulation does not address environmental issues associated with the contamination of soil, inland water and marine waters and, ultimately, the food chain. the proposal introduces harmonised cadmium limits for phosphate fertilisers with a view to minimising the negative impact of fertiliser use on the environment and human health. i am convinced that the adoption of this proposal will make it possible to provide a better level of protection for human and animal health, food safety and the protection of soil and water.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution in recognition of the need to fight relentlessly against new psychoactive substances, which represent a serious cross-border health threat. its use compromises health and causes the death of millions of people each year, affecting their mental and cognitive processes, according to the world health organization. substance use among young people is a major global public health problem, aggravated by the fact that there is an increasing number of new psychoactive substances available, which are being introduced into the drug market in the european union. it is estimated that more than 450 substances are being monitored by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the rapid increase in new psychoactive substances poses new challenges to societies and it is urgent to strengthen the surveillance and early warning system in the union by simplifying procedures to ensure greater effectiveness and speed in combating this threat. the increasingly important role of the internet in the supply and marketing of these drugs and of social networks, increasingly active in the buying and selling of drugs, pose new challenges which imply new and agile responses, as this resolution expresses.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the presentation by the first vice-president of the commission on the commission work programme is welcome, because we need an ambitious road map for the european union. but we also need to have it really delivered, and delivered with credible solutions. we all know that this is the last shot for this european commission, and let me be precise on what our demands are: to have real, fair and credible solutions. yes, we do need a european social pillar, but let me be precise: the pillar needs to be translated in outstanding measures, notably making sure that everybody in employment – in whatever kind of job – can count on a decent labour contract and on full access to social protection. when it comes to the reform of the eurozone, we need a eurozone not only with stability, but with roles and conversions – this means having a european semester working in this direction, a fiscal capacity supporting investment and supporting upward conversions, and a minister of economy and finance who should be accountable to this european parliament. on migration, the long—term crisis in front of us and behind us can only be responded to via the proper reform of the european asylum system, legal corridors for legal migration, and a much stronger partnership with africa. we also know that when it comes to the role of europe in supporting the multilateral system and an open world order, a lot depends on the kind of trade agreements we are able to do. the kind of trade agreements that we are pushing for are those which should be inspired by sustainable development goals, and all these must be translated into to the european budget. this will be our last chance to redirect the european union. this is our expectation.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, we all have an obligation to protect human life. i know that civil protection is the responsibility of each member state, but the european union must also help. and i hope that in 2018 there will be the establishment of a rapid intervention force in the area of civil protection. prevention is also urgent and the structural funds available in each member state are important for this very prevention. solidarity, a solidarity fund to deal with the damage, is urgently needed to work quickly, because this solidarity must be felt. in 2018, too, mr vice-president, there will be the proposal for the presentation of the new multiannual financial framework. it is a multiannual financial framework which must be fit for purpose and that means that it must have financial means in line with the objectives it sets itself. we need these funds and we also need something else: new priorities must have additional funding. i hope that there will be a multiannual financial framework for more than seven years, to give predictability, with the flexibility that is required to be able to respond to unforeseen events. i also expect a new heading for security and defence and i would also like, finally, for the vice-president to tell us, if he already has this information, as regards the budget line for the euro zone and for those who want to join the euro zone, what is the amount that is planned for this budget line that will be within the budget of the european union.
madam president, once again the commission insists on presenting the same proposals and the same paths: loss of economic, monetary, fiscal and banking sovereignty to the benefit of the great european powers, austerity, impoverishment, exploitation, concentration of wealth for some, poverty and uncertainty for others, more investment in the war industry and in security measures and the abolition of the rights of asylum and refugees. more of the same, without drawing any lessons from the policies they have imposed and want to continue to impose. the needs are clear and obvious: strengthening cohesion funds to counter growing asymmetries, defending democracy within the framework of state sovereignty, advocating progressive development policies that respond to the needs of the people and use resources and capacities for their own benefit, support for countries affected by disasters and targeted at prevention mechanisms, supporting the recovery of productive sectors in countries like portugal with support for fisheries, agriculture and industry, support that is channelled primarily to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, support and policies that favour necessary public policies in strategic sectors such as energy, transport and communications, support and policies based on the provision of free and quality public services in sectors such as health, education and science, social justice, support for research and capacity building, support for collective bargaining, reduction of production costs, and policies that promote increased social security, increased production capacity, and increased social security, and support for job creation.
in writing. reflecting the crisis of an exhausted capitalist integration process, which has little to offer workers and peoples but more of the same more social backsliding, more injustices and inequalities, more economic divergence, more attacks on democracy and the right of peoples to freely and sovereignly decide their destiny , the european commission presents a work programme for 2018 that is not surprising, but that, for that reason, is cause for concern. the general sense is that of the continued loss of sovereignty by states, especially peripheral states, to the benefit of the great european powers who control the eu institutions. more neoliberalism, you know? more of a single market. more investment in the arms industry; a militaristic and security drift with consequences in terms of the suppression of rights; continued attacks on the right of asylum, refugees and the most basic values of solidarity and humanism. what was truly necessary is forgotten. strengthening cohesion and its instruments. support for the productive sectors of the countries most affected by divergence agriculture, fisheries and industry. more entitlement work. the defence of public services and the social functions of the states. investment in disaster prevention, the environment, science and technology.
the european commission presents a work programme for 2018 which is not surprising, reflecting the crisis of an exhausted capitalist integration process, which has little to offer workers and peoples but more of the same - more social backsliding, more injustices and inequalities, more economic divergence, more attacks on democracy and the right of peoples to freely and sovereignly decide their destiny. the general sense is that of the continued loss of sovereignty by states, especially peripheral states, to the benefit of the great european powers who control the eu institutions. more neoliberalism, you know? more of a single market. more investment in the arms industry; a militaristic and security drift with consequences in terms of the suppression of rights; continued attack on the right of asylum, refugees and the most basic values of solidarity and humanism. what was truly necessary is forgotten. strengthening cohesion and its instruments. support for the productive sectors of the countries most affected by divergence - agriculture, fisheries and industry. more entitlement work. the defence of public services and the social functions of the states. investment in disaster prevention, the environment, science and technology.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have a united parliament with clear priorities: we want more employment, especially for young people, we want external and internal solidarity, we want a competitive economy and we want social and territorial cohesion. it is also a repeat of the council's cuts, again without any rational basis. the council is cutting into its own priorities - cuts against its own proclamations and cuts against its own commitments. it is not acceptable, for example, to cut horizon 2020, which is an excellent implementation, which is the largest research programme in the world and which is essential for innovation and for the competitiveness of our economy. i challenge you to explain why you are cutting 491 million euros in commitments and 111 million euros in payments in this programme. the youth employment initiative must be improved, but it must continue. support for the backbone of our economy, which is smes, must also be increased. cohesion policy is essential. external solidarity is also important. and then, commissioner and council, it is essential that we increase the implementation of cohesion policy. it is also essential that we have sufficient payments for the purpose of these programmes, which are in the hands and management of the member states. the budget of the european union is only 1% of gross national income. it would be interesting to ask how much it would cost the european union not to have this budget. i have no doubt that it would cost much more than 1% of gross national income, which proves the need for an increase, but also the importance and added value of this budget.
mr president, this budget is constrained by a financial framework that is short of the objectives proclaimed by the institutions of the european union and reflects a profound crisis of confidence which has led the member states to cut back on this multiannual plan. a financial framework which cuts back on cohesion and the common agricultural policy in favour of the defense and armaments headings, and which this budget naturally expresses, as in the case of the external action service, which is seeking to recruit five thousand people. a budget allocating to turkey twice as much as is provided for the erasmus programme, on the basis of a deal concluded by germany against the wishes of the other member states, but to which no one objected. a budget that focuses on financial instruments and the conditionality of support, while cutting back on research funds. in short, this is a budget which does not present any consistent solutions to boost investment and to counteract the path of social and economic divergence which is being accentuated by the deepening of this process of capitalist integration of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this report and the rapporteur on the protection of workers at risk from exposure to carcinogens at work, firstly because it expressly endorses the precautionary principle, which can be summed up roughly as follows: in the event of doubt as to the effects of certain substances on human health, workers should be prevented from being exposed to these substances, even if this means their removal from the workplace. the commission has also undertaken to carry out a study by the end of the first quarter of 2019 on the inclusion of re-prothotics in a future review of the directive. this review is justified by concerns that reprotoxins may pose risks to reproductive health, in particular to the development of the foetus, as well as during the breastfeeding period. there is, however, a concern, commissioner, mr president, which, although not specifically raised by the content of this report, is always present in political debates involving scientific questions. i am referring to the frequency with which scientific opinions on the same subjects are diametrically opposed. how can there be scientists who attest that certain substances are not harmful to human health, while others guarantee precisely the opposite? it is necessary to denounce and combat those who use science for the spurious economic interests of certain companies and entrepreneurs. in the age of fake news, we also need to fight these fake reports and these lies under the guise of science. thank you very much.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, agustín díaz de mera, for the excellent work he has done, whose seriousness and competence we have long admired. the entry/exit system also aims to contribute to the collective effort to make our borders safer. for that reason, the system is welcome. however, i have said many times and from the beginning that i have doubts about the added value of this system. it is intended, in particular, to detect overstayers, i.e. third-country nationals who overstay their visas. this information will be mainly quantitative, but will not allow you to locate them. i doubt that its high cost is justified by its superior value. i have doubts about its implementation, i have doubts about its real added value, especially in the light of the information systems already in place and in the field, such as the sis (the schengen information system). we must look at the management of our borders in an integrated way. information systems must be at the service of this strategy. but let 's be clear: the court of justice's judgment on the pnr agreement between the union and canada. i am confident in the soundness of the negotiated text and i will end as i began: i have no doubt about the work carried out by the rapporteur on behalf of this parliament.
mr president, the roma are part of europe's culture and values, but we all know that there is latent hostility towards the roma at all levels of european society and in all geographical areas of europe. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution in recognition of the fact that roma must be considered vulnerable people and that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union prohibits any form of discrimination. the special case of women and girls who are victims of discrimination, which feeds a vicious circle of inequality, exclusion and marginalisation, must be carefully monitored and combated. in 2016, only 16% of ethnic roma women were employed, 72% of roma girls were not in education or employment, and 71% of roma women aged 18-24 dropped out of education or training early. ladies and gentlemen, this resolution which we are adopting today expresses deep concern about discrimination against roma and proposes relevant measures to ensure that roma have access to health care, social services, education, justice, employment opportunities and housing. i believe that the implementation of these actions is undoubtedly an expression of a fair, humanistic and inclusive europe.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against illegal immigration and human trafficking must be a priority. and not just in the mediterranean. but the great challenge in the mediterranean is the flow of refugees fleeing war and whom we have a duty to protect. unfortunately, tens of thousands of people have died in recent years seeking refuge on our continent. the real debate, the honest discussion on the mediterranean, must focus on responding to the humanitarian crisis, on fighting human trafficking and on creating legal access routes. that's why, as early as 2013, we mandated that search and rescue be a priority in frontex operations. that is why we have given this agency and europol greater capacity to combat trafficking. and that is also why this parliament recently adopted its position on a mechanism for the resettlement of refugees from third countries and on the new dublin regulation. parliament was right to insist on a holistic approach and not a single sectoral approach with the report by mr metsola and mr kyenge. saving lives, legal access and fighting crime must all be our priorities without exception.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, it is very satisfactory that the unemployment rate and the youth unemployment rate in the european union have fallen to around 9.5% and 19.4% respectively. but we can't put our arms down. despite improvements, there are still 14 million young europeans without work, education or training. this is terrible and unacceptable. in addition to the tremendous social impact, it has a cost of €153 billion for the european union, knowing that the wider implementation of the youth guarantee throughout the union would cost us much less. we need to be more incisive in its implementation, strengthening it at national, regional and local level, aware of the importance of this guarantee in preparing young people for the labour market. on the other hand, it is also urgent to strengthen their monitoring in order to avoid mechanisms that falsify employment figures by means of traineeships and other training programmes, creating the illusion of a recovery that is in fact too fragile, without guarantees of sustainability. we have to be prepared for the future. we must be demanding in our commitment to education and training, especially in developing digital skills, to face the new challenges. this is an essential condition for defending the european social model, which requires the sustainability of our social security systems. it is precisely in defending this european social model, in balance with economic sustainability, that the european semester should be based. in this connection, we have proposed a procedure for social imbalances which, although not punitive, aims to strengthen the social dimension of european policies, so as to create a genuine european social pillar that will guarantee the future of the union, that will guarantee the future of our young people.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to say that this is an important moment for the democratic governance of economic and monetary union. in fact, in the report we are discussing today, the european parliament, elected directly by the citizens, has spoken on the direction of the economic policy of the euro zone. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, gunnar hökmark, because despite our political differences - which are obviously many - we have once again had the opportunity to continue our constructive work towards a balanced and overall positive report. i believe that is what we have before us today: a balanced and overall positive report. it is important to start by recognising the signs of economic recovery that we have been seeing in the euro area. we now have more growth, less unemployment, less deficit and more controlled public debt. but the first message from this parliament is a warning message. the european economic recovery we have is still too weak, too fragile and too uneven. despite the juncker plan and the turnaround of austerity in some countries, this recovery of the economy is still too much supported by an expansionary monetary policy of the european central bank which cannot last forever. that is why the second message of this report and of this parliament is that we urgently need to overcome the investment deficit that still exists in the european economy. there are certainly many structural changes to correct the architecture of the euro area and to defend our economies from speculation in sovereign debt markets, but the priority for investment is inescapable. we need a reinforced juncker plan with a fairer geographical distribution, but we also need a different budgetary policy, making full use of the flexibility clauses, and this is a central issue. the de facto finding of this report is that while the european commission has proposed a moderately expansionary budgetary policy, we will continue to have a budgetary policy which is essentially neutral. this is what we need to correct in order to restore the european economy's ambition for convergence and the ambition for economic growth and investment.
mr president, securitisation is at the root of the process of financialisation of the economy and at the heart of the speculative bubble that burst in 2008 and plunged europe and the world into a social and economic crisis, the impact of which still remains in our economies. securitisation is an instrument created by bankers to clean up their balance sheets, pooling more or less dubious credits and creating financial products that have never been, nor will be, simple and much less transparent. this relaunch of the securitisation market represents a step in the wrong direction. europe does not need more finance. europe needs more real economy, more jobs and more development. to speak of a lack of liquidity when the ecb has been flooding europe with asset purchases for months is at least strange. in short, what we need is a public financial system that serves the economy of businesses and workers. but this objective is not the aim of this neoliberal european union, which is at the service of finance and large multinational companies.
mr president, australia and new zealand are among the few countries in the world with which the union does not have, or is not negotiating, a trade or investment agreement. we now have the opportunity to change this absurd situation by launching these negotiations, which are already late. australia and new zealand are important allies and partners of the union, sharing the same values as us, including the ambition for a high level of social and environmental protection and a regulated global trading system. we therefore have all the conditions to conclude progressive, new-generation agreements which promote sustainable development, and it is for the european parliament to ensure transparency but also to safeguard european interests, including in sensitive areas which obviously need to be negotiated, such as geographical indications, the meat, milk, cereals and sugar sectors. if we do that, if we make progressive and balanced agreements, then we will be living up to the demands of the european citizens.
author. - mr president, i would first of all like to thank the members who supported my proposal and who have allowed us to be here today to discuss the neutrality of airline reservation systems and the restriction of access to flight information. we are witnessing today practices which violate the existing legislation on the code of conduct for computerised reservation systems, a code which, as we know, is intended to prevent abuse in competition matters and to ensure that neutral information is provided to consumers. we also see practices that restrict access to flight information, search engines and online agencies. the possibility of price comparison is limited. in the end, it is the consumers who are penalized with fewer flight options and higher ticket costs. the reference today is lufthansa, which since 2015 applies a fee of 16 euros for purchasing tickets outside its own website. from november onwards, british airways and iberia will apply an additional fee of eur 9,50. the commission has been examining several complaints lodged by associations in the tourism and travel sector since july 2015. it's been two years. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there has been no reply and no action. it is the commission's responsibility to guarantee the rights of european consumers and travellers, and these practices obviously undermine the consumer's freedom of choice. we cannot accept a europe of 28 with one weight and two measures. commissioner, we cannot wait another two years. is lufthansa breaking eu law or not? when will the commission put an end to these illegal practices by the airlines? and please give us the status of these complaints that reached the commission in 2015.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank our colleagues for their contribution to this very interesting debate just now. colleagues, i understand your concerns and i can promise you that i will make sure to relay all these concerns to my colleague, commissioner bulc. as i said on behalf of my colleague in my opening remarks, the commission is currently investigating the four complaints received, so i would not like to say anything which might prejudice the outcome. i note your concerns and your criticism, which will be very constructive as we continue to evaluate the regulation, in particular as we evaluate the provision on price transparency. our debate here this evening has been useful and informative as we try to find a way forward in order to ensure that consumers are treated fairly and continue to benefit from safe and convenient transport. in conclusion, let me assure you that the interests of the travelling public are what is driving the commission’s work in this area.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, this year a number of countries in southern europe have experienced particularly severe and devastating forest fires. many people have lost their lives. portugal and spain have been among the most affected countries. on behalf of the council, i would like to express my deepest condolences and sympathy to the relatives of the victims, to thank the countries which have provided assistance and also to thank the commission for its coordination efforts. last but not least, let me warmly thank all the firefighters for their huge commitment and effort. as honourable members are aware, the union civil protection mechanism, which we jointly adopted in 2013, provides for a number of measures to prevent, prepare for and respond to disasters. this includes the european emergency response capacity, which is a voluntary pool of member states’ assets pre—committed for immediate deployment inside or outside the eu. several member states have registered their forest fire fighting capacities in this pool. these resources have been deployed a number of times to provide assistance in combating forest fires across southern europe. however, despite significant efforts at national and eu level to prevent forest fires, we have to stay prepared and ready to respond in a more efficient manner to these catastrophes. at the same time, a swift and efficient response is dependent on costly, and therefore limited, resources. eu solidarity might prove its limits when similar disasters occur simultaneously in a number of countries. of course, when the commission proposes the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, the council will examine such a proposal as a matter of utmost urgency. finally, the council has attentively examined the commission’s recent interim evaluation report on the union civil protection mechanism. it includes a number of recommendations for further application of the mechanism. some of them are particularly relevant for the prevention of, and response to, forest fires. this evaluation has marked the starting point of reflections on the future framework of the union civil protection mechanism which the council will continue in the coming months. in this context, the presidency has taken note with interest of the recent announcement, reiterated yesterday by president juncker, of an upcoming commission proposal to revise the union civil protection mechanism. we look forward to bringing debates on this matter forward.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me also start by expressing once again my condolences to the families and the loved ones of all those who perished in the terrible fires of last week. also, to those who have lost their homes in portugal and spain. it is unfortunately not the first time this year that this region has been affected by deadly forest fires. i also wish to pay tribute to the heroic firefighters – brave men and women – and ordinary citizens that stepped in to help. in 2017, the forest fire season has been one of the worst in the last decade; southern europe has been very exposed. helping member states affected to fight forest fires has been a priority for the european union. the truth is that national capacities alone are not enough. climate change makes weather conditions more extreme in natural disasters more often. this is the harsh reality. the european union civil protection mechanism was activated 16 times because of forest fires in europe since mid-june. we have never seen so many activations in so little time. capacities such as firefighting aircraft, firefighters and vehicles were deployed on nine occasions. as commissioner for crisis management, i warmly thank all the eu member states that offered assistance through the mechanism. this is a true example of european solidarity. we did our best to provide support with the means at our disposal, but let me be clear: the mechanism has specific legal and practical limitations. our role, our mandate, is to coordinate – as my dear colleagues already said – and help with the transport costs only. we don’t have our own means, therefore we have to admit that sometimes our contribution is not sufficient. i would like to be very sincere: sometimes it was too little and too late. this is why we have already been exploring in the previous months ways to strengthen the mechanism. it was one of my top priorities. president juncker mandated me – and i want to thank him for this – to come forward with concrete proposals next month on how, together with our member states, we can do more to better respond, prevent disasters and be better prepared for them. this is not only – i would like to clarify this – about forest fires: just days ago, we had hurricanes hit ireland and the uk. floods have struck eastern and northern european member states in the recent past, and earthquakes have consistently shaken italy and greece and other countries. so we owe this initiative to our citizens, to the european citizens. it is now a priority of the commission work programme, which we adopted yesterday. the proposals will be on the table before the end of november. there are three areas that i want to explore. first, through additional financial support we must increase capacities to act rapidly and effectively. second, prevention and preparedness need to be at the core of the initiative: enhanced prevention and preparedness should be a precondition for additional support. finally, we must improve the efficiency of the mechanism to enable a faster deployment of assistance during emergencies. in order to do this, i will need your support. time is of the essence. the beginning of the next flood season has already started. the forest fire season has been dramatically extended this year, and the next one is in a few months from now. it is therefore crucial that we act fast, in a spirit of solidarity and efficiency. i know i can count on the european parliament to be a strong ally to support our proposals, because we must rapidly offer solutions to our citizens. they expect more from us as european institutions. in addition to the eu actions in the field of civil protection, let me also mention another important tool: the european solidarity fund. as you know, the european solidarity fund can provide valuable financial assistance to help cover a part of the cost created by disasters. support is subject to fulfilling two conditions. first, total direct damage should exist as a threshold which is specific for each member state or region; second, national authorities have to submit an application within 12 weeks of the start of the disaster. portugal has already submitted an application covering the forest fires that occurred between june and august. the commission will soon finalise its assessment; we are working on the basis of significant support from the solidarity fund. in parallel, we are currently discussing with portugal the possibility to extend their application to also include the most recent fires of october. for the recent fires in spain, notably in galicia, the damage has not been fully assessed yet. the commission stands ready to provide guidance and support to the spanish authorities, should they intend submitting an application. in terms of operational programmes, the commission also rapidly adopted the proposal from portugal to modify the original 2014-2020 central operational programme through internal relocation of the european regional development fund, erdf. we added two new actions. first, the replacement of the productive capacity of the smes that were lost during the fires, with a total erdf budget of eur 25 million. second, the replacement of public municipal infrastructure equipment with a maximum budget of eur 20 million. in addition, in portugal, the operational programme for sustainability and resource efficiency provides the possibility to finance a range of investments to strengthen disaster resilience, prevention and preparedness. in spain, the operational programme galicia provides the possibility to finance investments in early detections, prevention and civil protection.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, first of all i would naturally like to express my deep dismay at the deaths, both in the fires of june and in particular in the fires of the weekend of 15 october in portugal and spain, and also at all the material damage which obviously greatly affects the lives of hundreds, if not thousands, of families. secondly, i would like to thank the european solidarity that is being shown in this rapid and efficient way, as the commissioner has made clear here, and which is also being shown by the desire to reform the civil protection mechanism and which is also being shown by the desire that, eventually, all the measures we will take to reorganize the forest - because there is a structural problem here - may be accounted for in terms of deficit, which could favour the portuguese situation in european terms. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact that here in this house, in the state of the union speech, i was the only person who called for the creation of a european civil protection force following the barnier report in 2006, and that in portugal, over the course of these months, i drew attention to the fact that the portuguese state and the portuguese government have been divesting from civil protection and are neglecting the situation, and of course, as the technical reports presented in the meantime show, there have been serious failures on the part of the portuguese government too, which are regrettable and could have prevented some of the most harmful effects of this situation, and this cannot be left unaddressed. i would like to leave you with a challenge, however, and one that is, let us say, of greater scope: that, beyond emergency measures, even at the level of the support mechanism for civil protection and the fight against fires, earthquakes, nuclear accidents, industrial accidents and floods, we should be able to create a genuine european civil protection force, capable of rapid action throughout the european area, and which could even help developing countries, which suffer from many disasters and which have no means at all.
in the name of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, more than a hundred dead, many hundreds injured, the destruction of natural and built heritage of immeasurable value, images of pain, suffering, bravery, firefighters who were heroes all this is memory, it is a strong feeling and it needs a response. the european institutions have shown their awareness of the seriousness of what has happened in portugal and spain. i would like to thank you, on behalf of portugal and the portuguese people, for the profoundly symbolic gesture of donating the amount of the princess of asturias concordia prize awarded to the european union to the victims. we are facing a systemic challenge. we need to respond in forestry, in combating desertification of the territories, in strengthening prevention and in updating the mechanisms for prevention and relief. each country has to do what it has to do and europe can help and can complement and has done so. i would stress the willingness of the institutions to make the support mechanisms more flexible. the joint application of portugal and spain, commissioner, could help to speed up the response of the solidarity fund. it is obvious that not accounting for the investment in recovery and prevention for structural deficit purposes is an appropriate, intelligent measure and one that should be applied. in july we will be discussing another cycle of catastrophes. at that time i advocated the need to create a permanent european civil protection mechanism. what has just happened shows that it is absolutely essential to do so. the president of the european commission acknowledged yesterday in this very chamber: if we have a union of the defense commissioner, if we have a security union, we must also have a civil protection union. this is how europe is built: by responding to people's needs when they need help, in a spirit of solidarity. we need to start acting now. this is the second debate in four months. we don't have to have a third party discuss what we're gonna do.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the tragedy of the forest fires in portugal is due to the convergence of several factors, including the massive predominance of eucalyptus, the ineffectiveness of firefighting agencies, climate change and the policies of successive governments, which have encouraged depopulation and abandonment of the interior of the country. the portuguese state has failed miserably in fighting forest fires, because it has itself been captured by powerful webs of private interests that dominate the parties of the so-called 'arch of governance'. never have the portuguese paid so many taxes as today, but never has the state been so ineffective in providing the public services that can legitimately be demanded of it. the tragedy of the forest fires is also one of the most obvious consequences of the fact that the bodies responsible for preventing and fighting these fires have been occupied and run by people without the necessary qualifications for these functions, and this because cronyism and political patronage have become the official philosophy of the governance of my country.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, this dramatic scenario, as has been said here, is partly the result of specific climatic circumstances, but we cannot ignore the policies of abandonment of the rural world and the total absence of adequate strategies for our forest. it is important at this stage to mobilise all possible support for the repair of the immense losses, which have yet to be assessed, and to do this we need to speed up and adapt the funds so that they arrive on the ground in the coming weeks. it is also important to free portugal from the shackles of the euro, which have limited portugal's capacity to invest and to carry out structural forestry prevention measures, which have been long demanded by both experts and those in my party. in short, what we are stressing here is nothing more than what has already been granted to other countries, namely that the expenditure necessary for the reconstruction of the regions affected by this scourge should not be counted towards the public accounts deficit in the framework of economic governance.
madam president, at this time of grief, i offer my condolences and i appreciate the condolences. more than causes: these are left for internal debate. i ask you to understand the consequences. to speak of these fires in portugal, as in spain, but in portugal, is to speak of lives lost, many. over 100, when one life would be too many. it's about companies that are destroyed. it's about jobs being lost. it's about secular villages in ashes, pieces of our history. this is the case for half the forests burned in the european union this year. it is about people who have lost everything, poor people, old people who have no strength to make up for what they once had to live on, old and poor people who often fought the fire alone. it's about helping those who really suffer. it is this aid that gives meaning to the european union and, at a time when my country is suffering and justifies support, i also ask the european union here to be flexible and open to intelligent interpretations of the rules on the deficit, but to be as flexible as possible when it comes to interpreting solidarity mechanisms, or else to deny its very essence. the idea of a european civil protection force is being theorised - not invented - in a report by michel barnier in 2006. he was executed. i would also like to repeat what i have already written to the president of the european parliament: make an effort, using the money for what matters most. they help to rebuild lives and, if they consider existing measures insufficient, they mobilise to fund them or to create new ones. i'll end by saying that it's in times of tragedy that great leadership is forged. let us all rise to the occasion in these difficult times.
madam president, an opening word, as i could not help saying, to express our deepest sympathy to the families of all those who have lost their lives prematurely in portugal and also in spain. the loss of more than 100 lives in these circumstances is a case for which there is no memory in portugal. the portuguese state has failed in one of its fundamental tasks: it has not ensured the protection of individuals. it is regrettable and it is reprehensible. legitimated by the citizens who elected me, i could not help but give voice to the discredited manifesto of the portuguese in the state. we need and want answers and solutions. european solidarity must be felt. the response to emergency situations must be immediate. we don't need to discuss mechanisms any further. it is urgent to introduce the necessary overhaul of civil protection, which we have already detected is not working well. we have been discussing for a decade the importance of a european civil protection force capable of intervening in the event of a disaster in the community area. this is the time for the union to show even more clearly its ability to guarantee the protection of all european citizens.
madam president, the portuguese and galician people, in mourning and bewilderment, are confronted with the result of decades of poor forest management, land degradation, depopulation of the countryside and abandonment of rural populations, capture by the state for its own interests and disinvestment in prevention and civil protection, aggravated by the impact of climate change. in portugal we already have diagnoses, expert recommendations and government decisions to support the victims, to rebuild what needs to be rebuilt and to correct what needs to be corrected. to put them into practice we need vigilant citizens who are accountable. we need european solidarity, which must first of all be such that the national effort to invest in reconstruction and reorientation does not count towards the structural deficit. we need all financial aid to be activated quickly; we need a real european civil protection force, with the means to arrive on time. we need a european commission that is attentive and intervenes, because this generational challenge for portugal and spain is obviously also a challenge for the whole of the european union.
in writing. other the tragedy of the forest fires which have once again struck portugal, causing more than a hundred victims and material damage of a very high dimension, has caused us all profound pain. i would like to express my sympathy to the families of the victims of this unfortunate event which has caused absolutely irreparable losses. the european union, through jean-claude juncker, president of the european commission, and antonio tajani, president of the european parliament, has already expressed its heartfelt solidarity with the portuguese people. we recorded these gestures, which made us very sensitive. it is now necessary to continue the task of promoting integrated mechanisms at european level in the field of civil protection, in order to ensure a more effective response to disasters of the characteristics of the one that has just occurred in the future. in this way, tragic situations such as those we have just seen will be prevented from recurring. i am sure that this will be the path chosen by the governments of the various member states and the other european decision-makers.
in writing. the fires that ravaged portugal on 14 and 15 october have caused the loss of four dozen lives and millions of euros in material damage. moreover, they have dealt a severe blow to the portuguese forest. in particular, the vast area burned, equivalent to the total recorded in portugal in many of the previous years, deserves to be highlighted. these unfortunate events call for a deep discussion about the reasons, the immediate response, but also what we can do to prevent tragedies like this from happening again in the future. the possibility of setting up a european civil protection force has been raised more and more frequently. such a reflection should be welcomed now, as it would be an efficient way of ensuring a rapid and adequate response to the emergency support needs of the member states. in addition, this force would, in effect, embody one of the union's founding principles: solidarity. of course, other measures must be taken. because, as we all know, it's not enough to mourn tragedy, it has to be avoided. and in the case of portugal, this involves a forest reorganisation effort, which will only succeed if it is based on a broad national political consensus.
mr president, i congratulate mr chrysogonos on the spirit of this report, on the excellent work he has done and, above all, on the courage he has shown in including in it certain aspects of reality which political expediency might advise omitting. i am referring to the negative impact of the austerity measures applied in some member states on the administration of justice. i myself witnessed this in portugal, for as president of the portuguese bar association i wrote twice to the international monetary fund, the european commission and the european central bank, warning of the catastrophic effects that a mad-ass policy of justice based on austerity was having on the functioning of the judicial system. commissioner, it is urgent and imperative to take measures to deepen european integration in the area of justice. the institutions of the union will function much better and, above all, some judicial systems in member states will be modernised, which are closer to the holy office than to the justice systems of democratic states.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, our group is very clear about the importance of this operation which will take place this week in gothenburg and we are proud that parliament is represented by a large delegation, on the basis of the report adopted by a very large majority in parliament in january 2017. we are very clear on this point, but i also fully share the concerns of the green group and mr lamberts when he says that this pillar must be implemented. i am also pleased to announce that the s&d group intends to ask for a debate on this implementation to be held immediately after the göteborg declaration, i.e. at the december part-session. we will formally put this proposal to the vote to ensure that we get this debate in december. we therefore consider the debate to be important, but it would be more useful to have it in december than now. in any case, we will be well represented at the gothenburg summit this week.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, road safety remains one of the european union's priorities in combating the scourge of death and accidents on europe's roads, which affect hundreds of thousands of families every year. to achieve the goal of zero fatalities, we must move forward with concrete and effective measures, in conjunction with the member states, on vehicle safety, road infrastructure and driver behaviour. in these three areas, there is still a lot to be done: the fight against alcohol on the road, the remodelling of infrastructure and the development of safe mobility plans for pedestrians and cyclists, especially in urban areas, and the mandatory introduction of driver assistance systems such as e-call, which is already a reality and was mentioned by my colleague olga sehnalová. road safety cannot be for those with more money. it should not be only the higher end cars that have manufacturer-provided assistance mechanisms such as emergency braking, tyre pressure control, seat belt system, etc. these technologies, which help to reduce road fatalities, should be made compulsory for all vehicles. ten years ago, the industry argued that free e-call for all passenger cars would be a disaster for vehicle prices. well, that didn't happen. a simple automatic seat belt adjustment system mandated to prevent neck injuries could save thousands of lives and comes at a paltry cost. i hope that the european commission will take account of the excellent recommendations of parliament in this report and that we can legislate intelligently to change the paradigm of deaths per year on european roads: from 25 000 to zero.
mr president, commissioner, the real issue underlying this debate is the issue of religious freedom in the world. we in europe know too well what religious intolerance means to allow ourselves or to refrain from speaking out against it. unfortunately, today in most parts of the world, solutions of political organization prevail which do not take due account of this fundamental principle which is the principle of the right of everyone to freely express his religious beliefs or the absence of belief, where appropriate. theocratic regimes, in the name of one religion, completely override all others. regimes which practice militant atheism persecute those who seek to practice any kind of religious worship, and unfortunately these countries still have a huge weight around the world today, in addition to what are now attacks on religious freedom which do not come directly from the states but are promoted by some groups, namely terrorist groups, which around the world attack simple men and women for the circumstance of pursuing a particular religious worship. christians are particularly affected and i believe that we europeans have a responsibility in our diplomatic action to try to make the other countries with which we have relations, and where there is no respect for this fundamental human right, the right to religious freedom, aware of this, so that they can do more in this respect. that is also one of the duties of our diplomacy. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162, paragraph 8)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. if the issue is not put as i have put it, in my view, as a matter of religious freedom, we will soon be just pitting fanaticism against fanaticism. the question is deeper and it is a question of religious freedom, and from this point of view, europe has indeed some lessons to give, no lessons to receive, because we have been able to build a secular space where it is possible for people of the most diverse religious convictions to live together, from those who are atheists, agnostics, to those who follow this or that religion. if we get out of line, in my view, we will quickly enter, as we have in the past, into wars of fanaticism against fanaticism.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission attaches very high importance to the conservation of posidonia oceanica meadows, also known as neptune grass or posidonia beds. this is an essential habitat as a nursery and refuge for commercial and non—commercial species alike, and it provides a major source of food, regulates nutrient cycles and prevents coastal erosion. impressively, posidonia oceanica meadows alone bury some two 2 000 tonnes of carbon each year; it would be interesting to know how this phenomenal seaweed compares with our carbon emissions saving targets or the shift to electric vehicles. posidonia beds are a priority habitat type under the habitats directive, and member states have designated around 30% as natura 2000 sites to protect them. other measures, such as national protection measures and environmental targets, are set under the marine strategy and water framework directives. in addition, the common fisheries policy prohibits the use of certain fishing gear – like trawl nets – above posidonia seagrass beds and offers member states special fishing management tools to be used in protected areas or essential habitats. despite these efforts, in 2013, the status of posidonia beds was considered unfavourable in four of the seven member states where this habitat type occurs. and while information on trends is scarce, research studies point to regression rates in the order of 10% over the past 50 years, with losses mostly observed in the western and northern mediterranean. the commission expects further information to be provided by member states in 2018, when they will report on their efforts to achieve good environmental status in marine waters. the decline in the population of neptune grass is usually linked to coastal development, mechanical damage from illegal trawling, anchoring, beach nourishment, dredging, eutrophication and other forms of pollution. to restore posidonia beds, member states must establish site-level conservation objectives and restoration measures. new protected areas are also often designated. compliance is currently being monitored by the commission. the commission is supporting the conservation of posidonia beds through the dissemination of good management practices, the co-funding of life projects, and financial support under the european regional development fund, interreg mediterranean and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). the good news is that investments through life have played a crucial role in ensuring the effective management and restoration of coastal ecosystems. the programme has funded more than 20 projects since 1992, focusing specifically on tackling mediterranean seagrass habitat degradation through protection and even restoration. other cross-cutting coastal life projects have also contributed to the improved knowledge and management of posidonia beds. the mid-term evaluation of the life programme, adopted on 6 november, details the careful monitoring of investments via outcome indicators and targets. the emff also provides financial support for the protection and restoration of marine biodiversity and ecosystems, which includes a common monitoring and evaluation system. the commission, in cooperation with the member states, will undertake a review of the performance of the operational programmes, the performance review, in each member state in 2019. given its phenomenal ability to absorb inconceivable volumes of carbon from the air, the returns on investing in further conservation delivers an extraordinary public good and a real contribution to shifting to the low-carbon economy. this is a prime example of both why and how we must continue to secure sufficient funding in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, cop 23 devoted 11 november to the oceans and i therefore believe that the debate on the protection of coastal marine habitats is not only timely but also extremely necessary. when we talk about protecting these critical habitats for the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen, we have to talk about seagrasslands, which are vital ecosystems in terms of biodiversity and which provide many relevant services to communities and the economy. the oral question is in defence of the marine grass posidonia oceanica, endemic to the mediterranean and one of the most productive and most important species for the maintenance of biodiversity. however, this important species of slow growth and regeneration has been declining dramatically in recent decades due to human activity, eutrophication and other forms of pollution, as well as as a result of climate change and damage caused by anchoring vessels. at the our ocean conference it was estimated that the total annual value of the mediterranean's natural assets will be €4.66 trillion, representing about 20% of global annual gdp. however, a strong and sustainable blue economy depends on the preservation of marine and coastal ecosystems and our ability to restore them. i therefore consider it essential to ask you, commissioner, the following questions: what is the current situation and future evolution of marine coastal habitats, in particular with regard to the marine strategy framework directive monitoring indicators associated with biodiversity and seabed integration? how does the commission assess the investments already made through the various research and conservation programmes in the framework of the protection of ocean posidonia, and what programmes and funding does the commission intend to put in place to protect and restore ocean posidonia in order to increase its resilience and minimise the impact of climate change on this species? commissioner, we urgently need robust measures if we want a sustainable future for the mediterranean and i therefore believe that the answer to these questions is essential if we are to devise a coherent strategy for the protection of the mediterranean ecosystem.
on behalf of the s&d group. commissioner, as has been said here, coastal marine habitats are fundamental to the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen, to the productivity of marine resources, to the protection of coastal areas and to the other essential ecological services they provide to the planet. coastal marine habitats are those most threatened by human activity, either because of their proximity or because they are the first places to be affected by activities on land. the european union has, it is true, invested significantly in funding scientific studies and programmes for the conservation and restoration of the marine environment. however, in a recent nature article from 2015, it is estimated that in the last 50 years, there has been a 34 percent reduction in the oceanic posidonia meadows in the mediterranean. the case of ocean posidonia is just one example of how disruption of the marine environment can have significant impacts on an entire ecosystem, so it is of crucial importance to monitor and evolve key species, such as this seaweed. monitoring the evolution of the conservation status of key species for conservation, the impact of investments in the conservation and restoration of marine habitats and improving their protection are key to effective and continuous protection of the marine environment. knowing and communicating the results and improvements of conservation and recovery investments to all european citizens and, in particular, raising awareness of the importance of these investments is essential if the work done is to be even more positive in protecting marine habitats and species. climate change, which has also been mentioned here, is a reality, we all feel the impact of this change on a daily basis, so the protection and recovery of species such as the ocean posidonia, which play important roles in coastal protection and other ecological services, is essential. the protection and recovery of habitats and species are actions that cannot be dissociated from the commitments to reduce carbon emissions in order to overcome climate change. the european union, it must be admitted, has been at the forefront and committed to combating climate change. but it must be borne in mind that the knowledge, protection and restoration of marine habitats, in particular coastal habitats, is an important point in combating these changes. i conclude by stressing the need to improve knowledge and monitoring of ocean posidonia, but also of other key species crucial for the conservation and preservation of marine habitats, which provide so many fundamental ecological services to the planet.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, coastal marine habitats and the species of fauna and flora that occur there are of high ecological and conservation value. the mediterranean populations of oceanic posidonia, as in general the banks with vascular provision in shallow waters, as is also the case of the zostera, for example, both in the mediterranean region and in the atlantic region, are important refuges of biodiversity, are important in carbon sequestration, are important in regulating nutrient cycles, in the elimination and recycling of polluting waste, among other functions. the threats to these habitats are essentially associated with anthropogenic action. commissioner, it is important in this debate to discuss what actions and resources that can be mobilised from the european union can contribute to the cause of conserving these habitats. it should be noted that, although these are habitats with a threatened status and protected by community legislation, there is to date no specific financial instrument of the european union for the management of natura 2000 sites, which jeopardises conservation objectives and the recovery of degraded habitats. it was important, commissioner, for example, that we start by closing this gap.
mr president, i acknowledge that the rapporteur has made efforts to have a report that is closer to the needs, but we cannot follow the final decisions because, as we have been saying throughout the various negotiations, the problem of retail financial services is not an information problem, whether it be on rates or currencies, it is not a transparency problem, it is not just a digital inclusion problem, nor is it a communication problem. the problem is the products themselves, the products that people have access to at the bank counter when they get there. in portugal, there was a group of bes victims and many people suffered from these very products. we still have structured, speculative products, and that's really the problem: is that people's savings can still be devoted to the casino of banking and not as savings, and that's why i want banking to be more conservative and products to be much simpler. that is what we need and that is why we cannot support the rapporteur in his proposal.
mr president, efacec energia and efacec engineering and systems, based in the porto district, are in the process of restructuring which will result in the elimination of 409 jobs. the efacec group has received eur 11 million in qren support over the last five years. moreover, the company's financial information shows that, compared to the previous year, in the last year there was an increase in efficiency of more than eur 7 million. since community support is involved, does the european commission not require any compensation? shouldn't you be advocating for job preservation? on the 10th, 250 workers went on strike and on the 23rd of november they will fight again for their jobs. the role of the european commission should be to support them and not to finance their dismissals. commissioner, when it comes to attacking workers' rights, the european commission has not forgotten to intervene.
much has been said about this tax scandal: much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, much has been said, we believe that this episode of the 'paradise papers' confirms the systemic nature of tax evasion, as we have always denounced, and also confirms the total inaction of the institutions of the european union in combating this tragedy. i hear many of you speaking out against governments, forgetting that these governments represent the parties represented here, and that they naturally criticise what is rightly to be criticised. and i ask, what are the interests that are being protected by these governments and by these parties which also represent the majority here? how can we explain the fact that tax havens, which are political economic dwarfs, can impose their law on the strongest countries? because this is the fundamental contradiction, a contradiction which stems from the neoliberal policy imposed on us by the european union and which leads the public authorities to be mere representatives of the financial interests of the european union and the world.
mr minister, mr commissioner, tax evasion is a crime, whatever the means used to achieve that result. just as criminal are the conduct of those who, in order to obtain illegal advantages, use the ways that the law has forbidden, as are those of others who, in order to achieve the same result, use ways other than those that the law has foreseen and forbidden. tax evasion is also morally repugnant, not only because it deprives states of the means necessary to carry out their social functions, but above all because it is carried out by very profitable companies and very rich people, some of whom are even presented as models of public virtues, as the paradise papers now reveal. let us be clear, mr minister, mr commissioner: the eu must quickly establish a system of sanctions to be applied to countries whose financial systems are complicit in tax evasion, so that these debates do not turn into mere routine and meaningless theatrical performances. helping someone eat a crime shouldn't go unpunished.
madam president, offshore leaks, lux leaks, swiss leaks, panama papers and now the paradise papers: this is just the tip of the iceberg. from scandal to scandal, it is now the turn of some 120 politicians and world leaders. those who are calling for more austerity and more sacrifices for the poor are the same people who are draining the coffers of the state with their tax evasion. how long are we going to continue to defend that these agreements, which benefit the richest 0.1%, are legal when they call into question one of the most basic structures of democracy, which is tax justice? it's all documented. the european union has the data and the conclusions on tax evasion, but we go from special committee to special committee and so far the only people convicted have been those who have done a public service and have denounced the scandalous situations. in fact, what we really need is a special committee on the "shame-lack papers".
the european union must reject all tax havens that exist for laundering money, concealing illicit profits, helping to raise the proceeds of crime. you must repudiate them inside and out, without doubt or state of mind. a blacklist, a real blacklist, is essential. it means a blacklist that is exhaustive and not a blacklist that is minimalist. to condemn in speeches what is permitted in practice is simply hypocrisy. however, it should be stressed that tax havens are not the same thing as more favourable tax regimes, which exist to help the most disadvantaged regions, especially the outermost regions, which do not have the same instruments for generating income, wealth and employment that many countries, fortunately for those countries, have. tax havens are not allowed, they are not acceptable in the european union. the problem is not the european union, certainly not the law. you'll be on the probation eventually and casually. if the law is broken in the european union in any case or at any time, then it is monitored and acted upon, not changed, as is often the case in the european union, in the shamelessness that exists in many other parts of the world. finally, a word about this committee of inquiry which was useful but was insufficient. it has shown that it is lacking, that it has far fewer instruments than many of the national committees of inquiry. there were many people, many entities who refused to hand over documents, who denied testimony when it could help uncover the truth, many who were rulers, underline and sign. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8)))
he asks under the blue card procedure. when mr nuno melo speaks of the outermost regions with special arrangements, is he referring to madeira? do you accept that this kind of reasoning that you are invoking is what justifies countries like malta, luxembourg and others in the european union itself, in fact, remaining true tax havens?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. dr. ana gomes, i did not speak about madeira. mrs. dr. is obsessed with wood. and what i want to say to you is this: to compare madeira to panama is an obscenity, it is a shame, and it is not for reasons of patriotism. you do it and it's very bad. as you know, even in your own party, they don't follow you. for some reason it will be. madeira is not panama, thankfully. madeira is an outermost region and may madeira continue to benefit from the solidarity of the european union, which is how it is supposed to be.
human rights, social justice, democratic contract trampled underfoot by governments, politicians and professionals caught up in the industry of evasion, fraud, so-called tax planning. that's what the paradise papers are exposing once again. legislative work in this parliament to make illegal so-called legal practices is blocked by member states like those i mentioned earlier in the council, which serve the interests of tax evaders and money launderers. we need tax harmonization and transparency in the european union, the list of non-cooperating countries with deterrent sanctions, we need to sanction offenders who refuse to disclose the schemes to the tax authorities. for example, in my country, portugal, lawyers are now brazenly mobilizing, refusing to comply with this obligation under the fourth anti-money laundering directive. we need public access to the registers of beneficial owners of companies and trusts established in the european union or operating economically in the european union! but a proposal to this effect, approved by this parliament after seven months of negotiations on the fifth anti-money laundering directive, remains shamefully blocked in the council.
madam president, after the panama papers, we have the paradise papers. once again, this data from thousands of companies and individuals shows us the urgency of concerted and coordinated action at the global level. the european union must be a pioneer, and therefore the member states, which have the primary responsibility for this, have a duty to act urgently, and also in a coordinated and concerted manner. in this area, shared sovereignty ultimately strengthens fiscal justice, fairness and transparency. an important step is the publication at european level of an offshore blacklist, which is, moreover, scheduled for before the end of the year. without this common list we will always have triangulation. tax harmonization is also essential, as is increased cooperation between tax authorities, for example, the automatic exchange of information. but tax harmonization does not mean harmonization of rates. it is also essential not to confuse more favourable tax regimes with offshore ones. article 349 of the lisbon treaty allows the outermost regions to benefit from a tax regime to attract investment, create jobs and promote development, since these regions are handicapped by their remoteness and insularity. this scheme, although it needs to be improved, has already proven to have positive effects on regional development.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this political debate, which i believe was of a very high quality. what i see, and i am not surprised by this either, is a very high degree of convergence of views between us on the political will, but also on the measures to be taken. this alliance between the commission and the european parliament is fundamental if we are to continue our fight against tax evasion, fraud and aggressive tax optimisation. the key now is to win the battle against tax evasion. to those who say otherwise, i still say that we have made, yes, a lot of progress in the last three years and i am impressed by this real revolution in transparency that is underway, with, however, a historic breakthrough that we must value as the end of banking secrecy in europe. but, you are all right, that is not enough, in the face of a phenomenon that is systemic and global. we must therefore continue to act with determination and with urgency, with even greater determination and with even greater urgency. in 18 months' time our fellow citizens will be voting to elect a new european parliament and if we do not show some change on this fundamental issue, we will lose all these elections to the populists, the cynics who are, in truth, the allies of the fraudsters. so we all have to take responsibility. all of them? who is this? it is first of all the member states, which have already started their evolution, but which sometimes still have reservations, which must go further, which must accelerate their work, which must conclude quickly on the proposals on the table. i am thinking of the announcement on 5 december of the european list of tax havens and deterrent sanctions. i'm thinking of rules like the fight against tax intermediaries in six months. i am thinking of a european corporate tax base within a year and i am also thinking, of course, of the ongoing trilogue on money laundering. the european commission must then take its responsibilities. believe me, this commission, and i as the commissioner responsible for taxation, will continue this battle without fail, until the last day of our mandate. there will be no senior year, shy on this field. other proposals will come, all of which will promote more transparency, more cooperation between tax administrations, and until then i will continue to urge member states to adopt this list of tax havens. in order to make it credible and ambitious, we cooperate well with the oecd, i mean, but we have a higher ambition, simply because we have a higher degree of integration and criteria that are more powerful. the commission will be the guardian of this list, but beware, do not forget that this list is not proposed by us, it is not drawn up by us, it is drawn up by the member states. i would add, finally, that we will then have to prosecute those states which do not respect the rules, but i am making a commitment here: if the blacklist is not up to the task, if it is not credible enough, if it is not substantial enough, if the sanctions are not dissuasive enough, then i will say this, because i believe that there should be no hypocrisy, things must be extremely clear. the european parliament must also take up its responsibilities, that is to say, keep up the pressure, continue to exert its influence through the legislative proposals on the table. i will come here in december to discuss the pana report, and i congratulate its members. it is an excellent report, i must say. i invite your assembly to continue this work, whatever institutional form you choose. finally, i believe that we must collectively open up two avenues for the future. the first may not bring us all together, but i will put it out anyway, with my personal convictions. we must help the european and other countries, those which have made a little tax evasion a state business, to develop another economic and social model, and i say this for those for whom it is a business, but also for those for whom it is still tolerated practices. this revolution will not happen alone, it is the very meaning of political action. finally, i believe we must decide on the transfer of taxation to qualified majority voting before the next european elections. our fellow citizens - you meet them, i meet them - keep asking us for more social europe or for real tax harmonization, but let us not tell them stories, there will be progress in social europe, there will be progress in tax transparency and convergence, but there will be no decisive progress for social europe and for tax harmonization as long as we remain in a system where the will of one can paralyse, block, what everyone wants. the commission, as you know, as its president has said, here before you, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, will make proposals in 2018 to this end. i know how difficult this fight will be, i know that it requires political courage and i know that this will require your assembly, along with us, to put all the necessary energy into it, but i know that i can almost by definition count on your majority support and i want to tell you that on all these subjects, well, i will need it.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you to the commissioner and all the members who have spoken in this in—depth and highly thorough discussion, which i have listened to with great attention. first, there was this concrete question from mr giegold, who seems no longer to be in the room. i do not want to prejudge today the result of the trilogue on the anti-money laundering directive but i can reconfirm the rock-solid commitment of the estonian presidency to have an agreement by the end of this year on this piece of legislation. all things need to be seen in perspective and in context. i know people do not want to hear how hard other people’s work is. therefore i will not list again all the constraints that we have to face in the council while working on tax matters; which include unanimity, and this, mr bullmann, explains my diplomatic language. you only achieve results in the eu with diplomacy. i listed the initiatives and the new regimes that have been agreed on and that have been implemented during the last couple of years and it beats all the records if you compare it in the perspective of the last couple of decades. and this work is ongoing. at the ecofin ministers meeting in december, the estonian presidency will strive for the endorsement of a blacklist of non-cooperative third countries, as proposed by the conduct group. we strive for the adoption of a vat e—commerce package and we strive for the adoption of council conclusions on the taxation of the digital economy. i will conclude, perhaps, with one observation of a more general kind. some speakers here may have the impression that it is only the european parliament that takes the moral high ground here, that it is only the european parliament that stands for fair taxation, that stands for our citizens, and that governments indulge in hypocrisy, as if the member states and their governments were not interested in having fair tax systems, and as if the member states and their governments were not interested in tax revenues for their state coffers. all of us here are in the same boat and we are working towards reaching the same goals.
in writing. as the paradise papers issue has shown once again, tax evasion is one of the main obstacles to the smooth and regular functioning of our economies. it is urgent that europe takes a decisive stand against this problem. it is shameful that so many of our fellow citizens are experiencing economic hardship and facing the rigors of an economy in crisis when, at the same time, so many corporations and private citizens hide their money in tax havens to avoid paying taxes that would serve to balance the accounts of several member states. the socialists have always been at the forefront of the fight against this and other forms of tax evasion. parliament and the commission have already taken positions which help to combat this scourge. what is the council waiting for?
in writing. another scandal involving tax havens. the succession of scandals risks trivializing them before any substantive action is taken to solve the problem. this new scandal confirms the systemic nature of tax evasion. it also exposes the eu's inaction and complicity in the situation. the same people who impose poverty on workers and peoples are laying out the red carpet for big capital, which allows it to protect from just taxation the income accumulated at the expense of the exploitation of labour and speculation (a prolongation thereof). here is the demonstration of the false dilemma: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. no, i'm not going. what is needed is to put an end to these centres of economic crime which are tax havens and to increase the revenues of the states through a fair taxation of capital. greater fiscal justice and effective action to combat tax fraud and evasion are incompatible with the reigning neoliberalism imposed by the european union and governments which prove to be nothing more than representatives of the interests of large multinational companies and large financial institutions.
in writing. the european union has been involved in tax evasion scandals on a cyclical basis, with more or less legal contours, but with a strong detrimental effect on fiscal justice and the proper taxation of wealth generated on its territory. these practices have a strong impact on the credibility of the institutions and on the ability of the member states to develop their sovereignty policies and to implement the democratically legitimate social policy and economic dynamism options. the european parliament, by setting up committees of inquiry which have been mapping the contours of harmful behaviour, has made a valuable contribution to making the european commission and the member states more effective in combating tax evasion and avoidance, which penalise taxpayers and weaken the union as a global economic power. the european commission has therefore taken positive steps, but further action is needed in the fight against corruption and in active cooperation between administrations to prevent tax evasion and promote tax harmonisation within the union. these tax cooperation practices should be extended to countries which constitute the perimeter of economic interactions which may encourage fraudulent or ethically reprehensible practices.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, consistency in the enforcement of the union's essential consumer law acquis contributes, and must contribute, to strengthening consumer confidence in the european digital single market. regulation 2006/2004 established a network of national law enforcement authorities to ensure the consistent cross-border enforcement of the main union consumer laws. the evaluation of that regulation, however, showed that the existing rules needed to be revised to respond to the challenges of the digital economy and the development of cross-border trade in the european union. effective coordination between the various competent authorities within that network is necessary, as well as effective coordination between other public authorities at member state level. the agreed text is the result of months of compromise between the commission's initial proposal and the positions of parliament and the council, and provides for modern, effective and efficient mechanisms. as the shadow rapporteur for the european people's party, i would like to applaud five key aspects of the text we are going to vote on. first, it strengthens the enforcement of consumer laws throughout the union, without affecting the competences of the member states in this area. second, it provides a common set of broad minimum powers for the competent authorities of the member states. thirdly, it increases the level of harmonisation which results in effective and efficient cooperation between the competent public authorities, covering the whole dimension of the single market. fourthly, it involves consumer and trader organisations in the mechanism. and fifth, it creates a common union procedure for widespread infringements at union level, ensuring that the commission has a strong coordinating role. contrary to what some claim, the exercise of the powers of this regulation must be proportionate and appropriate to the nature of the infringement and respect the provisions of national and union law, in particular the jurisdictional guarantees and fundamental rights. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs olga sehnalová, the shadow rapporteurs and the european commission on the result achieved which clearly benefits the rights of consumers in the union.
in malta there is no blatant attack on the 'rule of law' by the government as we see in hungary or poland. the problem in malta is the capture of the state, through members of the government, mps, supervisory authorities, magistrates, police, civil servants, by financial interests or intermediary services such as nexia bt. for this reason malta opposes the transparency on the actual beneficiaries of the trusts that this parliament proposes in the negotiations under the 5th anti-money laundering and terrorist financing directive. the problem is not confined to the current government: the commission has been working on the matter for a number of years, and it is not surprising that the commission has been able to take a number of initiatives to improve the situation in malta. the programme for the sale of maltese and european citizenship is at the top of these policies with greater risks to the security of malta and the european union. the bombing of the courageous journalist daphne caruana galizia is a shocking testimony to this. prime minister muscat keeps the chief of staff and the minister exposed by the panama papers and has yet to allow an independent investigation into allegations of an account linking his wife to the pilatos bank. how can you ensure that the maltese government properly safeguards the independence of the means of supervision and the depoliticization of the police and judicial authorities? it is not even intended to end the accumulation of political and state functions with the provision of financial, tax and business services! we can't fool ourselves. malta must rethink its development model and cease to be one of europe's centres for facilitating tax evasion and money laundering. it is up to the commission and the council not only to put pressure on malta to do so, but also to ensure, through european legislation, that these practices are outlawed and combated in malta, in the european union - and there are more tax havens like this in the european union - and globally.
mr president, before the shocking assassination of daphne caruana galizia, before the massacre perpetrated against the freedom of expression and the european way of life, i can only recall the surprisingly sensible, calm and quiet words of mark anthony before the corpse of julius caesar in shakespeare’s masterpiece: ‘o, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth, that i am meek and gentle with these butchers!’. the only thing that we ask the commission and the maltese authorities to do is to grant respect and observation of the rule of law. malta is geographically and historically one of the gates and one of the doors of the european union. it should be the bastion of the protection of human rights, the rule of law, the independence of judicial power and impartially of criminal prosecution. daphne galizia was known internationally, was known globally for her fight against corruption. she reported on the corruption. she reported on the panama papers and we have seen, we have read, we have heard and we could not ignore that the panama papers are directly implicated with some maltese authorities. nothing was done to protect her life, to protect her job, to protect her freedom. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the new anti-dumping methodology we are discussing here is a really important legislative initiative. the aim is to defend the european economy against imports from countries which compete on the basis of serious market distortions and unfair trade practices. with this more stringent method of controlling dumping, the european union ensures compliance with the rules of the world trade organisation, but above all it gains an instrument to defend the interests of its companies and workers, and with an advantage, to also value social dumping, because it takes account of social and environmental standards and distortions achieved through wage costs. as has been pointed out here, it is not the end of the road. we need to advocate a thorough modernization of our trade defence instruments. but one thing is certain, we are certainly better off with these anti-dumping instruments.
mr president, there are those who try to hide behind successive european union-africa strategies the vision of the african continent as a huge arena of imperialist competition for raw materials, for markets, for zones of influence. the novelty may be that the hidden cat has already got more than just the tail out. africa and the african peoples do not need to be forced to accept models of political and economic organization of their respective states. they must have their sovereignty respected and their legitimate choices made in the light of their needs and desires. they do not need self-interested aid that perpetuates relations of subordination and dependence and that is increasingly asserting itself as the currency of exchange for the acceptance of the policies and interests of the european union, whether in relation to migration or the agenda of liberalization and deregulation of trade. they need genuine cooperation that gives priority to essential sectors such as education, health, agriculture and others, and that respects the sovereign will of the african peoples and their right to sovereign development.
mr president, cooperation strategies must help to ensure that the values of globalisation are fair and capable of responding to the issues of our time, inequalities, climate change, forced migration and security challenges. partnerships of association are needed, inspired by a shared vision of the future, which will allow the emergence of strong institutions. at the same time we have to empower individuals, give them skills and competencies. the eu-africa summit is an excellent opportunity to set clear post-cotonou commitments, enabling the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the paris agreement. the three clear options are: cooperation to improve the skills of the population, especially the youngest; the new digital networks as a means of participation and access to services of common interest; and the energy transition and the spread of access to clean energy sources for the population. we must build a partnership for the future that starts to bear fruit now.
in writing. – it is because we love and admire poland and the polish people that we must react to the ongoing attack by the kaczyński/szydło government of poland against the independence of the judiciary, including the supreme court. because not respecting the independence of the judiciary amounts to abuse of power and violation of the rule of the law, and we are already seeing many other grave implications: in the muzzling of the media, in the intimidation of political opponents, in the obscurantist gender discrimination against polish women, etc. to the point that piotr, a polish jan palach, recently felt he had to replicate in warsaw the desperate self-immolation of prague, 1969, under totalitarian occupation. ominously, alarmingly, 60 000 nazis marched in warsaw last weekend and the minister of the interior of the kaczyński/szydło government lauded them and echoed their racist, white supremacist slogans. i urge vice—president timmermans and the commission: do not delay triggering action under article 7 of the treaty on european union against this polish government. before these nazi fascists further disgrace poland! and the european union!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to the benefit of some and the disadvantage of others, summer has been prolonged in this europe outside, particularly in the south, but let us be clear, winter is coming and once again we fear the worst. at the beginning of this year, the appalling appeals of those on the ground echoed in this parliament: in greece, in the balkans, there were refugees dying and literally - from the cold. then, as now, we were faced with this complex puzzle of the so-called refugee crisis: lack of european solidarity, lack of human and financial resources, a perilous common european asylum system and a tragedy unfolding before our eyes in the mediterranean. but by january 2017, as now, the funds to deal with the problem had already been made available. the european commission has told this house that there are shortcomings on the ground which do not allow the money to be used in the best way. after almost a year, the same answer is not acceptable, nor is it acceptable that everything should remain the same. that is why, commissioner avramopoulos, in order to find solutions, we must not be afraid to identify both the responsibilities and the causes of the problems. the question is therefore clear: who is responsible for the fact that we still have the same problem? is the greek government failing? is the european union not providing enough? these are the questions we must answer.
mr president, it seems to me that the president who is conducting the work does not have the impartiality required of those who are conducting the work. i do not know on what basis you have decided to do so, but i would like you to inform us that you have decided to observe a minute's silence. i don't know if it's customary, i don't know if i should ask you now for a minute of silence too... but what is required is fairness in the conduct of work and not giving more time to some and cutting off time from others, as you have just done. that's not fair! you have clearly demonstrated your concept of freedom of expression and freedom of opinion! it's well demonstrated where totalitarianism is here in this house.
at the famous congress of tours in december 1920, the great french socialist léon blum stated, referring to the soviet leninists, who were then facing: for the first time in the entire history of socialism, you conceive of terrorism not only as a last-minute resort, not only as an extreme measure of public salvation in the face of bourgeois resistance, not even as a vital necessity for the revolution, but as a means of governance. that is, at the very beginning of the soviet process, there was a european left that opposed the soviet revolution. blum missed that convention, but he was right. the truth is that what was happening in the soviet union was the seizure of all power by a party vanguard which cancelled out any prospect of pluralist debate, prevented the affirmation of any model of democratic constitutionalism, prohibited the pursuit of critical reason and, given the class character it exalted, cancelled out its own universalist claim. a hundred years later, the balance we can take of the soviet revolution can only be a tragic balance.
mr president, no historical event has been the object of so much hostility and so many campaigns of lies and slander as the october revolution. no wonder they are. every achievement, every conquest of the october revolution is a good reason to make it an inspiration for all those who fight for a better world, with no place for exploitation and oppression, but at the same time, each of these achievements justifies the hatred against it that those who want to perpetuate exploitation and oppression brew. ample social rights, the right to work, the prohibition of child labour, the maximum working day of eight hours, the right to paid holidays, full employment, the right to housing and free health and education, maternity protection, equality between men and women, the decisive contribution to the defeat of nazi fascism, to peace and to the liberation of the peoples oppressed by colonialism: no attempt to rewrite history is capable of erasing this legacy. capitalism is not the end of history.
mr president, attempting to make a socialist revolution in a feudal country could only lead to the socialisation of misery and servitude, which was what was really there to socialise in russia in 1917. peace, bread, land and freedom were promised, but what was distributed was civil war, widespread famine, collectivization of land and a police state that suppressed all individual and collective freedoms. the murderous voracity of this police state did not spare even the leaders of the bolshevik party itself which had unleashed the revolution, as was evidenced in the moscow trials and the assassination of leon trotsky, thousands of miles from russia by a hit man of joseph stalin. albert camus once said that the bolshevik revolution had finally led to the realization of one of the most emblematic utopias of marxism, namely, the transition from the state of government of people to the state of administration of things. but, sinister irony, mixing and confounding people and things.
mr president, mr council, mr vice-president of the commission, of course the celebration of the centenary of the russian revolution is first and foremost a celebration of the death of tens of millions of people, and that alone is enough to condemn communism as an ideology and communism as a regime, just as we condemn national socialism, just as we condemn maoism. and here, this afternoon, many examples have been given of what has happened throughout eastern europe. but i would like to say that even in the west and in africa, in the case of portugal in 1975, for a year we were subject to communist repression, communist persecution and still today the country is paying the price of the nationalisations that were carried out at that time and that froze the portuguese economy for a long time. but worse than that, when the more than just, necessary and long overdue decolonization was carried out, we left the soviet union in angola, mozambique, cape verde, guinea-bissau, são tomé and príncipe and also in timor and we left the african peoples in the hands of cuba and the soviet union, to the greatest repression and the most unequal and vile regime that could have been installed. these peoples also deserve a tribute on this day when we celebrate such a fateful event.
in writing. every achievement, every conquest of the october revolution is a good reason to make it a source of inspiration for all those who fight for a better world, where there is no place for exploitation and oppression, but at the same time, each of these achievements justifies the hatred against it by those who want to perpetuate exploitation and oppression. in this sense, no historical event has been the object of so much hostility and so many campaigns of lies and slander as the october revolution. extensive social rights, including the right to work, the prohibition of child labour, the maximum working day of eight hours, the right to paid holidays, full employment, the right to free housing, health and education, protection in maternity, equal rights between men and women in the family, in life and at work. the decisive contribution to the defeat of nazi-fascism, to peace and to the liberation struggle of the peoples oppressed by colonialism. no attempt to rewrite history will erase this legacy.
mr president, commissioners, we are in fact faced with a mobility package, a second mobility package, which, along with the first, also sets ambitious objectives for transport at union level. as one of the drafters of the first mobility package, i will of course be striving to reach common and balanced positions which will allow us to safeguard the free movement of services and goods on the one hand, but also make the transport sector more competitive on the other. we clearly need to reduce unnecessary burdens - that is a fact - but we must not give up the guarantee of defending the social pillar. the objective of real decarbonisation of transport in the union should therefore be seen as an opportunity. an opportunity, because it opens doors to innovation and research. as regards the proposal on the transeuropean implementation of alternative fuel infrastructures, we know that each country has its own priorities and strategy. despite the mandatory nature of the directive in force, we are also aware that there is no coherent policy in the union, there is no coordination of policies and there are even some differences in crossborder links. i would therefore leave the commissioners with two questions. in view of these divergent priorities in the member states, how does the commission intend to create this european area of alternative fuels? finally, as a member of the outermost regions, how can the commission ensure that these regions are not left behind when it comes to attracting investment in alternative fuels, particularly in port infrastructure, and when the member states do not, in some cases, give priority to this issue?
mr president, commissioners, i welcome the interinstitutional agreement reached to bring about a new stage in the emissions market. it was another step towards bringing the european union closer to meeting the paris goals and reinforcing our potential to lead the energy transition. we will soon be called on to take new steps: the review of the renewable energy directive, the energy efficiency directive and the 'governance' regulation. these are critical steps where mobility plays a key role and we cannot risk failing. clean transport electrification, coupled with smart management made possible by new digital technologies, makes mobility one of the biggest challenges for economic and social innovation for the next decade. the european commission should therefore be even more ambitious in the mobility package now presented: more ambitious in its priorities, policies and targets. we can't hesitate in our choice. those who lose this battle will be irrevocably left behind in the platform of knowledge, wealth creation, employment and quality of life that smart mobility means. we have the lucidity to dare, commissioners. without ambition, we'll be stuck on the road lamenting our collective failure.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. other madam president, this report is of the utmost importance. in fact, tackling inequality is a fundamental mechanism, it is a fundamental means not only of promoting employment but also of promoting growth. unfortunately, we have seen in recent years how inequalities have affected the economic development and economic performance of the various member states, and this is largely due to the design of economic policies that we have had in recent years as well. these economic policies have exacerbated inequalities, notably through austerity policies, but also through unfair fiscal policies, and we have here a number of cases to show how tax evasion and tax evasion also themselves cause not only a situation of profoundly unequal treatment but also of immense inequality. unemployment is one of the biggest problems we have and therefore tackling inequalities is also a way of creating jobs and of being able to have economic development and economic performance that is fair and sustainable. combating inequalities cannot be just on paper, there is a set of proposals that are put forward. it is up to the commission to implement them, it is up to us to monitor and to put forward the legislative proposal.
madam president, this report is contradictory. on the one hand, it states, and rightly so, that the fight against inequalities will be done by defending collective bargaining, by raising wages, by regulating working hours and combating precarious work, by increasing social benefits, by strengthening and making universal social protection services and by promoting universal public services in the areas of health and education. it also stressed that the mitigation of these inequalities should be consolidated by strengthening the instruments which have inexorably attacked labour and social rights or contributed to the increase in inequalities. the european semester or the deepening of economic and monetary union are instruments which, under the social washing that is being prepared for them, with the deception that is the european pillar of social rights and which includes concepts such as a carers' leave that will push women home, preventing their socioeconomic emancipation, will continue to dig the pit of injustices, inequalities and poverty.
madam president, commissioner, it is clear that economic inequality is a clear contributor to financial instability and to the waste of human resources. the deep crisis of 2008 was a mirror of that, and austerity policies were a disaster, in every sense of austerity. on the other hand, economic growth does not necessarily mean a reduction in inequalities. in this sense, there are priority objectives which must be embraced by all of us and which are reflected in this report: universal education which understands that the starting points are unequal, a society where economic prosperity means living wages, the creation of jobs which benefit the economy but also workers, a fairer tax system which helps real income redistribution and is able to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. above all, and this is also reflected in this report, there is an urgent need to strengthen employment policies, giving priority to young people and the longterm unemployed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
madam president, we are discussing social inequalities as the cause of unemployment and lack of growth, not as a consequence. that means we have to look at inequalities and see what the root of the problem is, see what the real conditions are that cause some citizens not to have the same opportunities for access to education, to drop out of school early, not to have the same conditions in vocational retraining procedures or in upskilling programs, not to have access to quality work. so to limit this discussion to the minimum income is hypocritical. we are throwing money away and we are not solving the problem, because we have to have an absolutely individualized approach here, because otherwise we are facing a vicious cycle of perpetuating dependence. this individual approach must be based, first of all, on access to and local action by psychologists, teachers and social workers, which is complementary to the means of financial assistance. it is necessary to include and hold accountable, also hold accountable the member states. we cannot limit our support for the most deprived to charity, but must activate genuine mechanisms of european solidarity which treat citizens as unique individuals, with the aim of social integration. supporting the most disadvantaged is not charity, it's inclusion, and inequalities are not fatalities. we want to work towards that.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, this issue we are debating today goes back to the coup d'état in ukraine and the minsk agreements. the european union intervened directly in the coup, at the expense of nato and the united states, at enormous cost to the budget of the european union and to european producers. this embargo has been renewed every six months until today. the impact on fruit and vegetable production in portugal has been enormous, amounting to some eur 15 million per year. the aid received can only compensate for a small part of the losses. so what we are demanding here today in the european parliament is that the european union compensates the producers who cannot be victims of this situation and reconsiders its neighbourhood policy towards russia. agriculture has paid a high price for the common agricultural policy, which has been increasingly liberalized at the expense of the income of producers. do not add this bill to one who has already been punished so much.
madam president, commissioner, farmers are paying the price for a problem they did not create, without, however, being properly compensated for it. the efforts made by the commissioner, which he has mentioned here, are commendable, but we still have a long way to go to make up for the absence of the russian market and to mitigate not only its direct effects but also its indirect ones. those who exported to this market have started selling to the domestic market and this is having a tremendous effect on the smaller economies. prices have fallen and the sector is no longer competitive for small producers. the producers in my region, the azores, are also affected by these indirect effects of the embargo and they too must be compensated. as i have suggested, it is urgent to define what is meant by a crisis in the fruit and vegetables sector, taking the outermost regions into account, as we have requested for the milk market observatory. only then can we understand the enormity of this problem and act accordingly. in addition, it is urgent to take the outermost regions into account in the definition of any additional crisis aid package, as has already been requested by parliament, also on my proposal. the outermost regions cannot continue to be dependent on national solidarity, on the distribution of the financial aid packages of the european union. the outermost regions must be considered autonomously. i'm counting on you for this challenge.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done and to stress the importance of this partnership agreement with new zealand. new zealand is one of the countries with which we are closest in the world, it is a democratic state governed by the rule of law, and it has an interpretation of international affairs very close to that which prevails in the european union, and therefore we have every reason to seek to strengthen political links with new zealand. in this sense, this partnership agreement can open a new phase in this field. but i also want to say that i hope that, in addition to this political partnership agreement, and with what it entails in the various dimensions already mentioned here, this will also be an important step towards making full progress towards the realisation of a free trade agreement with australia. i believe that the european union cannot close itself off, the european union must also open up in terms of trade relations with other parts of the world and new zealand is naturally, because of its political, cultural and values proximity, a trade partner to be recommended to the european union.
a point of order, madam president, to make a protest. it is now 12.10 p.m. and the document we are now voting on, although it is only an expression of your consent, is only available in one language of this house, when the document is dated 6 november. this is a violation of the principle of multilingualism, which limits the ability of members of this house to assess the document in question in their own language and which should prevent any document, this or any other, from being voted on under these conditions. it will of course be the result of what the budget cuts are in terms of translation and we have to make this protest.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner, the council and all the colleagues and all the colleagues who are here. first of all, a word of thanks, a word of thanks and a remark: there is a great deal of work by the rapporteurs, which we must emphasize, particularly siegfried mureşan and also richard ashworth, but also by all those who were in the negotiating team, chaired by the president of the committee on budgets, and who made it possible to strengthen our priorities, which also made it possible for the agencies to have their resources strengthened. the priority for employment, for strengthening our competitiveness, for promoting youth employment, for supporting young farmers, for helping small and mediumsized enterprises, for strengthening security in the european union, for strengthening also the institutions dealing with the fight against terrorism, for external solidarity, has been achieved. we have managed to reverse 1.2 billion euros of cuts from the council and we have strengthened programmes like horizon 2020 for research and innovation. we have strengthened, as i said, support for small and mediumsized enterprises with cosmo, we have strengthened the youth employment initiative. we cannot do and solve all the problems with this budget, of course not, because this budget is about 1% of the gross domestic product of the european union, but it corresponds to 94% of investment, with only 6% for administrative expenditure. in addition, in countries like mine, the eu budget represents more than 70% of public investment. national competences are in the hands of the member states and national budgets also have to help and have to collaborate.
madam president, my strongest feeling about the budget agreement with the council for 2018 is dissatisfaction. i do not mean that the present agreement is better or worse than previous agreements, but it is absolutely essential that parliament and the council should give serious thought to the budgetary procedure. the adoption of the budget, i.e. a legal basis for obtaining revenue and making expenditure, is an eminently political act, which implies that objectives, priorities and commitments are discussed. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one. the main reflection on the 2018 budget, and the main conclusion to be drawn from the numerous meetings and discussions, including the conciliation, is that a change in methodology is needed. that is what i hope, wish and propose, madam president. finally, i should like to say that, despite an attempt by the council, it has been possible to maintain the informal interinstitutional agreement without affecting the budget of the council and parliament.
mr president, commissioner, the presentation of the third report on the state of the energy union comes, as you know, in a week in which the european parliament has shown, through its votes in the itre committee, a strong commitment to a much more ambitious agenda. europe's transition to a low-carbon speed has moved from being an aspiration and a necessity to becoming increasingly a reality that is viable, generating growth, jobs and a better quality of life for europeans. i would like to highlight in particular the convergence between energy networks and digital networks and between the energy transition and the digital revolution. interconnections are key to the development of a fluid and competitive single energy market. the list of projects of common interest reflects this perspective but must be put into practice quickly. no member state, commissioner, can commit to ambitious transition targets without the market fluidity that interconnections provide. on the other hand, the concept of digital energy has to be deepened and applied more and more. it calls for other types of networks, in particular 5g networks and knowledge networks. it is with them that we can make the single energy market a reference market on a global scale.
mr president, i should also like to begin by congratulating mr arnaud danjean on his very serious work, which has attracted a wide support in the afet committee and is also an expression of the wide parliamentary support which this proposal will certainly attract. this instrument is absolutely fundamental for a very simple reason: we cannot oppose the concept of security and the concept of development. without minimum levels of security, it is impossible to create the conditions which can provide for the development of any country, of any region of the world. and we have very recent historical experience where this has been very clear. moreover, development aid itself, provided by the european union, is undermined if the regions to which this aid is intended are not in the least suitable security conditions, and therefore the mistake some people make is the mistake of wanting to oppose the idea of development to the idea of security, when they absolutely have to be associated. this instrument is a vital instrument for making this happen. some problems which were initially linked to this proposal have fortunately been overcome through a broad and participatory debate and i am therefore convinced that the conditions are now in place for a very beneficial instrument to emerge from this, both for the peoples of europe and for the peoples of our partner countries.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a better regulated global economy needs a multilateral tribunal capable of settling investment disputes fairly. the situation we have cannot continue. the anarchic multiplication of the most diverse arbitration systems in numerous bilateral and regional investment agreements, and the costs involved, do not guarantee a coherent resolution of disputes or the application of common rules. the european union is the world's largest exporter and importer of investment, so it is obviously in our interest to have this multilateral tribunal. and it is important that this debate should not be about the old model of private arbitration but about the new european proposal for a public arbitration system, as enshrined in the agreement with canada. and that is the commission's first task: to build confidence in the new model of public arbitration and to win the necessary support in the international community. the multilateral tribunal is only worthwhile if it is really new and not a solution from the past.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is indeed a historic night. so i have more speaking time, right? why are we doing this? mr fjellner is right that much of the debate in europe originated around the vattenfall issue. there was discussion before that, and also in other parts of the world there has been discussion of this. but that was probably the triggering event. it showed that there were issues related to transparency, procedures that were brought into question, and there were certainly questions related to legitimacy. this is a debate that is ongoing around the world. that is why it takes a little time to get everything right, because we do not want to impose a system that is european: we want to listen to our colleagues from other regions as well. canada and the eu are the leading ones on this, but many other countries are interested. we are looking at setting up a group of friends who could start the process, and start looking into more details of this. if i was unclear in my introduction: all the member states support this, it is not a commission-driven idea, it has the support of the member states. and i believe, judging from various votes, that it has the support of the majority of this house as well. we do not have to re-invent the wheel. we could very well envisage incorporating this into an existing organisation. the united nations commission on international trade law (uncitral) is now discussing it, they agreed that the system needs to be reviewed, so discussions are taking place there. the international centre for settlement of investment disputes (icsid) is one possibility, although it handles only 60% of cases, so there is not full coverage, and unanimity is required to change the rules, so that could be a cumbersome process, but it is certainly not excluded. issues related to tax evasion are important, mr marias, but they will not be discussed in the multilateral investment court. the intra-eu bilateral investment treaties (bits) are to be abolished. they cannot be transferred in. coming back to another question, there is a process being discussed internally to review the energy charter as well, and we are looking into this. one of my colleague is responsible, and we could come back to report on how that is going. what would the new court look like? it will have to have independent judges and they will be appointed on a permanent basis; there will have to be two instances; and there will have to be some sort of secretariat – not a huge bureaucracy but a secretariat. there will be costs, depending on how many participate. for purposes of comparison, the appellate body in the world trade organisation (wto) costs eur 10 million a year, but that is just one figure we can use as a comparative. the aim would be for the least-developed countries to pay less, and then we will have to see how much everybody should contribute. that will also depend on whether we create something new, or plug into something existing – or, rather, something slightly reformed. responsible business conduct is really important. there are laws that companies need to respect in the various countries, and european companies need to respect european laws even if they are operating abroad. discussions on investors’ responsibilities are going on in various international forums. there is the human rights working group in the united nations, and we are following that. it is a little too early to see how it is going. it was a bit dramatic at the start and the scope was unclear but we are participating and i have high hopes that this could lead to something, either as part of the discussion or in parallel. this is an important discussion and it is a firm objective of the commission that affected communities should have the opportunity to make their views known in proceedings before the future multilateral investment court, so they will have a voice there as well. they could be able to intervene with third-party submissions or amicus curiae. this should be allowed in the proceedings, but exactly how it should work is something we will have to come back to. lots of work has yet to be done. we are still at a very early stage on this, we need a critical mass of countries before we can begin, and i will be looking forward to continue reporting to parliament on how these deliberations are going.
in writing. i want to make it very clear by this statement that i agree with this question to the european commission and that it seeks to obtain some fundamental clarifications on the objectives, legal framework and mode of operation of this multilateral tribunal for the settlement of investment disputes. but at the same time i must say that i am not averse to attempts to use this or other parts of the trade agreements which the european union concludes with third countries in a sometimes blind and demagogic attempt to call into question an entire foreign and international trade policy. i consider these actions, carried out in the name of an outdated protectionism, to be completely out of step with the role that the eu must play as a global actor in order to protect its citizens, defend its values and even combat the deregulation that is the result of the process of globalisation.
in writing. in recent years, the inclusion of investor-state dispute settlement (isds) in trade and investment agreements has become the subject of increased concern and public intervention. some of the problems identified stem from the eiti, which is based on the principles of arbitrage. these problems relate in particular to the fact that the sgei has little or no legitimacy, consistency and transparency and that there is no scope for review. the institutionalisation of this investment dispute settlement system in eu trade and investment agreements through the inclusion of the investment court system (ics) is a further step in the creation of a court above nation states and above the sovereignty of peoples. it serves the interests of multinational companies which should be subject to the national laws of the countries in which they operate, as do most people and small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, the so-called pillar of social rights, signed in gothenburg, presented as a new initiative to strengthen the social dimension of the european union, is not really anything new. an initiative that keeps intact the whole of the policies associated with economic governance, the european semester, economic and monetary union or the budget treaty. the same policies which have, in the last decade, promoted brutal attacks on labour and social rights and which can only be seen to be deepening with more exploitation and impoverishment. in the 20 points, there are no proposals for raising wages, combating uncertainty, effectively defending collective bargaining, or a better redistribution of wealth. we will continue to denounce the deception of this pillar and to defend the need to promote social development, the appreciation of wages, the right to work and work with rights, the promotion of free and quality public services and the universality of social responses, including a public and universal social security.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the house very much for its efforts to solve this issue. as mr hökmark already said, the basic idea in this legislation is to make the market economy more healthy, to show where the risks lie and also to create a more solid rule base for the problems which may arise, as happens every once in a while in the market economy. but this piece of legislation does not overshoot the regulation. it just clarifies who is responsible, and for what. this will enable banks to build up buffers that can absorb losses when the bank fails, without jeopardising financial stability, and without burdening taxpayers. banks will issue debt under the new statutory category available in all eu member states. the debt will be ranked just below the most senior debt and other senior liabilities, for the purposes of resolution. it will remain part of the senior debt category, but as an unpreferred tier senior debt. clear, harmonised rules on the position of bondholders in the bank creditors’ hierarchy in insolvency resolution will facilitate the bail-in being supplied, by providing greater legal certainty and reducing the risk of legal challenges. this measure will give banks clarity so that they can build up buffers to absorb losses and protect taxpayers. it is also a key, and most cost-effective, way to comply with the global standard on total loss absorbing capacity, which requires global systemically important banks to build up a minimum level of buffers to be used in resolution. our ambition is to allow banks and investors to take full advantage of the opportunities of our single market to issue and buy debt, through harmonised solutions. once again i would like to thank parliament, especially mr roberto gualtieri and, of course, mr hökmark, as rapporteur, and all the shadow rapporteurs for this file. this was one important piece of the entire banking package. we still have a lot of work to do to finalise the whole banking package and we have to keep working together in a fast and comprehensive way.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. so we must not fail to point this out when we have the opportunity. the truth is that this legislative proposal, which revises the hierarchy of creditors in the event of a resolution, has achieved this near miracle: the commission has not only adopted it in an accelerated procedure but has also succeeded in obtaining a broad consensus, both in this parliament and in the dialogue we have established with the council and the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur, my colleague gunnar hökmark, but also the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups, for the excellent work we have had the opportunity to do together. this legislative proposal is important and necessary. it seeks to improve the rules of the so-called bail-in, the internal rescue of banks in danger of bankruptcy, which were created to protect taxpayers' money. these rules need to be clear. we've changed the hierarchy of creditors to create a new category of senior unsecured debt, which increases the ability of banks to absorb losses and achieve the necessary recapitalization. i should say that the socialist group is particularly pleased that the contractual maturity of the new class of senior unprivileged debt has been fixed at at least one year, that grandfathering has been established, that is to say that the new eligibility criteria can be applied to debt instruments previously issued. it has also become clear that debt issued by banks under the previous national legislation, but which meets the requirements now laid down, may occupy the same position in the hierarchy of creditors as the new debt category now created. finally, and very importantly, it has been clarified that nothing in this directive affects the possibility for member states to give added protection to deposits. i think therefore that we have a good solution here and we hope that it can be continued in the revision of the drb directive.
mr president, this directive harmonises the position of unsecured claims in the context of normal insolvency proceedings. this issue has become necessary in the framework of the banking union and the single resolution scheme which provides that all financial institutions, so-called systemic, can demonstrate a sufficient level of total loss absorbing capacity. this proposal has the merit of being consistent with the principles and objectives of the banking union to replace the logic of bail-out with the alternative logic of bail-in, i.e. to ensure a resolution without public funds it is necessary to safeguard that each institution can present on its balance sheet a set of high quality assets that ensure loss coverage and keep the bank operating at least in its vital basic functions. the problem is that the creation and operation of the banking union has not only failed to prevent the use of more public funds, but has also promoted the concentration of the sector, increasing the weight of institutions that are considered too big to fail. it is not by chance that the discussion of a backstop mechanism to give the whole system solidity is on the agenda. that is, everything contrary to the stated objectives. for our part, we continue to believe that only public control of the financial system can put banking at the service of the economy and not the other way around.
mr president, the european disability strategy should be considered as a relevant guiding document on the safeguards for disabled citizens. we note, however, the criticisms of disabled people's organisations and associations, also expressed in the report, of the limited scope of the strategy and its limited reach in the absence of funding for its implementation, and for not contributing to the objectives of employment, social inclusion and poverty reduction. moreover, these same organisations also state that the ratification of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities has so far had no effect on the measures adopted at european level. on the other hand, we reaffirm that strategies and intentions will be of little use if they are not accompanied by a break with the policies of the european union, which in recent years have been responsible for the austerity revenues that have had a dramatic impact on citizens with disabilities and which have promoted drastic cuts in social support, the attack on public services, the increase in unemployment, with the consequent increase in poverty.
mr president, commissioner, solidarity is today, in modern societies, a political imperative of democratic states based on the rule of law. it is not, as in the past, the expression of religious feelings motivated by individual beliefs, but rather a collective obligation of essentially ethical content. solidarity emerges from a principle of social co-responsibility, according to which, in a human community, we are all responsible for everyone else. it is no wonder that it has come to occupy a prominent place in the framework of the legislative initiatives of the european union itself. it is in this context that the european disability strategy must be framed. that a disabled person is, thanks to this circumstance, different is a fact! but the fact that she should never feel diminished in her status as a citizen implies a responsibility to all other citizens and, above all, to the public authorities. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. it is a legal and political obligation for this parliament to ensure that this body of rights has an effective normative content in the european union, but it is up to all citizens of the union to ensure that these rights are not reduced to the proclaiming ornaments of legislative preambles or the rhetorical flower of political speeches, but have practical meaning and utility for disabled citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to finish by thanking you for today’s constructive discussion and for your valuable remarks. it shows the european parliament’s strong commitment to the implementation of the united nations convention. the objectives of our european disability strategy remain fully relevant and we are committed to complete its actions before 2020. by 2020 it is expected that one european citizen in five will experience a degree of disability. the challenge is not becoming smaller, all the more reason to start our reflection on europe’s approach to implement the un convention after 2020. in 2018 i will launch an external independent evaluation of the outcomes of the current strategy. at the same time, we will ensure a structured process to collect the views of stakeholders and citizens. your resolution is an important contribution to define and elaborate the post-2020 scenario and i count on your continued involvement.
in writing. disability issues are central to building fair, supportive and developed societies. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities sets out technical and policy-based measures that deserve our support. the european disability strategy should also be considered as a relevant guidance document for safeguarding the rights of citizens with disabilities. but if paper holds up, what is needed is to translate the good principles and guidelines inscribed there into the concrete reality of the lives of people with disabilities. and here, unfortunately, there is a lot that remains to be done, as organizations and associations of the disabled have been denouncing. the ratification of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities has not so far had any effect on the measures adopted at european level. the lack of funding for the implementation of the european strategy is noteworthy. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. in addition, strategies and good intentions will be of little use if they are not accompanied by the necessary breaks with eu policies, which perpetuate the so-called austerity and have a dramatic impact on citizens with disabilities and their living conditions.
mr president, i welcome the development of this process which has made it possible to make the necessary adjustments in order to respond promptly to the realities of the mediterranean pastures and to the challenges of youth employment in agriculture and sharp price fluctuations. however, the milk package, with measures now extended to all sectors, has not prevented the latest price crisis in the milk sector, from which many farmers, those who persisted, are still recovering. measures such as the timely concertation of supply are difficult to implement by all. for example, in mountain areas or in the outermost regions, geographical constraints make it difficult to achieve a relevant trade volume compared to the other links in the value chain. the changes in insurance and risk stabilisation instruments are positive, but we cannot expect them to replace a strong public policy in agriculture, otherwise production will be abandoned and concentrated in only a few areas of the european territory.
mr president, the defence of agriculture is not a sectoral issue. it aims to ensure that all europeans have access to high-quality agricultural products at low prices. and so it's very important that we look at the value chain in a different way. and so it is very important that in this document we have strengthened producer organizations and the creation of trading organizations, ensuring that there are profit-sharing and loss-sharing mechanisms in place, so that when prices fall in the market everyone behaves in the same way, whether they fall or rise. i would also like to stress the importance of having created a new risk management instrument, namely income insurance, and of allowing member states to make financial contributions to these premiums. i hope that the commission will take these standards into account, since they are essential for the outermost regions, where it is also very important that we support generational renewal by giving more support to young farmers for new agricultural installations and by creating mechanisms for generational renewal and the transfer of knowledge.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on the inclusive work she has done with the shadow rapporteurs and their teams. it seems to me that a good compromise has been reached and a balanced final result. the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a priority for all. given the different levels of implementation between member states, it was preferable to remove the so-called eligibility criteria for fishing outside union waters. this ensures that there is no double penalty, which would only apply to fishermen and vessels from countries that are already fully complying with the control regulations. the prevaricators would benefit. ensuring that international fisheries agreements and european fisheries are not used as a tool for money laundering and tax evasion is a priority. the recording of information on vessels fishing in international waters, what fishing opportunities are associated with them, who their owners are and, very importantly, who the final beneficiaries are, makes all the activity carried out more transparent. at a time when efforts are being made to combat tax evasion, i was surprised at the difficulty of securing this particular point. we must continue to fight iuu fishing and promote respect for the environment and local communities in third countries, and we must therefore encourage fisheries agreements originating in the european union. we cannot allow the inefficient and dormant european international agreements to continue. marine resources are a common good and promoting sustainable, balanced and transparent exploitation by the community fleet is a way of demonstrating to our international partners how committed we are to this. this document is another instrument that helps ensure food security and fish from sustainable sources, as well as combating iuu fishing and transnational organised crime in the fishing industry.
mr president, the decision of the united states of america to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel is a violation of international law, an attack on the suffering palestinian people and a provocation against the arab peoples, with dangerous and unforeseeable consequences. a decision which cannot be separated from the escalation of tension in the middle east, the measures and threats directed against iran and lebanon, the military aggression of israel in syrian territory, the conflicts fomented by saudi arabia, the announcement of the establishment of a nato in the middle east: a picture of the general deterioration of the situation which is being fomented by the most adventurous and warmongering sectors of imperialism. in condemning this unacceptable provocation, we reaffirm our solidarity with the palestinian people in their legitimate and heroic struggle for the right to establish a sovereign and viable state within the pre-1967 borders with its capital in east jerusalem and for the right of return of the palestinian refugees who are victims of israel's policy of expansion and occupation of palestine.
on the panama papers, in the same week that we met with the council and the commission in the 9th round of negotiations on the 5th directive on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which has dragged on for eight months because of sheer obstruction by some member states, the council persists in denying public access to the beneficial ownership registers of companies and trusts and insists on maintaining loopholes and loopholes for the financial crime industry to continue to operate with impunity. even the creation of a european financial intelligence unit was ominously rejected by the council. the move to the fifth directive was prompted by the need to combat the financing of terrorism following the attacks on the bataclan in paris. but despite the reformist rhetoric, scandal after scandal and attack after attack, some member states do not really want to change. the capture of european governments by the interests of industry, tax evasion and money laundering is exposed in the absence of coherent and decisive action by tax justice against financial crime, corruption and the financing of terrorism. malta, where daphne caruana galizia was murdered, is a grim example of this capture. we know that our work in the european parliament, together with the investigative press, which i welcome, can make a difference. thanks to our pressure on the luxleaks scandal, commissioner vestager has demanded that the irish government recover the tax savings it allowed apple to make, and commissioner moscovici has made some unprecedented and positive proposals. we will continue the investigations into the panama papers and the paradise papers and expose the captured, the corrupt, the cover-ups and the criminals wherever they are, and many are here in europe, where there are many tax havens that are not on the list recently adopted by the council, cynically. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
he asks under the blue card procedure. i just wanted to ask you if, having arrived here, you are finally convinced that panama is panama, madeira is madeira, madeira has nothing to do with panama, that when you treat madeira as if it were panama you are not helping europe but are certainly harming portugal. and finally, on this occasion, in view of your final part, perhaps you would like to take the opportunity to say something about the current rare earth scandal in portugal and those involved, because, after all, it is very much your area and your word might have some weight.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. madeira is madeira and whoever brought it here was the member of parliament, and i think madeira is a tax haven. in fact, the justification for tax havens like madeira is the same as in luxembourg or malta: we are small, we have no resources, so we can enter organized crime. could be the drugs, it's white-collar crime. in my view, this is not acceptable, neither in portugal nor in the european union as a whole, and the commission has responsibilities here and cannot continue to endorse situations like madeira. and as for any corruption scandals in portugal, from jose socrates to the raríssimas, or whatever, i will be the first to do everything to expose them... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tax havens harm the poorest, they burden taxpayers, they harm competition, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, they undermine and also damage economic growth and our social model. the journalists, we thank them, have joined various consortia, denounced and made visible a problem which, if it is to be effectively combated, also needs a new consortium, on a global scale, that of governments, but also requires from us what we can already do from the european union. it is not necessary to standardize the rates, but we can standardize the tax base, at least the concepts and definitions. we should have a common and strict definition of tax havens in the european union. the proposals we have are also simple: the existence of a tax identification number for the european union, the automatic exchange of information between tax authorities, the introduction of a consolidated common tax base, the control of resident companies and the penalisation of companies which do not comply with the legislation.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and the vice-president of the commission, all the members, all the members, thank and thank my co-rapporteur, mr udo bullmann, for the excellent cooperation, for the loyalty, for the results we have achieved, the chairmen of the committees, the chairman of the committee on economic affairs, mr roberto gualtieri, and also the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr jean arthuis, all the political groups and their rapporteurs, a special word to othmar karas who has also made an essential contribution to economic matters. the european fund for strategic investments is a very important fund which has helped to mobilise investment, to reduce inequalities and also to create jobs. over eur 250 billion has already been mobilised and over 400 000 smes have been supported. its success is impressive, but that does not mean that the ambition to improve geographical distribution has not continued, and that is why we have strengthened the advisory hub, which is an investment advisory platform so that territories that have more difficulty can be supported. i remind you that this investment advisory platform is free for public entities. small and medium-sized businesses only pay a third of the cost, and we've reinforced the proactivity of the advisory hub, this investor advisory platform. we have also extended the scope of the fund: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. and here, too, additionality has been reinforced: an additionality where nothing is automatic and where the impact in terms of employment, in terms of investment in the area, has to be seen in the light of reality. less favoured regions tend to receive more support. this is not a fund for territorial cohesion, but it is a fund which should help territorial cohesion and it is a fund which does not come to replace cohesion policy, but also requires even complementarity with the funds we have, namely the structural funds. small projects are cherished, and that is also extremely important, hence the work we have done in this area. the investment platforms remain a bet, but the role of development finance institutions is also being strengthened and here i call for member states to strengthen their development finance institutions, their development banks, and those who do not have them should create them because the financial instruments are here to stay. the greater involvement of parliament is also extremely important. we also have a european fund for strategic investments, also known as the juncker plan, which involves parliament more closely. there is also a greater presence of parliament in this juncker plan, in this investment plan. i would like to thank the commission for being creative in a number of ways, particularly in the matter of financing, and i would like to thank the european commission for this.
for the gue/ngl group as we said at the beginning, we do not follow the logic and objectives of this investment fund. we believe that what is needed at the moment is a comprehensive public investment plan for all member states with positive discrimination criteria for the most deprived regions. there is no shortage of resources, as can be seen from the ecb's policy of quantitative easing. this juncker plan, by its competitive nature, favours above all the wealthier regions, does not guarantee additionality and promotes the delivery of public infrastructure to public-private partnerships. but if we look at the results in portugal, we see that the very logic behind the plan is not being followed. what we have in the background are loans from the european investment bank which could have been granted without the juncker plan. for the most part, we do not support the extension of this plan. we do not support the idea of creating another instrument of constraint for the national states, an investment fund which decides in an undemocratic way which investments to make and in which country. we, for our part, continue to advocate a budget of solidarity, with public funds, but in which it is for the national governments to decide how investment should be carried out in order to meet the needs of the people and then drag in private investment, which we have nothing against.
madam president, the agreement reached in the trilogue on the revision of the juncker plan is a good agreement and i would therefore like to congratulate parliament's negotiating team and our two rapporteurs. with this new version we will have a longer, stronger and fairer investment plan. finally, the problem of insufficient geographical distribution of investments, which tend to favour the most powerful economies rather than promoting territorial cohesion, was recognised. it is true that the dynamism of the countries can minimise these constraints, as is shown by the case of portugal, which, thanks to the excellent work of the government and local authorities, is today one of the countries most supported by the juncker plan. but we need these new rules and these new instruments to improve the geographical distribution of this fund and so that it can become, as it should, another strategic investment in favour of economic convergence in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also a solidarity fund and shows the importance of sharing in the european union. with the guarantees of the union budget we have encouraged investment and created jobs. more than eur 250 billion has been mobilised in less than three years, more than 400 000 small and medium-sized enterprises have been supported, and more than 600 000 jobs have been created in the european union. it is a fund that will continue until 2020 with greater monitoring by the european parliament where more transparency is required, that decisions are reasoned and public. i am sure that with instruments of this kind, with more sharing, with more solidarity, we will achieve the objective of employment, of helping the less favoured regions. this is an instrument which shows that the european union is worthwhile.
i am sorry, commissioner, but it is a disgrace that the european union's strategy for afghanistan has made a readmission agreement signed without any democratic scrutiny by this parliament one of its priorities. following the anti-immigrant rhetoric of the far right in europe, the strategy overshadows the tragic reality in afghanistan, marked by conflict, terrorist attacks, structural governance failures in a country where corruption, drug trafficking, the violation of the rights of women, children and the hazara minority is systematic. this agreement is inhumane, it violates the values of the european union. afghanistan is still not a safe country for anyone, least of all for the asylum seekers who are being deported. i salute the german pilots who have been refusing to transport them back. they save more than flight safety, they save the memory and honor lost by so many in germany and europe. contrary to the commission and the council's wishes, the deportees are not returned home but are thrown out of the way, left to the mercy of terrorists and organised crime. it is the fight against drug trafficking through good governance, education, justice, economic development that promotes employment and opportunities for young people that should be the focus of the european union's strategy for afghanistan, always based on respect for the human rights of all afghans, especially the majority of the abused citizens who are women and children.
commissioner, i join my colleagues here who have expressed some scepticism about the situation. the fact that an agreement has been reached between myanmar and bangladesh still does not resolve the rohingya situation. if we look at the statements of these refugees, most of them are afraid to return to their country of origin. they want clear guarantees. it will be up to us, european diplomacy, up to you, to put pressure on myanmar to provide clear guarantees that the violence against these people will not be repeated. the violence has been going on for decades, and one deal is not going to solve it. we also need to press for what some of our colleagues have said here, that crimes against humanity be investigated. it's impossible to say, we have a deal with bangladesh now and everything goes back to the way it was and forget that thousands of people were murdered somewhere. these horrendous crimes must be investigated, and i am also in favour of sanctions against myanmar.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the rohingya in myanmar, the largest stateless community in the world, have been the constant victims of torture, neglect and repression since the country's independence in 1948. the atrocities against this minority since last august have already caused a thousand deaths and triggered the exodus of over half a million refugees to bangladesh where they are currently in a situation which my compatriot, antónio guterres, secretary-general of the united nations, has described as a humanitarian and human rights nightmare. ladies and gentlemen, this house cannot but strongly condemn this ethnic cleansing and support the agreement between bangladesh and myanmar so that the return of the rohingya refugees can be carried out in a safe and sustainable manner without further segregation and military controls, and as the high representative has said here, i would like to congratulate her for her excellent work. as for aung san suu kyi, the de facto leader of myanmar, she has, as a nobel peace prize laureate, special responsibilities in promoting religious and ethical tolerance and cannot absolve the burmese army of responsibility for this violent campaign of terror and hatred.
mr president, permanent structured cooperation has finally been launched with 25 member states, including my own, committing themselves to investing in synergies in defence, an area in which the european union must respond as citizens demand. no member state has the resources to defend itself alone when cross-border threats multiply in a digital-dependent world, which makes it urgent to invest in the cybersecurity and cyber defence dimensions, including in the protection of critical infrastructures and in the resilience of our democracies to terrorism and hybrid warfare. this cooperation must translate into a strengthening of the european union's strategic autonomy and the industrial base of european defence and into more value for money for our taxpayers already spending on national military equipment and capabilities. this parliament must assume the responsibility for democratic control in order to ensure confidence, effectiveness and respect for international law, the cfsp, the common security and defence policy and the common security and defence policy.
mr president, madam high representative, the nuclear agreement reached with iran in 2015 has had the effect of generating multilateral engagement where previously there had been nothing but antagonism, mutual distrust and a worrying escalation of rhetoric. the iranian nuclear programme has gone from a situation of great opacity to one which allows it to be monitored and even restricted, and it should be remembered that it was signed at a time when it was believed that this country was on the verge of secretly obtaining a nuclear bomb. the failure of the long-standing embargo, which has particularly harmed the iranian people, has been acknowledged. this agreement, which was supported by the european union from the outset, has been a remarkable diplomatic success and has been welcomed by the international community as a whole. in his incendiary vertigo, president trump proposed to the united states congress to approve new sanctions against iran on the grounds that this agreement does not meet american interests. the european union must therefore make it clear that it will not waver in its support for this agreement. the failure of the agreement would set the nuclear programme back by decades, would return it to the state of obscurity it was in, and would bring back the fear that iran could develop nuclear weapons, thus contributing to creating even more instability throughout the middle east.
mr president, i give full support for high representative mogherini’s efforts in implementing the nuclear agreement with iran, which is strategic for the eu and global security. the eu should encourage iran to play a responsible role in its region and beyond, in contrast with the wahhabism fuelling terrorism and escalation by saudi arabian proxies. but the eu should also demand that iran stops supporting the military butcher assad in syria. the eu cannot also be silent about human rights concerns in iran, but to be credible and effective it must not turn a blind eye to the provocative activities of sects such as the mek (mojahedin-e khalq), which act within this parliament, and last week even physically assaulted an opponent just outside the parliament. this criminal act happened when the mek leader maryam rajavi was in the parliament. i demand from president tajani the expulsion of mek agents who work on ep premises. this is also a security matter for all of us.
mr president, i have listened very carefully to the whole debate and allow me, madam high representative, to say a few words. i thought your performance was extremely optimistic. i am in favour of preserving this agreement, but on the other hand we cannot relativizate the fact that iran is today a theocratic dictatorship, where human rights are not respected, where there are huge numbers of executions, destabilization of the region and many, many negatives of this criminal regime. sorry, in the face of this, to be happy that our trade with this country is growing, that our investment is growing, it seems to me that this is basically relativizing how a criminal regime exists in iran today. so let's be for the existence of that agreement, i consider it a great success and your diplomacy, but on the other hand, be always careful, because an agreement with such a regime can exist at one moment, but such a regime can terminate it at any time.
mr president, madam high representative, the nuclear agreement with iran was certainly one of the greatest diplomatic achievements of the last decade. however, president trump's decision not to ratify this agreement will mean a serious setback in the fight against nuclear proliferation and will certainly make the world more insecure. it is therefore up to us europeans to continue to lead the fight against nuclear proliferation. however, the implementation of the overall joint action plan and its impact on institutional and trade relations must be strictly conditional on the uncompromising defence of human rights and go far beyond the blitz visits of european leaders with agendas focused on investment opportunities or the promotion of energy alliances. but let us not forget, madam high representative, that iran is not a democracy and that europe cannot turn a blind eye to the continued human rights violations of the dictatorial regime of the ayatollahs, maintaining this unacceptable business-as-usual stance in the face of an oppressive regime that has a dismal record of human rights violations and is the world leader in the use of the death penalty. ladies and gentlemen, i end by repeating what i said more than a year ago: human rights are not negotiable, they are part of our collective responsibility as human beings and europeans.
madam president, stop the fiction that there is a libyan coastguard for the eu to train in libya. what eu member states, such as italy, have been paying is militia who fight each other to exploit the trafficking of human beings, arms and drugs. they operate horrendous detention camps and some migrants and refugees are slaves, or ‘abeed’ as they were called in gaddafi days. infighting between militia competing to take care of migrants for the eu recently destroyed the city of sabratha. by not opening safe and controlled ways for migrants and asylum seekers, the sad story is that europe feeds the human traffickers business, and it is big business! al-qaeda and daesh are taking the profits and bring the security threat closer to us in europe. it is time to try to stop the fiction that there is migration management in libya and governance, be it from president fayez al-sarraj or the criminal general haftar. it is time for the eu member states to wake up and demand action at the un, together with the african union, to dispatch a robust international force well inside libya to expel terrorist groups and to bring about a society for libyans with libyans. without that there will be no governance in libya. it will have to be with european boots on the ground, many boots on the ground. but after all, it is also about our own security that is at stake in libya. the more we delay it, the more it will cost in african lives and possibly in european lives.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of her report. unfortunately, from year to year and from report to report, we find that human rights, instead of progressing, are in some cases suffering serious setbacks in various regions of the world. it would be unfair to ignore that some progress has been made and that much of it has been achieved with the direct or indirect involvement of the european union. but these are still timid and insufficient advances. war and terrorism, the situation of migrants and refugees, human trafficking, slavery, the criminalisation of fundamental freedoms, the persecution of minorities, the repression of human rights defenders, the criminalisation of abortion, the contempt for indigenous peoples, the disregard for the rights of women and children, among others, all present a very dangerous picture, because they are phenomena that are often interlinked. this scenario therefore requires the european union to live up to its values and responsibilities. the truth is that there are millions of people around the world whose human rights are violated from many angles and who look to the european union as their last hope for some protection, justice and redress. and the european union, for historical, philosophical and cultural reasons, must do everything in its power not to abandon these same people.
madam president, this is certainly the time for ambitious european solutions, but this is not the case for the joint declaration to be signed tomorrow by the three institutions. it lacks this kind of ambition – to start with, on the way to deliver the european social pillar, because we want to update social standards for all citizens, starting with young people, in all member states. for this, we need to have more powerful instruments to support convergence: real convergence, economic and social convergence. take the reform package for economic and monetary union: we welcome the fact that important movements will take place to introduce more democracy when it comes to the accountability of the european stability mechanism. but let me be clear: if you want to have upward convergence, reforms are needed, but these are not enough; we need to have a stronger priority for investment, and this investment priority remains too weak in the integrated fiscal compact, too weak in the instrument to support convergence, too weak even in the so-called instrument to protect investment. the only way to have stronger priority for investment is to have an upcoming community budget with new own resources supporting stronger future—oriented investment. we need to get these, and we count on the estonian presidency to deliver on this.
madam president, the withdrawal agreement between the united kingdom and the european union must not in any way affect the workers' rights and other social rights enjoyed by citizens of the member states of the european union in the united kingdom, including the right of residence, the right to non-discriminatory treatment, the right of access to public services, health and education, the portability of benefits and social security rights, the right to family reunification, the mutual recognition of academic and professional qualifications, among other examples, something that is not acquired at the current stage of the negotiations and is not explicit in the joint motion for a resolution. any future agreement between the european union and the united kingdom should take into account the interests and specificities of the different member states. moreover, this agreement should not, and cannot, take away the right of each member state to establish relations with the united kingdom in a wide range of fields based on the interests and mutual benefit of their peoples.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my strongest disapproval of the way in which president tusk has presented the refugee question to the council. i think it is unacceptable for a community of law which defends human rights, which is undoubtedly a reference to fundamental rights, to treat the refugee question in this way and therefore it is deplorable and must be put aside. we stand with the commission and president juncker on this matter. i would then like to congratulate michel barnier on the results he has achieved, on his commitment, on his determination, on the way he has defended the rights of european citizens, including all british citizens on the continent and also in the british isles. and finally, he had a message for the brexit minister, mr. david davis: once upon a time, even gentlemen's agreements were binding. this is the message i wanted to leave. even a gentlemen's agreement is binding, which will be negotiated between institutions such as the british government and the european commission and the european council!
the best course of action for the negotiations between the european union (eu) and the united kingdom (uk) would be that which could lead to the uk remaining in the eu. there is, however, a democratic mandate of the british electorate for the negotiation of withdrawal, which must be respected as long as this is the expressed will of that electorate or of those who represent it. in this context, the european parliament's joint resolution on the negotiating process for the uk's withdrawal from the eu affirms a sensible line of negotiation, defends the interests of the eu and the rights of its citizens in the withdrawal process and already sets out the broad lines of a framework for future cooperation that can minimise the damage of withdrawal and preserve a good relationship between peoples. the resolution under discussion is therefore a good compromise text, which reiterates the red lines for negotiation set by the european parliament, identifies points to be safeguarded in the negotiating process in the field of rights, the irish question and financial compensation and outlines the future potential framework for association between the eu and the uk as a country outside the union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, social europe is back in european debates and political initiative, and the proclamation of the social pillar is indeed a very important moment to make sure that the roadmap for the future of the european union will be guided by this ambition to update our social dimension to cope with the new challenges. this is the level of ambition we should bear in mind. and we should have a second ambition, which is to make sure that all european citizens, wherever they live or work, in all member states, can count on a powerful upward social and economic convergence, because we are still dealing with many inequalities, and without stronger cohesion there is no future for the european project. now, after the proclamation, the time for delivery has come, and let me be precise on the expectations from the s&d group. we are now really focused on making sure that all people in employment, whatever the kind of job, can count on two very important things. one is a transparent and decent labour contract. this is particularly important for young people. the second thing is full access to social protection throughout the life cycle, and we believe these are two key pieces to building a welfare system for the 21st century. so we are now expecting the commission to table a legislative initiative on this, now that the social partners could not come to an agreement. but let me also say that we believe that updating social standards and social law is not enough. we need to redirect social policies and economic policies, and that is why the european semester is so important, because the european semester must become a powerful process to coordinate these policies for upward convergence. we appreciate the package presented by the commission. it moves in this direction, but let me tell you that the big test will come when member states are confronted with big macro-social imbalances and we need to correct the situation.
mr president, commissioner, the european social pillar is the historical expression of the european spirit, that is to say, of the ambition for progress, of the will to do more and better, in short, of the constant nonconformity to the achievements of life and history. the european spirit was born from the battle of salamis and the defeat of the dark. it is based on greek philosophy and hellenism, roman law, renaissance humanism, the enlightenment's illumination and the triumph of scientific rationalism over myth and superstition. this idiosyncrasy of europeans means that just 7% of the world's population produces over 20% of the world's wealth and spends about 50% of all social spending on the planet, allowing europe to have achieved, in peace, freedom and democracy, levels of collective well-being unmatched anywhere else or at any time in history. it is this european spirit which will very soon enable us, through the robotization of the economy, to free man from the oppressive and alienating aspects of work, and to make him a voluntary contributor to the economic, scientific and cultural development of mankind.
mr president, the 20 principles listed in the so-called social pillar are a hoax, an attempt to whitewash the policies of the european union and to spread the idea of compatibility between labour and social rights and policies which objectively limit or deny them. social justice is inseparable from economic policy. a truly social europe is not compatible with the policies of the euro, banking union, economic governance, the european semester, militarisation, securitisation, the constant attack on the sovereignty and development of peoples. the pillar is an exercise in intentions that are countered by those policies, and empty of concrete measures, that promote the effective combating of the serious social problems that exist. a truly social europe is only possible if it is based on the uncompromising defence of work with rights, collective bargaining, real wage increases, a fair redistribution of wealth and tax justice, social protection supported by universal and quality public services, universal and free access to health and education. it is not compatible with the policies of the european union or the interests it protects.
the so-called 'social pillar' is more than a kind of social facade that you want to put on a structurally anti-social building. it does not dismiss the intention of levelling living and working conditions in europe below the level of the present. on the contrary, give him shelter. social justice is inseparable from economic policy. a truly social europe is not compatible with the policies of the euro, the banking union, economic governance, the european semester, militarisation and securitisation, the constant attack on the sovereignty and development of peoples. it is revealing that, at the same time as the 'social pillar' is being discussed, it is decided to internalize the so-called budget treaty in the eu legal order. this pillar is a show of intent opposed by those policies and a void of concrete measures that promote the effective fight against the serious social problems that exist. a truly social europe is only possible if we uncompromisingly defend work with rights, collective bargaining, real wage increases, a fair redistribution of wealth, tax justice, social protection backed by universal and quality public services, universal and free access to health and education. it is not compatible with the policies of the european union or the interests it protects.
social justice is inseparable from economic policy. a truly social europe is not compatible with the policies of the euro, the banking union, economic governance, the european semester, militarisation and securitisation, the constant attack on the sovereignty and development of peoples. the pillar is an exercise in intentions that are countered by those policies that are empty of concrete measures that promote effective combating of the serious social problems that exist. a truly social europe is only possible if it is based on the uncompromising defence of work with rights, collective bargaining, real wage increases, a fair redistribution of wealth and tax justice, social protection supported by universal, quality public services, universal and free access to health and education. it is not compatible with the policies of the european union or the interests it protects.
mr president, commissioner, minister, throughout this year in this parliament we have had several debates on disasters which have taken on a great dimension because of the new context of climate change. it is a dimension and a reality that is new and therefore the answers must also be new. in all these discussions, after the diagnosis, we concluded that we needed to take action. improve and optimise response mechanisms at all levels and focus on union-wide cooperation. it is therefore very important, commissioner, that we are here today to see a concrete initiative that can provide immediate answers to the citizens. - i'm not going to. this is what the union needs. it is measures which translate into direct benefits for people, for their safety and for their quality of life. measures which mean a strengthening of european funds and resources and which are part of a common strategy. that said, commissioner, we cannot lose sight of the ambition to one day build a civil protection union, but that ambition must motivate us even more to implement the rescue and to take advantage of the increase in financial resources and available means. three ways to do that. in a top-down logic, to strengthen the common means, to streamline processes, to combine information and to share knowledge. support the strengthening of member states' means and indirectly create harmonisation and interoperability that will help improve national prevention and response systems. finally, by promoting cooperation and synergies between the means available, a practice which has already occurred on several occasions, but, as i said, with phenomena which are endemic, systemic and transnational, there is often no possible answer to all the needs. the amplification of disasters is not a theory. it is part of the daily life of people in general and europeans in particular. so, response amplification is also no longer a theory, and that's good news. let us put it into practice as soon as possible.
mr president, portugal is a tragic example of the need and importance of a competent european civil protection mechanism. our concerted and committed effort can save businesses, villages, forests, and most importantly, it can save lives. this year portugal has lost more than a hundred lives which, if this mechanism had worked as we wish and as we are discussing today, might perhaps have been saved. we must commit our resources to what matters most, and i stress again, what matters most in this europe which must be solidary, is lives, people. fires, earthquakes, floods, they will always be inevitable. the only difference will be in how we can predict them, how we can avoid them, and if they do happen, how we can face them and fight them. this will mean that it will even be possible to pool resources which are often scattered and not used for the benefit of all europeans in the future. do it then! i am sure that he will have the support of all members of the european parliament.
mr president, i would also like to welcome the commissioner and the minister for the council. i congratulate you on your proposal and on the work you have done. we all know the number of lives lost this year in the european union and in my country more than a hundred people have lost their lives as a result of fires. this shows that the solidarity of the european union must be expressed in concrete actions, and this new initiative is also a concrete expression of this solidarity. we must not, however, delude ourselves. it is true that it is essential to strengthen the european civil protection mechanism, but more important is the need to strengthen prevention. and that has to be the bet. and this is not the only fund that exists or will exist for solidarity, the structural funds are also for solidarity and must be used, first and foremost, for prevention. and that responsibility lies with the member states, and it is the member states that must take up and give substance to the dictum that prevention is better than cure. i would also like to conclude by saying that for new priorities we need new resources, additional resources, and i congratulate you on using the flexibility instrument in this proposal. i hope the council will also understand this simple fact that for new priorities, additional money, new resources, our proposal will always be that we should not accept reallocation and that we should use the margins and the flexibility instrument.
mr president, we agree with many of the considerations and recommendations contained in the report, but it is clear that the report under discussion today could and should have been more ambitious, particularly in terms of the need for defence and investment in sectors which already fall within the scope of low-carbon mobility, such as rail transport. while we understand the need for concrete measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector, we also understand that profound changes are needed in land use planning, regional and local development policies, distribution models, the construction, management and maintenance of public transport networks, infrastructures and services, public transport policies, road and highway planning and maintenance. this will only be possible if we break with the conditions and policies of the european union which make it possible, within the framework of the sovereignty of the states, to define powerful public investment policies associated with public control of strategic sectors such as transport or energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. what crime did you commit? giving birth to a dead baby. teodora shares a cell with 70 other women in ilopango prison. fortunately, this resolution takes a strong political position on the case of teodora and other women who have been subjected to the same inhumanity, the same cruelty, the case of the group known as the "seventeen", who are also held in the same prison and are also serving long sentences of several decades in prison. i believe that the european union's indignation and pressure on the el salvador authorities can be important in trying to reverse the situation of these women. i would like to greet the people of el salvador and to commend the vitality of civil society in this country, which has managed, after many years, to stir up consciences and put a discussion on the agenda on the decriminalisation of abortion. it is largely due to the courageous work of these civil society organisations that a legislative proposal to make abortion law more decent and humane is now before the national assembly. i therefore express the hope that it will be possible for the salvadoran legislators to move forward resolutely in this direction to put an end to this cruel and profoundly inhuman spectacle.
