mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these elections are taking place at the most critical moment in the european union's existence. that's good, because now we need another alternative, a better one for europe. after a long series of political, economic, migration and security crises, we must recognise that the brexit referendum was the first serious warning to the union. the union is teetering on the edge of a precipice. britain will leave, supported by president-elect trump. in the last few days, i and the other candidates have also released a series of documents in which we have outlined our reasons for running, our recommendations, our beliefs and the visions we want to put into practice. there is an obsession with political correctness, which leads to a lack of courage in clearly pointing out both the real causes and the obvious solutions for parliament and the citizens of our countries. if we really believe that the european union is in a deep crisis, then it is obvious that a superficial change will not be enough. no, i think it's not enough and please look closer and closer. the old speeches and routine actions don't work anymore. the europe of nations and freedoms group, which i represent, is calling for more democracy and more transparency in the european parliament. we demand respect for the millions of taxpayers who voted for our candidates, we demand respect for the rights of our mps in committees and delegations and we demand an end to the administrative harassment to which our political staff members are subjected. if this is a democratic institution, then why is it not allowed such a simple thing as giving a seat in the front row to our president? i ask for balance and fairness for all members, because democracy and respect cannot be the preserve of the big groups. we reject any affiliation, connection or sympathy, present or future, with any authoritarian or totalitarian regime. we all want parliament to play a bigger role. but first let us ask ourselves how the relationship with the european commission, which has consistently shown a lack of respect for parliament, really worked. we, the europe of nations and freedoms group, oppose any transfer of national sovereignty to any supranational institution. we want a europe of cooperation, which respects the interests of our nations. moreover, i believe that the strength of nations lies in the preservation and development of their specificities. and last but not least, we must defend inside and outside this chamber, individual freedom, freedom of speech and digital freedom. but back to the main question: what kind of president do we really want for the european parliament? some say we need a strong president, able to impose political will. but how fair would it be to impose such a will? others believe that it is not the president who should be strong, but parliament itself. but i wonder how parliament could act coherently and innovatively if it is dominated by political groups dictating an agenda? even if we don't share the same vision, we need stability. we need the patience and will of a president who can ensure that parliamentary rules and compromises are respected. whoever he is, the president must be fair, patient in negotiations and strong in decision-making to defend stability and fairness for all mps. at the same time, it will have to defend parliament's interests vis-à-vis all the other institutions. ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to vote for real change, based on transparent and coherent reform of this house. that was before we thought of any other form of union. people want a europe of nations and freedom, built on cooperation. we have to make the change in the name of the citizens and peace. i call on you to vote for the project i support and for a real democracy, extended and shared by all political groups and all members of the european parliament. real change never comes from outside, it has to come from within each one of us. and it could start any minute. may this day be the beginning of change!
in writing. the maltese presidency will have to come up with solutions to key issues for the eu: economic recovery, migration, terrorism, brexit and preparing for the new relationship with the us. as regards the pending files to be finalised, i ask the maltese presidency, as rapporteur of the european parliament for the regulation on common rules in the field of civil aviation, to make the necessary efforts to reach an agreement as soon as possible. calls on the maltese presidency to find the necessary political solutions to be able to unlock the single european sky 2+ (ses2+) dossier; as rapporteur for this proposal for a regulation, i reiterate the importance of this legislation for citizens: increasing the efficiency of the management and organisation of european airspace and ensuring safe, seamless and sustainable air transport. request the maltese presidency to seek a compromise supported by both spain and the united kingdom on the political status of gibraltar, which is also having a negative impact on the ses2+ at the moment. i reiterate the role that the maltese presidency must play in relation to the energy package, in order to find a balance in the completion of the ets agreement, an agreement which must not endanger the industries of certain member states, particularly those in eastern europe.
in writing. i have heard today the views of the three european institutions: the european council, the commission and the council of ministers. i see a convergence in statements, but i have a great reservation in being optimistic when i think about the solutions you have found in the past years. i think we need to act with more consistency and more speed. the internal market, reindustrialisation, trade defence, smes, jobs, citizens' safety are necessary objectives that need effective measures. we still do not have an effective trade defence of the internal market, there are imports of poor quality, often dangerous products, and smes are being destroyed by unfair competition. we also need to increase the safety of european citizens alongside the quality of people's lives. our citizens need to live in safety, but for that you need to find solutions for migration and terrorists. on brexit, it's good that you say you'll be looking after the four civil liberties, but the media reports show that britain has already imposed a tax on companies that employ "foreigners". what are you gonna do? the uk is still a member of the eu and must abide by the treaty. then there is the eu's credibility. we cannot continue with two europe (schengen and non-schengen).
in writing. the conclusions of the latest european council meeting include a commitment to conclude the eu-ukraine association agreement and to complete the ratification process. in this context, a resolution was also adopted by the leaders of the 28 expressly stating that respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms in ukraine is an essential element of the agreement. unfortunately, it seems that these lines were not read in kiev, as the draft of the new ukrainian education law represents a step backwards in terms of mother tongue education and ignores the reservations of representatives of national minorities in this regard. ukraine does not seem to understand that the eu will not tolerate the deprivation of rights of non-ukrainian-speaking residents, and that restoring the country's territorial integrity is unthinkable without resolving the situation of minorities. this news may cause legitimate concern to some, for if ukraine is acting in this way, what guarantee is there that it will comply with the relevant agreements in other areas?
in writing. we need a financial transaction tax as soon as possible to start taking direct action to prevent tax fraud, avoid double taxation and reduce distortions of competition in the european single market. only through joint action can we limit abuses and call for g20 global action. the taxation would thus be carried out at the place where the financial institution involved in the transaction is established, thus having an inhibitory effect on the process of delocalisation and bringing a real surplus to the budgets of the european union. with an estimated rate of 0.1% for equities and bonds and 0.01% for other types of transactions such as derivatives, the tax could generate revenues of approximately eur 57 billion per year. the european parliament therefore considers that this resource can feed the european budget in the future. the delay in the implementation of the levy reduces the european union's ability to implement common policy objectives. i therefore call on all institutional actors to speed up this process, which would increase transparency and strengthen citizens' confidence that the european union is an additional factor of development, and not an organisation financed entirely from national budgets.
mr president, commissioner, migration has become a cruel and painful reality for the european union and, unfortunately, it has not been possible to identify effective solutions to manage this phenomenon. member states, although in the schengen area, have failed to adequately secure their borders, with more than 1,83 million illegal crossings of european borders reported in 2015, according to frontex. certainly, this number is higher in 2016. all these people, whether we're talking about economic migrants, or whether we're talking about migrants fleeing bombings or bloody attacks in their own countries, are facing the same situation today: coming from desert areas, coming here, they have to fight not only with the social conditions and the weather conditions that this year seem to have been more severe than ever, difficult to bear even for the indigenous people. i personally visited the calais refugee camp before it was dismantled. a place that you would surely want to forget ever existed, a place as if forgotten by god, a place of suffering, but above all, an expression of our helplessness. today, we certainly need to show solidarity with those in similar situations and in difficulty. but let us not forget that within the european union we can only have temporary solutions. the ultimate solution lies outside europe's borders, in their own homes, where safe and quiet zones must be created for them.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms maria joão rodrigues, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european pillar of social rights (2016/2095 (ini)) (a80391/2016).
mr president, while i commend the report for pointing out the vast number of social challenges eu countries are faced with, i find that it misjudged the causes of problems and consequently insists on the wrong solution. the issue is not that the eu is not social enough. i would point out that the eu accounts for approximately 7% of the world’s population but around 40% of global public social expenditure. existing social challenges are not so much a result of missing social policy but mainly of insufficient reforms, including to the labour market, and the lack of economic growth and job creation. a more social europe should not be one that throws money at every problem it identifies, or one that stifles competitiveness – a precondition for job creation and sustainable social protection. rather, in full respect for subsidiarity, it should be one that promotes sound economic policies and encourages national reforms in areas such as education and active labour market policies.
mr. vice president, i congratulate you on your re-election to this important office. the european pillar of social rights is making substantial achievements for europe and the citizens we represent, and i would like to congratulate our rapporteur rodriguez for her important work. this pillar goes beyond political interest, and it reminds us that the european union is here to bring improvements in living and working conditions in europe. nevertheless, some people in this house still act to maintain precarious, unregulated forms of work, and to keep millions of europeans uncertain about basic rights such as maternity leave or protection of health and safety at the workplace. young people my generation can't wait anymore for those people to wake up and realize that without action we condemn our future generations to poverty. we need to build our legislation on decent living conditions; we need to stop the exploitation of zerohour contracts; we need decent living wages, and we need to properly finance european instruments capable of delivering results in terms of jobs, skills and social protection. so, dear colleagues, if you have in mind to support some of the amendments opposing that, please forget about it.
mr president, the european union is going through a crisis of confidence and a social crisis. the main antidote to the crisis is the european pillar of social rights, and we must act. i would like to congratulate and thank our rapporteur, mrs rodriguez, for her excellent report, the measures proposed and the reasoning put forward. the european pillar of social rights can fundamentally change the lives of our citizens, the lives of children, young people, the elderly, people with disabilities, workers. i supported all of ms. rodriguez's amendments because i believe in them. i believe in the urgent need to give people a signal that we care about their lives. the promotion of economic activities must all have a primary purpose, that of serving people. there is a need for greater responsibility on social rights by businesses, local and central national authorities. solving social problems has a triple effect: attachment to the workplace, increased productivity and attachment to the european union. i urge all colleagues to vote in favour of the report and once again i congratulate our colleague.
mr president, i congratulate you on the highest number of votes obtained by a vice-president of the european parliament. i strongly believe that we have to make strong efforts in order to adapt our social security systems to the living and working conditions europeans will have in the 21st century, ensuring that everyone has the necessary education and skills and gets decent living wages, maternity leave, sick leave, pensions and child care. the single market needs rules on decent working conditions in all forms of employment, so that all working people have basic rights regardless of the type of their contract. decent national wage floors must be ensured in all european union countries, secondary education should be compulsory and the skills guarantee should ensure that everyone has the skills needed in tomorrow's economy. a child guarantee should ensure that every child at risk of poverty has free healthcare, child care, education, adequate nutrition and decent housing.
before i give you the floor, ms rodrigues, mr løkkegaard would like to add something. twenty seconds, you mentioned?
the commissioner was not obliged to respond to this question, but i am very glad that she did, because we have now clarified this matter.
in writing. currently, eu member states are facing social and employment challenges, but also a continuous evolution of this market, with atypical or non-standard forms of employment: temporary or part-time work, seasonal work or work mediated by digital platforms. in addition, we are seeing a diversification of the workforce, which can bring benefits and generate other career opportunities, but can also generate drawbacks - prolonged economic insecurity, precarious working conditions, lower and less secure incomes, lack of social and health insurance, lack of career prospects and difficulties in reconciling work and family life. i therefore believe that more appropriate and more substantial strategic investment is needed to achieve the eu's social and employment objectives, but also more substantial support for cohesion in disadvantaged regions, with a view to making them more competitive and preventing further demographic decline, with a focus on reducing child poverty, and concrete measures to ensure access to free healthcare, education, decent housing and adequate food.
in writing. the european union needs a european pillar of social rights. but this social pillar must include a small number of social rights regulated at european level. in essence, social rights and policies must be the decision-making power of each member state. we consider that the determinants of social rights and policies are specific to each member state: demographic trends, level of economic development, traditions in social policies, etc. i believe that what is desired to be defined at european level goes far beyond what is necessary.
in writing. in the context of sustainable development and exponential change in all socio-economic areas, the european union must take swift and visible responsibility for the growing inequalities that have emerged in the european community, the increase in unemployment, work-life imbalances, poverty among children, young people and the elderly, and the systems needed to maintain health, security and human dignity. this is especially true given that, globally, the european union has high standards (not only) in social assistance and labour. this is because the developed european social model is the most advanced in world history, which gives and confers on the european union the leadership role in the field of social rights. it is therefore welcome to reflect on the existing social acquis, bringing together national parliaments, governments, eu institutions, civil society and social partners to develop a social rights pillar that addresses social protection and social services in an integrated way. clearly, the implementation of such a pillar requires instruments (including financial), public social investment, mechanisms, legislation and policies converging with economic, social and employment ones, so as to lead to an increase in the well-being of each european entity (especially employees and workers with typical employment contracts).
blue-card question. – dear colleague, as i know very well you are a lawyer, do you not think that the european union should intervene in order that indonesia immediately repeal its blasphemy laws, the electronic information and transaction law, and the provisions in its criminal code relating to rebellion?
madam president, the latest events from the world’s largest muslim majority democracy give rise to concerns about whether its hard-earned record of tolerance is in danger. although the words of ahok, the governor of jakarta, may have been ill-considered and rash, charging him with blasphemy seems to be an excessive measure. also, giving in to islamist hardliners in such matters of freedom of expression represents a dangerous slippery slope and also risks reigniting the communal clashes and anti-minority pogroms that are still in recent memory. i sincerely hope that, for the sake of promoting a tolerant society, indonesia will be wise enough to change course and avoid imposing restrictions on the right to freedom of expression which go beyond the provisions of the international human rights obligations it subscribed to.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, congratulations on your re-election. i welcome the fact that we are debating today the situation in the central african republic. we have not had such discussions in our parliament for some time. it is essential to show that we are concerned about this issue and that we are not indifferent to the increase in violations of international humanitarian law and human rights, including arbitrary executions, sexual violence and all kinds of attacks against the civilian population. on the contrary, we strongly condemn these grave crimes and, in the case of the most recent attacks on minusca forces which have claimed the lives of two moroccan peacekeepers and one bangladeshi, we express our sympathy to their families and their governments. the central african republic must remain on our radar despite the significant progress made and the holding of elections marking the success of the political transition. unfortunately, the country remains plagued by instability and sporadic violence. we must continue to support and accompany the efforts under way to promote peace and reconciliation.
mr president, the data economy is essential for the future development of europe. we are talking about an opportunity that we cannot afford to miss, to modernise our economy and our industry, but also to use the skills that we have here in europe. this transformation of the economy cannot be stopped. we have two choices: to be proactive or reactive. being reactive means legislating on the problems generated by the data economy after they occur, sometimes going too far and blocking the development of the sector at european level. the most illustrative example is the big corporations that have become rich using our data. years later, we reacted, but blocked the development of european companies by reacting too harshly. that is why i want us to be proactive, to stimulate the growth of the data economy through a common set of rules that are clear to users but also accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises. the idea of educational programs is a first step, but we need to reach our potential and we need to invest especially in cyber and data security. i think we have expertise at european level and i can say that, especially in my country, romania, we can find specialists.
in writing. – due to the rapid digitalisation of the global economy and the aim of the european union to be a world leader in this digital economy, the digital single market (dsm) strategy was adopted on the 6 may 2015 to ensure the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. building a european data economy is part of the digital single market strategy, which, through the best use of its essential resource, digital data, may deliver innovation, economic growth, job creation and competitiveness in all fields, including in health care where it could improve daily life. even if access to machine-generated data is under consideration in the health and care sector, the diversity of the data processed by machines for scientific purposes could improve products or create innovative services for patients. as the commission underlined in its communication, the ‘big data’ sector is growing by 40% per year, seven times faster than the it market, but all this data need to be protected. therefore, ensuring a policy framework is more than necessary, and parliament, together with the council, should play a fundamental role.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the alde group is calling for a debate in this parliament, not behind closed doors, as has been the case in the past with issues concerning romania, and we want, mr president, to have a debate on the state of democracy and justice in romania. i would like this debate to answer some questions, and the questions i ask are not mine as a politician, but belong to the community of magistrates in romania. we would like this debate to answer the following questions: is criminal policy the attribute of governments or of courts? are the decisions of the constitutional court, in a state governed by law, optional for magistrates, judges or prosecutors, or are they binding? is it necessary for conflicts between the political powers of the state to be managed by the judiciary? do we need parliaments to pass laws? do the laws governing the functioning of the judiciary need to be carried out, alongside the secret services, through administrative forms and not through law? so there are questions that need to be answered and the romanian magistrates, mr president, are asking for that answer and for this debate in the european parliament's plenary and we welcome the debate tomorrow.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president šefčovič, thank you for your work to make the energy union a priority european project and for delivering the winter energy package together with your commission colleagues. the european union still imports more than half of its energy needs, but progress is being made towards diversifying energy sources, routes and suppliers. the more energy efficient we are, the less dependent we will be on external energy suppliers. energy efficiency will allow us to invest more in job creation and innovation. the money should be better spent on sustainable energy production, on increasing energy efficiency and upgrading energy networks, and on ensuring clean and affordable energy for european industry and citizens. i stress the importance of electricity interconnections and the strengthening of internal lines to further integrate the internal electricity market. we need to facilitate cross-border flows of electricity across the union while ensuring the security of the system. the commission has already estimated that 25 member states exceeded their indicative 2015/2016 targets in 2015 for renewables. so we need to look at how we can stimulate investment in renewable energy. the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the electricity market in the light of the conclusions of the european council in copenhagen on 20 june 2014. in discussing the state of the energy union, we must also focus on the next steps. that is why the current energy package must be an opportunity to launch the transition of our industrial base. we will be able to use up to 177 billion euros in public and private investments in 2021. with the right policies in place, 900 000 jobs can be created in the european union. you can count, mr vice-president šefčovič, on our support, on the support of our political group, and we will strengthen the provisions of this very important energy package.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, colleague, you said, among other things, that 29% - the proposed 2030 percentage compared to 2012 - could be more ambitious in terms of renewable energy. on the one hand, you said that the report shows that we don't have enough resources to support renewable energy, and on the other hand, i want to ask you: do you think it's right that the cost of green certificates is borne by the population?
in writing. the role of the european parliament, in working closely with the commission, is essential for the implementation of the union's eenergy union strategy. i welcome this advance by the european union in energy on co2 targets compared to last year, it will move to the next stage and this year will be the year of implementation, both at national and local level. the new proposals on low-carbon mobility need to strengthen the eenergy union and this will be possible if it benefits from robust governance. governance should take into account, in equal measure, energy efficiency and security, electricity interconnections and the strengthening of internal lines, the integration of renewable energy and new technologies used for conventional energy production. progress towards diversifying energy sources, routes and suppliers is visible, but the eu still imports more than half of its energy needs. we need to reduce energy dependence through efficiency. through investment, energy efficiency will create innovation and jobs, but by focusing on sustainable energy production, clean and affordable energy can be ensured for industry and european citizens.
in writing. the european commission's top priority this year must focus on implementing what has already been adopted in the energy union strategy. the second priority must be how to balance competitiveness with co2 targets. de-locating co2 emissions is not a solution. i believe that the balance needs to be struck at the level of the emissions trading system (ets), which must become an effective tool to facilitate the transition to a competitive and low-carbon economy. negotiations on the ets legislative text will begin shortly. i would stress that the negotiating parties must take into account the situation of sectors exposed to the phenomenon of emission relocation and the limitation of business closures within the union, given the additional indirect costs generated by the ets scheme, which are not compensated as they should be. the new proposals on low-carbon mobility need to strengthen the energy union and this will be possible if it benefits from robust governance. governance should take into account, in equal measure, energy efficiency and security, electricity interconnections and the strengthening of internal lines, the integration of renewable energy and new technologies used for conventional energy production.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in south sudan (2016/2509 ((rsp)).
mr president, the drc and gabon are two countries facing a major political impasse and a deterioration in the security and human rights situation. i regret that it was not possible to adopt a joint report on the limitation of presidential terms of office at the last acp-eu plenary. our message must be clear: respect for the constitution and the law is non-negotiable. there is a common thread between the situations in the drc and gabon: these are two presidents who are clinging to power, either by violating the term limits or by fraud in elections. the eu should focus on supporting political dialogue between the government and the opposition, and focus on prevention by making greater use of the tool of political dialogue under the cotonou agreement. mr president, we are talking about the rule of law and we ask you to stand in solidarity with the citizens of bucharest who are demonstrating for the rule of law in your country today. thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote, which will take place on thursday 2 february 2017, will record seven motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of the statement by the following: ecr, alde, gue, s&d, efdd, greens/efa and epp. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on zero tolerance for female genital mutilation (2017/2524 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, the practice of genital mutilation is a serious form of violence against women and girls, an unacceptable violation of their right to bodily integrity. such practices should never be justified by religion, culture or tradition. commissioner, i welcome the commission's commitment to facilitating the exchange of experience and good practice on genital mutilation issues between member states. the use of eu funds to prevent these practices plays a vital role in protecting women and girls, identifying victims and taking action to combat them. the prevention of genital mutilation is an international human rights obligation for each member state and requires a firm approach and utmost vigilance to combat such practices.
in writing. female genital mutilation constitutes a violation of the fundamental right of girls and women to life, to safety, to dignity, to equality between women and men, to non-discrimination and to physical and emotional integrity. globally, it is estimated that between 100 million and 140 million girls and women have been subjected to some form of female genital mutilation, and if current trends continue, an additional 15 million girls aged 15 to 19 will be subjected to this cruelty by 2030. it is essential that the european executive and the eeas include the issue of female genital mutilation in the annual eu dialogues with civil society organisations in partner countries where the practice exists and continue to promote the provision of international protection to women at risk of female genital mutilation worldwide, in their relations with third countries and in international fora. close collaboration with the african union and the african group at the un is also needed to adopt new initiatives to strengthen the global fight against fgm and to support capacity building initiatives of public and civil society organisations.
in writing. according to the world health organization, about four million girls are subjected to female genital mutilation each year. this practice is part of local cultural rituals and customs in various communities or countries in africa and the middle east, but unfortunately it continues to exist even in places where it is prohibited by national legislation. more action is needed from the european commission. it must make development aid conditional on developing countries' efforts to eliminate this barbaric practice. today, i ask the commission to pay particular attention to cases occurring on the territory of the member states and to work closely with local and national authorities to firmly combat this practice. no girl living in the eu should be subjected to female genital mutilation.
in writing. the ecosystem-based and prudent approach to fisheries management increases the transparency of external fishing activities and makes it difficult to circumvent cfp rules, while limiting administrative burdens and increasing legal certainty. i agree that clear and comprehensive rules and viable databases are needed to achieve the objectives of the cfp as regards the authorisation and monitoring of eu vessels when fishing outside eu waters, as well as the conditions for authorisation of third country fishing vessels when fishing in union waters. european union vessels may fish in the waters of third countries either under the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements concluded by the eu with those third countries or as a result of obtaining direct fishing authorisations from those third countries. obviously, the authorisation of fishing vessels (with all the elements related to it) must be justified on the basis of a common set of eligibility criteria. in this regard, the eu and the member states must take appropriate measures to ensure the sustainable management and conservation of marine resources, in the context of food security and poverty eradication. cooperation is also essential for transforming the world we live in through the conservation and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources.
mr president, erasmus is undoubtedly one of the most successful programmes of the european union, helping millions of young people to experience what it is like to live in another member state, thereby reinforcing the idea of european cohesion. although the eu has little power in education, i take this opportunity to draw attention to the millions of people who are not participating in the erasmus programme. they are numerous and unfortunately face a serious competitive disadvantage in the education systems of some member states. the education systems of the member states should prepare our young people for the changing conditions of the labour market, for the changing world, but this is not the case in some countries. these countries are lagging behind by decades and the whole of the union is losing competitiveness as a result, so this is also a common issue. the member states' systems should be brought closer together than at present, otherwise this serious disparity between member states will persist.
mr president, commissioner, i support this report and will be happy to vote in favour of it. i've worked with and met a lot of young people who have gone through this project. erasmus+ is a step forward. although the visibility of the programme has increased, i personally think that it still needs to be improved and access to it needs to be simplified, above all. the absorption capacity exists in europe, but more funds are needed in view of the demands of young people, especially in the eastern countries. mr. chairman, please adjourn the meeting. i do not think that is the way to conduct a speech in the house.
mr president, we appreciate that there is a permanent rapporteur for erasmus, and the provision for mid-term evaluation, and i hope that the evaluation will be followed up by action. as other colleagues have also mentioned, there are still problems to be solved, and i think, commissioner, that it is a pity that good projects are rejected, as you yourself have confirmed.
mr president, i shall refer to the subject on the agenda, namely erasmus+, which is celebrating its 30th anniversary this year and, as my predecessors have said, has already helped millions of young people and education professionals. but by 2020, erasmus+ must support another two million students in higher education. 650 000 young people in vocational training, 500 000 volunteers and young people in exchange, 800 000 lecturers, teachers and trainers, but only 7% of young europeans are able to take advantage of this opportunity today. with 17 billion out of a total of one trillion euros, the european budget for 2014-2020 is too small to meet the objectives of such a programme. we therefore need to ensure that erasmus+ is properly funded and implemented in such a way that the participation rate is higher. there are many things that can be done by reducing co-financing, recognising volunteer hours as co-financing in projects, better framing of participants or sustainability of projects. i believe that together the european parliament and the commission can do more to make this programme more effective.
in writing. over 9 million direct participants and another million indirect beneficiaries - this is a satisfactory balance for the student mobility project launched in 1987. the 30th anniversary of the erasmus programme also coincides with the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of rome, which promotes ever closer union in europe. this platform for european and international mobility and cooperation has provided and continues to provide the opportunity for people from different backgrounds to come together, to acquire the skills needed to lead full and independent lives, to find their place in society and to develop a sense of european identity. unfortunately, there are still a number of barriers to access to the programme for low-income or rural students, for people with special needs and for people from disadvantaged backgrounds, which need to be removed by the joint efforts of all member states.
in writing. – article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union offers the european union new competences for sports, contributes to the promotion of sport issues and provides for eu actions aimed at developing the european dimension in sport. the report highlights the main issues in sports that still need to be addressed, such as the value of sport, fairness of sporting competitions, opportunities and jobs, tourism, traditional sports and games, training, mobility and zero tolerance for corruption in sports. this report states that erasmus+ continues to be the most effective tool in eu sports policy while calling for more funds to be allocated to sports under the programme. it is important for sports to provide a positive and sustainable legacy in sport events while also enhancing cohesion, tourism and local businesses in the organising cities and countries.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, as we are holding this debate, in romania, more than 300,000 people are protesting in the streets, in the cold, against an emergency ordinance passed last night by the romanian government, which makes essential changes to the criminal code, changes that decriminalize abuse of office. this ordinance will lead to the suspension of several ongoing investigations, will benefit many politicians accused of corruption, including the president of the parliament of romania. corrupt politicians want to affect the justice system, which has started to work in romania. it is the biggest blow to justice in romania since the fall of communism twenty-seven years ago. what is to be done? i ask all international partners to put pressure on the romanian government so that these amendments adopted last night do not enter into force within the deadline set for ten days. why is it important for europe to stand with the people of romania now? because the citizens of romania expect the european union to defend them in the fight against corrupt politicians. the support that the european union will enjoy in romania in the future depends directly on the support that europe will give these days to the romanian people.
mr president, i was preparing to speak about the cvm report - ten years for romania and, of course, on behalf of the citizens, i wanted to ask the commission, after ten years, to finally raise this report, given that there are no quantifiable criteria by which to compare the results in the administration of justice from one country to another in the european union. obviously, the events in romania force me to raise this issue, but i will raise it through what the professional associations of romanian judges say, namely that they have signaled that through the intervention of the country's president at the level of csat, the intelligence services have been given the go-ahead to intervene illegally in the criminal prosecution act, and i also want to quote from the statement of a csm judge: the untimely presence of the country's president at today's csm meeting represents an obvious and intolerable interference in the activity of justice. so i am glad that there will be a plenary debate tomorrow and i have asked for a debate in the libe committee and at home to see what the situation really is.
mr president, there are protests in romania this evening and at this very moment, and there has been violence among the security forces and among those present at the protest. firecrackers and stones were thrown at law enforcement officers in an attempt to provoke the authorities into causing casualties. that didn't happen, but i think it discredits those who contributed to these protests, having members in this room who support that. moreover, information has emerged that the national anti-corruption directorate, the main anti-corruption body, wants to open an investigation against the prime minister, members of the government, civil servants from the ministry of justice who participated in the drafting of the two normative acts. this is incomprehensible and unacceptable in a member state of the european union. i think disinformation is no more important than democracy in europe.
mr president, the romanian head of state recently told the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe that romania is a model country for the protection of national minorities, since he was elected head of state as a german minority. i do not think that the fact that the german minority of more than half a million has now dwindled to a few thousand, that the minority law promised before accession was sabotaged, that the use of the minorities' mother tongue, the use of their symbols, the restriction of education in their mother tongue, the re-nationalization of community property and real estate, which was recovered in fragments after 1989, and the autonomy promised in the gyula white january resolution of 1918 has since been denied, is of model value. in all cases, the assessment of the situation of minorities by the community itself or by its elected representatives can be a measure of the degree of their situation. the situation of national minorities living in a country is to be judged by the minorities themselves. in our case, he is not the first romanian state leader to declare several times before his election that he is of german descent but a romanian sentimentalist.
mr. president, there are moments in the life of a nation when its future is decided in the streets. this is happening now in romania, after the anti-corruption fight was blocked by the psd-alde government, an organized crime group that has taken over the country. that's what he called the greatest romanian writer today. tonight, half a million citizens are shouting their indignation in over 50 cities. their words are harsh: defiance, cowardice, the red plague. but hope is not dead. 'we want europe, not to be humiliated!' shouts the crowd. "the law is law for all, not made for thieves!" so the street speaks. it's a huge peaceful revolution. recently, irresponsible psd leaders mobilized the ultra-shy from the football galleries to discredit the protests in bucharest. i ask the european socialists to renounce their colleagues in romania and to demand the withdrawal of the ordinances of the psd-alde government. i call on the european commission to intervene, as it did in 2012, to protect the rule of law!
mr president, since the debate on the situation in romania is only a few hours away, i will speak this evening on another subject, equally important. i am referring here to the budget and economic measures for 2017 because i am sure that all political forces in romania are consistent in ensuring the economic stability of the country. i therefore want to assure all our partners that, in terms of the parameters set by the european commission, our 2017 budget fully meets all the objectives we have set ourselves. that's why we have funding in the budget for a number of important measures, such as increased health and education revenues, an increase in the minimum wage and pension point, doubling student scholarships and free rail transport. all these projects are designed to ensure a well-being of citizens in key areas in key projects and, above all, our desire to fit in the general european budget for 2017. we have come out of the logic of austerity and we are convinced that, by having and being consistent together all political forces, romania's economic stability can be maintained.
mr. president, the psd government led by liviu dragnea and sorin grindeanu has managed to throw romania into an immeasurable chaos by covertly amending the criminal and procedure code. thanks to the psd government, romania is today on the way to becoming an unpredictable, unfrequented country, a country where investors will have reserves to invest. in a highly complicated political context, when foreign policies are reset and new axes are created from europe to america, or from africa to asia, the psd government leaves romania out of the game, and, i could say, by its own will. i appreciate the need to issue an emergency order immediately to repeal what has been adopted in this area and to move the debate to parliament, where the decision should only be taken after consulting all the factors and institutions involved, as well as those with expertise in the field. last but not least, i publicly demand the resignation of the psd government as an absolutely necessary measure to give romania credibility.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, two nights ago, the socialist government of romania amended the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure by an emergency ordinance. the amendments to the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure were published in the official gazette at around 1 a.m. do you know what the headlines in the romanian press are? this government is called the government of thieves, the mafia installed in the government, the organized crime group, the government of bandits. of course, because they acted at night, unexpectedly, without notifying anyone, without being on the agenda and they changed the criminal and procedure code to get away from them, to get away, first of all, from the president of the socialist party of romania, mr. dragnea, who has a two-year sentence for electoral fraud and who is now facing another one, but got rid of the file because, by these ordinances - that was the emergency: emergency ordinances - dragnea, the president of the socialist party of romania, can no longer be tried in the second file for having abrogated this crime, it no longer exists. so change the abuse of office, the abuse of power that exists in all countries of this world, from which many politicians, many in the administration, many in the socialist party and alde who are together in government escape. you know that's the people in the street? a week ago there were a hundred thousand people in bucharest on sunday, just to prevent the adoption overnight, so that the bandits could then adopt these emergency ordinances. and last night, in bucharest, about two hundred thousand people were on the streets, and another two hundred thousand people, at least, throughout the country, almost half a million people took to the streets and will take to the streets every day. the only thing that parliament can and should do, and the commission, is to ask that, by 9 february, when the amendments to the criminal code come into force, it ask this government to revoke also by emergency ordinance that emergency ordinance which amended the criminal code. that's it, no more missions. what did you check in the mission? after what happened and when nothing can be turned back? now go on the mission tomorrow if you want! go to the people, be with the romanian people, with the romanian people and not with thieves! and i'll tell you something else: it was just announced yesterday that a new coup is coming on friday: they want to dissolve the national anti-corruption directorate, they want to be no longer investigated. so go to romania, but not after february 9th when the amendments to the criminal code come into force, if you are really honest and stand with romania and romanians! (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
blue-card question. – madam, as you surely know, last night the anti-corruption prosecutors were ordered to initiate penal investigations against the officials and civil servants who dared to draw up draft legislation perceived as a curtailment of their absolute power. is that not a perfect example of anti-corruption being abused?
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for the question, mr. pascu. that's exactly what needs to happen: thieves need to be investigated. in romania, thieves must be investigated and have been investigated, because that's why we entered the european union with the fight against corruption, with the red flag, which the socialists left behind. isn't it normal to question them? not to mention, all through that emergency ordinance, given at night, you don't amend the penal code at night, at midnight, unless you're a thief. by that ordinance, they amended the penal code to get away with what they were doing that night. they took out the criminal's favouritism, for example. which they did, because there are over 2,000 criminal records that are getting away with murder. criminals must be investigated, of course they are.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, no one can question the european vocation of the romanian people. as no one can question the political option expressed in december, which led to the government of a psd-alde government. in fact, today in bucharest, commissioner, we are witnessing, under the pretext of the administration of justice, an attempt to overthrow a legitimately elected political power. because this ordinance, commissioner, is made in accordance with the provisions of the constitution of romania, which obliges, when the constitutional court declares unconstitutional texts of law, they within 45 days to be brought into line with the law in question. in parenthesis, let us say, a justice minister in the previous government said that in romania human rights are a luxury. yes, mr. president, i am a luxury because this constitutional court has established that there are abuses of the right of defence, that there are interceptions without a warrant from the judge, that abuse of office is too broad an indictment, that the citizen's right to procedural guarantees is not respected. the romanian state is motivated to fight corruption and has proven it, but fighting corruption does not mean selective justice, abusive justice. justice must be equal for all and therefore i welcome the fact that we will have a very clear investigation of what is happening in romania and not an emotional manipulation. i understand, mr president, that romania is a credible partner and a credible member of the european union. i would not like, for the romanian people, to question this credibility today under a purely political pretext. including dna, the main institution that today claims to be the defender of corruption, was established by emergency ordinance. we cannot, mr president, in the name of a battle that is fair, that is legitimate, by dishonest means change a political power.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, you spoke about two ordinances: do you know the real situation in romania? you know there's two ordinances? do you know that the pardon order is sent to parliament in the form of a law? and the second question: if the president of your country incited the population by going to an unauthorized rally -- he is the mediator, not the inciter -- and refused to declassify some documents related to the joint sri and justice team's research, would you consider it to be judicial interference? because our legal experts, the professional associations, consider it interference in justice.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, i respect you very much and my question to you is whether you think you are informed and documented as necessary and correctly as to what is happening in romania or whether you have taken over, without a practical analysis, the explanations and arguments of the romanian colleagues in your delegation?
mr president, mr first vice-president of the european commission, beyond the tragicomic speech of my colleague, macovei, around the amendments to the criminal code adopted by the government, it is clear that the street in romania is trying to cancel the elections of december 11. in recent years, abuses, violations of the law, accentuation of the abusive and repressive character of the state have been accentuated. the commission remained silent on the strike of the magistrates, despite having information about this situation. he kept quiet when he learned of the secret protocols between the dna and the sri, even though he should have investigated. this is what the libe commission needs to do in romania and here in parliament. this deeply loyal country, romania, deserves to return to democracy, to the constitution and to the separation of powers in the state. at this dramatic moment for my country, my country would not accept, my nation would not accept that the street overthrows a government and the consequences would be incalculable; and i remind the european commission that in 2012, the commission's complicity or the voluptuousness with which it embraced basescu's theses led to the cancellation of the 2012 referendum. it would be tragic and unacceptable for this to happen again.
mr. president, for the discussion to be complete you should have had a criminal from romania here. and that is me. i was investigated while i was a senator and minister of culture. i've been under investigation for two years. every time i visited the prosecutor general's office, the press was informed, it was natural for the press to be informed, and of course, there was an attempt to destroy me publicly. after two years, the prosecutor who questioned me said: 'deacon, i have found no wrongdoing, but i am sending you to court.' i think he also smiled cynically, as a kind of personal victory, and he sent me to court asking for two and a half years in prison for me, with execution. i was acquitted, of course, after another two years. i don't want to talk about my years of torment and how much i lost and how i probably aged during that time. that's not the problem. the problem is that in romania it is indeed a huge problem, but not where you discuss it, where you see it, some of you, but in the fact that, for some time now, the popular vote is modified, stolen, thrown away simply by other than democratic methods. i won't go into details, there's no time. commissioner, with all due respect, i have all due respect for you, but i disagree with you on one point, and that is the admiration for paul celan. i think so too. the problem is different: let romania, in my opinion and in my request, find its own way, alone, it has all the institutions at hand, there is justice and it is functional, there is a constitutional court that will soon settle this difference of opinion. it's democracy in romania. the moment people go out into the streets and nothing happens and they can say their pass, there is justice in romania the moment this dispute is settled in court.
mr. president, 300,000 romanians took to the streets last night alone in bucharest and other cities in romania and europe to protest against criminal policy measures that offer some politicians a defense against justice. but first of all, we have to say that it is not a problem of romania and it should not affect the image of romania. hundreds of thousands of romanians peacefully protesting, sanctioning the government's self-serving criminal policy, shows that romanian society has taken it before some politicians. most romanians, president klaus iohannis, civil society, institutions in the judicial system are fighting with all legal and constitutional weapons to stop this abuse by the government. it's not the street trying to overthrow a legitimate government, but the politicians in government, the leaders of the ruling party, believe that if they win the election, the politicians get not the responsibility to govern according to the law, but the privilege to be above the law governing the country, questioning the functioning of the rule of law. the social democratic party around which this government is formed has campaigned aggressively for populist measures, social actions centered on promises of revenue increases without budgetary support and has not spoken a word about these changes to the criminal laws that have been at the center of this government's concerns since the beginning of the mandate. we call on the european commission and the european parliament to support the efforts of the romanian citizens, to support the efforts of the president of romania, the efforts of the institutions of the judicial system and to take all legal and possible steps to compel and convince the government of romania to withdraw and cancel these amendments to the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure as a matter of urgency. what is happening in romania is not a fight of romanians against romanians, it is a fight of romanian society with a part of the political leaders who do not understand that in a country of the european union the law cannot be changed according to their own will. (the speaker declined to answer a question put by mr doru-claudian frunzulică under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure), on the grounds that it is a ploy by the socialist colleagues to take as much of the floor as possible in order to defend a wrong project.)
mr. president, mr. commissioner, the constitutional court found that some provisions of the criminal code were unconstitutional. as a result, the psd-alde government issued an emergency ordinance to regulate this. the same was used previously by the cioloș government and the boc government. the government of president iohannis, the ciolos government, operated one hundred and fifty-one changes, made in secret without any public consultation. why, commissioner, did you not say at the time that romania had taken a step back? moreover, a number of changes made by the cioloș government have fundamentally violated human rights, for example, the prosecutor has been given the right to change the judge's decision, although justice is carried out by the judge. these constitutional changes have not been the subject of any public scandal, have not been sanctioned and have not been brought to the attention of the commission either, and now it is a disguised action to overthrow the legitimate government of romania and to disregard the vote of romanians on 11 december. mrs. macovei, you have attached an unfair and untrue label to romania. that is what you argued in the referendum and in the cvm. that's why the romanians don't vote for you and don't agree with your opinions. yes, be with us, those who will not violate the most democratic way of expression, the vote of the romanians!
mr. president, in romania the street is not asking for a change of government as mrs. dancila and mr. bostinaru have said, but for the repeal of the ordinances. such a decision is necessary, otherwise european funds will be lost. commissioner timmermans has made it very clear. but it's not just money that's at stake, it's the country's honor. it was even shown by a minister in the socialist government who had just resigned. "i cannot accept the imposture or the lie", said this minister from the romanian socialist party. i therefore call on the european socialists to reflect on this gesture, their solidarity with the corrupt who are self-amnesty is unacceptable. i suggest that they not forget that the romanians overthrew ceausescu in 1989 and i am convinced that they are capable of putting dragnea in his place, and his place is not at the head of the romanian parliament, it is elsewhere.
mr president, i am addressing myself first of all to my colleagues in the european parliament from the right-wing parties and i want to say to you once again that the romanians are clearly a european people by virtue of their culture, history and traditions, and that they have a european vocation. i want to ask them: why don't we lean more towards dialogue, towards cooperation, towards partnership? why do we always turn to international bodies, the so-called "high doors"? why don't we romanians try to cooperate more? because only together could we finally achieve a stronger romania, a more respected romania, a romania that plays a more important role in the european union. why is it that we always fail to cooperate and why is it that we always split into two or more camps? why is there a fracture in romanian society? why are we not demonstrating those european values that we always invoke? there is only one solution: collaboration between romanians for the progress of romania.
mr. president, the justice system in romania has not been working flawlessly in recent years. the rule of law has always been on shaky ground, and there are countless concrete examples. just think that right now, the country is in the middle of the biggest intelligence scandal since 1989, which is, in short, the internal affairs service seems to have directly influenced the work of the prosecutors and the courts, using the judiciary for political battles and reckoning. so the situation has not been as good as many people from abroad expected. we just need to think about the minority issue. but the amendments we've made are a decade behind schedule. the intention of the ruling parties is clear: to rescue the political and economic elite under investigation from the clutches of the judiciary. and the citizens are very aware of this, but two months after the elections, they are helpless, even those who voted for the left are very disappointed. romania is hot, angry people are on the streets, and that anger is understandable. and the solution is not a justice system that retaliates for these attacks and prosecutes more politicians, but a system that is fair, that respects the rule of law and serves the interests of society, not just certain groups. a system unlike any other in romania.
mr president, commissioner, what is happening in this house today is a serious misinformation. i'll tell you that you're misinformed. i'm sure you haven't read the amendments that have been made to the criminal code and the code of criminal procedure and the law that has been sent to parliament, the pardon law. because if you had read these documents and this legislation, you would have understood very clearly that there are some requests coming from the constitutional court of romania, as well as some requests coming from the president of the echr regarding the situation in the prisons in romania. so i will ask you, before we have a debate in the plenary and you rush to point the finger at romania, to do an analysis within the libe commission and also invite you to romania to talk to the state authorities, with all the institutions and to understand the real situation in romania. it is a pity that we are in the european parliament to misinform so seriously about the situation in romania. the situation in romania is serious, but it concerns rights, freedoms, democracy and respect for justice and the rights of the citizen when he is before the court. so i'm waiting for you in romania.
mr president, commissioner, beyond any statements made here today there is a reality that cannot be ignored: over 400,000 people took to the streets last night in over 50 cities across the country, and they need an answer, and there is only one answer, namely the repeal of the emergency ordinance which amended the criminal and procedure code at midnight and, if desired, the discussion of these in the romanian parliament, where it is due. otherwise, it will endanger both romania's european path, but also the everyday life of romanians, which we certainly do not want. romania has firmly committed itself to a european path and their massive presence demonstrates the need to maintain these commitments, beyond any other interests.
mr president, i would like to greet mr timmermans, first vice-president, and i would like to draw his attention to the following example: he is a member of the romanian parliament. his lordship is re-elected and his lordship employs the staff he had in the previous term to work with him further. i mean the assistants, i mean the counselors. well, his lordship must know that he is accused and found guilty of a conflict of interest because in the past he had a business relationship with his employees and this to me, personally, seems ridiculous and i would like to ask him what his lordship's opinion is on this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, in romania last night more than 400,000 people protested against this emergency ordinance adopted by the romanian government amending the criminal code. these amendments decriminalize abuse of office. this order will lead to the release of several convicted politicians and the halting of many ongoing investigations. it is the biggest blow to the judiciary in romania in the last twenty-seven years since the fall of communism. mr. vice president timmermans, have you asked why the government does such things? the answer is simple: because corrupt politicians, including the president of the romanian parliament, the social democrat liviu dragnea, will benefit from this ordinance. what is to be done now? i call on all international partners, including the european commission, to put pressure on the romanian government to ensure that these adopted amendments do not enter into force at the deadline set for ten days. it is important that europe stands with the citizens of romania in the fight against corrupt politicians. this is what the citizens of romania are waiting for in europe.
mr president, mr first vice-president, i want to start by saying how much i appreciate you and have always been impressed by your intelligence and diplomacy, but i must say that i am disappointed in you. if you link what is happening in romania with the granting of european funds, i can only think that now, when the 10 years of the cvm have ended, it was a special mechanism to discriminate against twenty million romanians. mr first vice-president, you spoke of sovereignty in your speech, but at the same time you are asking the government: either we have parliamentary-government sovereignty, which is the result of elections, or you impose it. then you said to let them do their job. let's let the government do its job, let the justice system work. i have always advocated for the conviction of thieves, but not for the human rights violation, correction which is now being attempted by this ordinance. thank you, and i'd like your timely response.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, you come from a european country. your country has important european values, and you are europeans because of your traditions, culture, history and values. so is georgia. they fulfilled all the benchmarks required in order to receive this, and they are also a european country, and we have to send them the message that they could become one day members of the european union. that’s why we have to implement, as soon as possible, this visa liberalisation for georgian citizens. don’t you agree that you and all the other meps, who come from european countries, have to support this – not to be against?
mr president, i very much welcome the visa—free regime for georgia. we are today in a highly volatile political context, we need our strategic partners more than ever, and we need to prove to them that they can rely on us. georgia has shown its strong commitments towards european values and integration, and it undertook reforms that were not easy. despite the visa-free delays, georgia’s citizens demonstrated once again in the recent parliamentary elections what they stand for, and it is high time to give them tangible signals – in fact, nothing more than what we promised, and what they have been waiting for for too long. according to the european commission report, georgia was already meeting the visa liberalisation action plan requirements in december 2015 and it is a pity that our georgian partners had to wait until now to reach this important objective. finally, considering that all necessary elements are in place, i hope also that the visa liberalisation process for ukraine will be completed with no further delay.
mr president, that the eu countries recently exercised caution in their visa liberalisation policy after an uncontrolled influx of more than a million refugees and migrants can be easily understandable. however, considering the hard geo-political choices georgia has made about the country’s future and the far-reaching and difficult reforms it has implemented in the justice and home affairs area, it is time for the eu to show that once its benchmarks are fulfilled, it can also deliver on its promises. i agree with the rapporteur that the visa waiver for georgian citizens should prove an important tool for enhancing economic and cultural relations, and provide a stable framework for a dialogue on fundamental rights. ultimately, in difficult political weather, it could also be one small step for europe in securing democratic development in its turbulent neighbourhood.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the main objective is to promote the rights of the child and that is also the subject of my question. don't you think the adoption process is very long? i therefore believe that there is a need for closer cooperation between national authorities to implement this important report.
mr president, the subject of adoption has become an increasingly important one with the increase in the mobility of people. the report comes up with a solution by proposing the development of common minimum standards for adoptions. although they are considered to be rather guidelines of good practice, all parties recognise that any adoption decision must be made solely in the best interests of the child and analysed in the light of individual characteristics. the report states that, at european level, biological parents should be given the right to have recourse to all legal remedies before adoption proceedings are commenced. this could make some problems between member states or even with third countries more transparent and ensure measures to protect children. in these circumstances, cases such as the barbu family in the uk or the bugnariu family in a third country such as norway will be treated with greater clarity, all the more so as the report indicates the need for the competent consular authorities to be kept informed of any proposed adoption decision in relation to a child who is a national of another member state, but most importantly that the rights of children will be protected.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, giving priority to the interests of the child may be found in international law and in member states’ law, and to that end it is necessary to consider two things: that these interests be properly translated into the procedural rules, because they should not be unnecessarily bureaucratic and lengthy; and also how they are applied. that is why i am in favour of doing much more in conjunction with the member states, for instance in the field of training of judges and professionals. the commission will consider adding this as a new topic amongst other topics: where we train judges on victims’ rights, procedural safeguards for children, brussels iia, etc., this could also be covered. so this is my commitment to you from today’s discussion. on the new legislation: family law is the domain of the member states. we must be very careful here because these are emotional and sensitive topics; unanimity is required for a very good reason. so we will consider this call for legislation, but, as i said before, it must be evidence-based, there must be a test of whether this is a severe pan-european problem; whether there is strong demand from the member states that we have a european solution; and the third important thing is whether the european union has any legal competence to regulate on this.
in writing. investing in children is an investment in the future of our society, and raising and educating them in decent and safe conditions must be a constant concern for everyone, no matter where they are. in this context, we are talking about cross-border adoptions and the best interests of the child in such situations. child protection is a priority in all situations and in the case of cross-border adoptions there are a number of factors that need to be taken into account to ensure that the best interests of children are protected. i support the importance of developing common minimum standards for adoption, but also the need for better civil justice cooperation in the field of adoption. since there is no binding framework at european level for the recognition of adoption decisions following a national procedure, legislative action is necessary to ensure that the right of european citizens to family life and to freedom of movement is respected at all times. the commission and the council must identify mechanisms to guarantee the protection of the interests of children, european citizens, even when they live outside the european union. it is extremely important that in such situations children have the opportunity to stay in touch with their cultural background, to learn and to use their mother tongue.
in writing. i would like to emphasise that the area of family law at national level, and therefore adoption, is a matter for the member states. however, when people decide to move to another member state of the union, difficulties arise in relation to the recognition and legal settlement of their legal status. however, i do not see why we need to create new legislation, to impose new rules, instead of using the levers we already have, to counter-interest member states to reach a uniform approach to adoption. on the one hand, the training of national officials and judges involved in adoptions, the exchange of experience and the improvement of cooperation between them should be supported. on the other hand, member states should be encouraged to avoid unnecessary red tape in the field of adoption. let's not forget that what should come first is the best interest of the child. in each of our countries there are enough abandoned children. it is important that each member state facilitates national procedures so that these children can fully enjoy all their rights, and above all the right to have a family.
in writing. every child in the world has the right to a family and an environment in which to be loved and to receive the education necessary for adult life. i therefore believe that the european institutions have a moral responsibility to protect the rights of every family and i am pleased that parliament is the first to propose a set of measures for those who have adopted children and want to enjoy the freedom to settle in a country other than their own. in the context of the ever-increasing number of international couples and families, community legislation must adapt to the new realities and give every family in europe the guarantee that its rights will be recognised and respected by the authorities in all member states. it is also regrettable that the european executive has not yet responded to the 2011 call of the ep to take measures to regulate cross-border adoption issues. this is not just about defending principles, but also about protecting the rights of all parents and children in the european union, wherever they are, in concrete situations.
mr president, more generally, i do not think it is serious to decide on monday evening to change the title of a debate and propose that a text be adopted within 48 hours. it is not serious, we work on our resolutions and reports for weeks, even months. this is improvisation.
madam president, providing enough quality food for a global population that is estimated to reach nearly 10 billion by 2050 will be a significant challenge. already demand is putting major pressure on limited natural resources, and competition for arable land is stimulating deforestation. climate forecasts show that arable land will also be threatened by other phenomena, such as changes in rainfall or the more pronounced impact of pests associated with higher temperatures. in this context, we urgently need solutions, we need more detailed research on low-risk pesticides and better procedures for their approval to be placed on the market. current procedures are too slow, forcing farmers to resort to conventional pesticides with all the implicit risks to health and the environment. alternative solutions, including plant protection products of biological origin and other biological control methods, could also support organic farmers and low-impact agriculture in general. many organic producers still have great difficulties in accessing european funds due to still complicated procedures. the accessibility of low-risk pesticides would be an indirect support measure that would benefit both them and consumers.
blue-card question. – what kind of measures do you think we would have to implement to help farmers to switch from conventional pesticides to biological ones?
mr president, i would first like to congratulate my colleagues bogdan wenta and norbert neuser on the excellent work they have done on this matter. i'm going to focus on two things. having drafted a report on development effectiveness not so long ago, i am glad that my amendments on this subject have been included in the wenta/neuser report. it is very important that development effectiveness is one of the driving forces of our new development policy. we need clear references to this in the new consensus, including, i think, in the part on principles. secondly, i am also pleased that the report recognises the importance of policy coherence for development, the cpd. the cpd is a central element in the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals. i believe that the european union needs to clearly define the link between the cpd and the csdp in order to promote this concept internationally. the cpd must become the hallmark of our external action.
mr president, i also want to thank my fellow rapporteurs on the objectives and the review of the 2030 agenda. our colleague norbert was talking about priorities: fighting poverty and respecting human dignity. i welcome these provisions for a new global development framework on food security. european development policies can address many of the problems facing humanity: poverty, unhealthy living conditions, the demographic index. but it's not enough to have policies, it's important to have consistency. there are still huge gaps between states, and in many of them there is no money for drugs for the chronically ill, vaccines for children, conditions in hospitals. there are still remote areas without food, without water, without electricity, without access to education. commissioner, what does the commission propose to do to reduce these gaps? there is a lot of pressure from the economic giants on smes. can you tell us, commissioner, what can be done to make life better in the world and in europe?
blue-card question. – you have mentioned some issues on which you disagree, and i have said that i agree with what you had expressed previously. however, do you not think that the commission ought to be more ambitious and more in line with the goal of 1.5 degrees, set in paris? this would be good for all of humanity, for all of mankind. as we speak now, there are islands that are disappearing – sinking. the water is going to cover them largely because of inaction.
madam president, commissioner, directive 2003/87/ec established a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading in the union to promote reductions in carbon dioxide emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner. the current review must also take into account the sustainable strengthening of the union industry in terms of the risk of carbon dioxide emissions, investments and jobs being relocated. i would therefore stress that the objective of the directive is to achieve a level of emission reduction such that there is no relocation of carbon dioxide emissions and of investments and jobs. i would add here that we must not artificially increase the price of energy for european consumers, whether they are citizens or manufacturing industry. security of energy supply, alongside the fight against climate change, is a top policy objective for both europe and the member states. the review of the ets should strike a balance between emission reductions, the real economic situation of the member states, the need for development of industry, including the energy sector, and the specificities of the different member states. we need a predictable, effective and stable regulatory framework to stimulate investment in low-carbon technologies without harming the competitiveness of ets sectors and the achievement of the paris targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would first like to thank all the meps who spoke in this debate, raising issues that are important not only for european climate policy broadly but also for our citizens and businesses. forging agreements on the different aspects of the european union’s emissions trading system (ets) ambition has been a very challenging task. i therefore reiterate my gratitude to ian duncan and fredrick federley, as well as to the chairs of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, jerzy buzek, and adina-ioana vălean, for all the efforts they made to deliver this excellent and ambitious report. but all the work done may become meaningless if, on wednesday, parliament is unable to give ample support to this report. we need a very strong position from parliament in order to start inter-institutional negotiations with the council. i am confident that, in view of all the challenges facing us in climate policy, there will be in this house the same degree of responsibility and spirit of compromise that we found in paris in december 2015. that is what european citizens expect from all of us.
in writing. making the cost of reducing emissions more profitable by increasing investment is the aim of the amendment. it is important to strike a balance between the proposed emission targets and investment opportunities so as not to jeopardise jobs. member states have security of electricity supply on their agenda. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary. i consider it necessary to simplify the governance of the modernisation fund which should be primarily controlled by the beneficiary member states in accordance with the itre opinion. accelerated decommissioning of certificates can affect energy security in the eu. the aim of amending the directive is to reduce emissions, not to set a higher price for emissions. let us not forget the products of other continents, which are much more polluting than europe, and the fact that we can deindustrialize europe even more.
in writing. the commission's new proposal on the eu ets is necessary as this reform needs to provide some certainty to the industry and investors in eastern europe by setting the rules for the period after 2021. it is also an opportunity to increase energy efficiency and support climate action. we do not want the european economy to face a relocation of energy-intensive industries to third countries. the allocation of green certificates free of charge is essential for industries on the carbon leakage risk list. flexibility in the number of free allowances compared to the auctioned allowances is very important for the long-term sustainability of the eu ets. the commission should take into account, in the use of the innovation fund, industries that are making efforts to invest in new technologies in order to find innovative ways for the future. the modernisation fund is welcome and it should be possible for it to be regulated by the beneficiary member state and taking into account national circumstances. aviation, road transport, agricultural waste and buildings should continue to be non-ets sectors. member states should have the necessary framework to set their own national climate targets, taking into account the specific energy production conditions of each member state.
madam president, the report also makes it clear that women in no country have been fully guaranteed access to the means of economic independence, equal social representation or control over all decisions affecting their lives. i would add that the results achieved so far are in many cases reversible. and that's why, in the current world political situation, when even the first man of the so-called democratic world so often speaks publicly and vocally disparagingly about the fairer half of our society, it's especially important to be aware of these obstacles. women, like other minorities or underrepresented groups, deserve equality, fair treatment. and ensuring fair treatment requires concrete action. the union should promote the abolition of discriminatory laws against women in un member states. by taking a firm stand, we could contribute to the development of the rule of law not only within the european union but also in countries outside it.
in writing. the european union's objective of reducing poverty at european level is closely linked to a greater participation of women in the labour market. driving development at union level cannot happen without a more active participation of women, who are important economic agents at global level. countries that harness and empower women to participate fully in the labour market and decision-making processes are more stable, prosperous and secure. i believe that joint efforts by the union and the member states are needed to encourage and support women's organisations at all levels in their professional activities, involving them as partners in the policy-making process, with adequate funding. it is necessary to eliminate the gender pay gaps that then feed into pension gaps, to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and gender stereotypes that perpetuate inequality, violence and discrimination in all spheres of society.
in writing. i support the initiation of a legislative proposal to establish a european legal protection programme for whistleblowers, to impose a series of measures to simplify the process of exposing the misuse of eu money. this involves the creation of an advisory body with offices in the member states, as well as the creation of a website where complaints can be lodged. until an independent european body is established, the european anti-fraud office (olaf) will have to publish an annual report on the evaluation of the protection of whistleblowers in the european union.
madam president, as you know, the social and political situation in romania is tense because of controversial legislative acts that the government wanted to adopt with a suspicious haste and the street demonstrations generated by this situation. unfortunately, the legitimate discontent of the citizens was politically hijacked. after the repeal of that ordinance, the street demonstrations continue exactly in the sense explicitly indicated by the president of romania. i would like to stress that according to the constitution of romania, the president must be a mediator. with only two months to go until free and fair parliamentary elections, prolonging demonstrations beyond their original goal is a risk to democracy. basically, the precedent has been set that any active and vocal minority on the street can block not just one measure of an institution but the entire institution. it went from incriminating an act to incriminating a political choice. it is worrying that the demonstrations in bucharest are widely presented on many european media channels as an example that romania gives to european countries. what is not captured in the western media is the hate speech in the street, beyond the politically correct content of the banners written in english, the chants of the democrats incite to physical violence against individuals or the supporter of a political platform.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, biodiversity, the result of billions of years of evolution increasingly shaped not by natural processes but by human actions, is the subject of many debates and conferences, legislation, speeches and written works. there are many arguments for the effects of anthropogenic activities on natural systems, i.e. the slow degradation of ecological systems that are threatened with extinction, economic, ethical, scientific, aesthetic motivations, approaches and possible solutions, combating droughts and floods, protecting species, recycling, stabilizing the climate, etc. however, one of the concepts of biodiversity relates to the ethnocultural diversity of socioeconomic systems, which is currently facing increasing pressure from the impact of human action, making them function increasingly inefficiently, the main causes being the inability of the population to appreciate the long-term consequences of human activities, the inability of markets to recognize the value of human capital, decision-makers to use the skills of human capital and others, the effects being visible in the physical and virtual worlds but with profound consequences for the existence of the material world and the well-being of people.
madam president, respect for human dignity is a fundamental principle of democratic states of law that must not be ignored. this command is all the more important when we think of the elderly, especially those who need care. specialised ngos across europe help with home care for the elderly. their activities receive predictable, planned state aid. we have witnessed an incomprehensible and arbitrary decision in romania recently, where the ministry of labour has, without explanation or prior notice, cut in half the funding to ngos providing social services. more than 6,000 people are at risk of losing their social security benefits as their support for the organizations that provide care has been cut. it's like a time machine has turned, and it's taken our country back 27 years. the government must immediately correct this grave error.
madam president, halfway through my mandate as an mep, i am pleased to convey a new message to all those in transylvania and banat who have put their trust in me. i hope i've shown how proud i am to be one of the romanians who represent this beautiful area. i have spoken many times in the european parliament to talk about romania and our region, i have supported the development of a form of representation of local interests in the european capital, i have contributed to numerous promotional actions, including the largest romanian festival in belgium. all these initiatives have focused on the importance of our area and, in particular, my heartland, alba county. but the most important thing for me was to bring our fighting spirit here to the european parliament, to fight for our interests and to demand equal treatment for all european citizens. in the future, i will organize a series of conferences and exhibitions at the european parliament to promote romania, i will seek to make the centenary of the union an opportunity to raise the profile of our country and the municipality of alba iulia at european level and, above all, i will ensure that european money, funds from pilot projects reach beneficiaries in transylvania and banat.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we are holding this morning a fundamental debate about the future of the european union. an essential component in this debate is the strengthening of the economic and monetary union. the first step that we have to take in this process is respect existing rules: respect the stability and growth pact, respect the two-pack, and respect the six-pack. these are rules which we have decided on together in this house and now is the time to defend these rules, to implement them and not to question them. president juncker rightly outlined at the beginning of his term in office the flexibility existing in the stability and growth pact. it is on this basis that we have to apply it. the second step which we have to take to strengthen the euro is use the limited financial resources which we have available to strengthen our economies, not just manage a crisis once it has occurred but help the countries to reform, to strengthen their economies, to become more competitive even before a crisis occurs. we should of course do this without increasing the burden on the taxpayer in the european union, not by a single cent. this is why we need a fiscal capacity which is precise in scope and very effective in its implementation. if, as the report put forward by my colleagues ms berès and mr böge proposes, a finance minister is created, then the first and primary task of this finance minister will be to apply rules in a transparent, automatic and predictable way in regard to all member states. the report also proposes in the long term the creation of a european monetary fund which is a worthwhile endeavour and in this process, of course, conditionality is important and also the political independence of this european monetary fund. if a fiscal capacity is to be created, it should also give states from outside of the european union the possibility to join it in terms of benefits, in terms of contributions and in terms of governance. and to conclude, some of the steps which are put forward in these reports can be implemented in the short term, some require treaty change and, as vice-president timmermans indicated, this is a longer term process. today we are, of course, at the beginning of this longer term process of stabilising and strengthening the euro, developing it in the right direction.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, ok, i understand what you mean, but do you not think that we should have to address the commission and the council, and together with parliament, implement a strategic plan to regain the confidence of european union citizens in this important pan-european organisation? think what would happen without the european union in europe! do you not think that it might be time to increase the importance and efficiency of the european union institutions and decrease bureaucracy; to set up important tools in order to develop this organisation – such as security and defence and other means – in order to make the european union stronger as it plays the role on the international arena it has to play.
mr president, in the current political and economic situation it is clear that the european union must take measures to improve the work of the european institutions and bring the union to the economic level that citizens want. i fully agree that changes are needed which are based on the current treaty provisions that can be made in this respect: a single council, qualified majority voting in the council (that is the problem and not in the european parliament), the minister for finance, all the rest. i think there are things that can improve our work, but europe needs to be changed for the better, for more cohesion, for more solidarity, and that is why i think that having a budget for the euro area that is not clearly defined, as sources and as uses, is not the time to talk about it now. if we clear it up, no problem at all. if crisis mitigation instruments are in place, member states outside the euro area must also participate. i also do not think it is the time to discuss two types of voting in the european parliament: one for meps from the euro area and one for those from outside the euro area.
mr president, a united europe was the wish of world leaders after the second world war, and here we are, decades later, 60 years later, facing a divided europe, a europe in crisis. to get out of the crisis, you have to be careful how you treat citizens, all european citizens, not just some, there must be no more citizens of different categories. we are all european citizens, there must no longer be two, three or four europe, euro/non-euro, schengen/non-schengen. i hope these three reports are not just for the white paper you are preparing for the summit, commissioner. i very much appreciated the comments of my colleagues and, in particular, mr brok. all the instruments, all the mechanisms that we are introducing must not affect the states and citizens of the non-euro area, we must not fuel the citizens' distrust of the european union. you have to solve the schengen zone, you can't send countries out of the space, as is the case with my country, romania, although, technically, it is ready, only because one country, the netherlands, opposes it. it's very important to communicate what we do, the decisions we make to increase the trust of the citizens. you make the same mistakes as governments that do not communicate good decisions well and i can not vote mr verhofstadt's article 59
in writing. the debate on the future of europe is very important. we need an open dialogue about what we want the european union to look like, we need to rediscover our identity, we need to think about the future of the young generation of europeans. but this debate must be broad, involving all european actors, civil society, trade unions, employers, but above all european citizens. the real solutions come from them. the real solutions can come from young people, because their optimism and confidence in the european project can generate the real ideas for the future of europe. i am sure that what the young people of my generation will tell you is that they do not want a two-speed europe, they do not want a fractured europe, they want citizens everywhere in europe to live in decent conditions, they want a more transparent, more accessible and more human europe. this means that the first step is to open the door to a real debate and that the report proposal we are discussing here cannot reflect the true ambitions of all european citizens. let the debate begin and, above all, it is time to learn to listen to each other, so that we can build the europe of tomorrow, which we all want, stronger and more united than ever!
in writing. the european union is at a crossroads. brexit, rising nationalist tendencies, the wave of migration, terrorist threats are just some of the major challenges facing the union. it is precisely at these times that a united and solidarity-based approach to solving problems is needed. it is unacceptable that we start to make scenarios of differentiated developments between the euro area and non-euro area, between east and west. only united can europe remain strong. the european construction was designed primarily to ensure peace on the continent, and therefore the maintenance of this political and economic structure is crucial. but the eu must be closer to its citizens, and it is therefore our duty, each one of us, to explain to europeans the benefits of belonging and the risks that would arise from the isolation of the member states. the union can no longer be the scapegoat for everything that is not working well in the member states, but must instead be an entity that can govern effectively and solve problems that cannot be solved at national level.
in writing. – after 60 years since the signature of the treaty of rome, after many remarkable accomplishments often achieved in times of economic and political difficulty, but also after a recent history of strong adversities, including the first decision of a member state electorate to leave the eu – the time is indeed ripe to clarify what our union is, what purposes it serves and how it should use its tools to better serve those purposes. avoiding the traps of easy solutions professed by radicals on right and left, and building on the strength of our open economy and multi-level democracy, we must fix what is not working, and push forward for stronger and bolder policies and swifter decision-making processes. the union is the best vehicle our continent has devised in order to be able to shape our economic, social and environmental, and security situation in the world, but it is not perfect: it can and it should be improved.
in writing. three reports on the future of the european union were tabled in the european parliament debate today. unfortunately, none of these reports will receive my vote at the meeting on 16 february 2017. the reason is simple: i will never vote for a report in the european parliament that introduces differences between member states in terms of equal voting rights or the constitution of a new euro area parliament, which would function within the european parliament. the european elites have rightly adopted the slogan 'united we win, divided we lose' but in practice the three reports propose solutions that divide the european union.
in writing. i believe that the geopolitical implications of possible decisions must be taken into account in discussions on the future of the european union. a two-speed europe, yes, might save the eu for now, but in the long run it would throw the eastern europeans into the arms of russia. that is why i am calling on western europe not to abandon eastern europe once again. for 27 years, we, romanians, and the other peoples of the former soviet camp have been making intense efforts for european integration. this process risks being compromised by the eventual division of europe into first-class and lower-class states. unfortunately, mr verhofstadt's report includes this delimitation on the basis of euro-area membership, alongside many welcome proposals. even more serious, i think, are the recent proposals by the walloon prime minister, paul magnette, to throw the new member states overboard. cynicism cannot save a europe that abdicates its own values.
mr. president, we've worked with integrity whistleblowers, whistleblowers, from the european institutions and they've been very helpful. these people want the institutions in which they work to be law-abiding, and if they're not, then they look outside for people they can trust and give them information and documents, and they do it in a very discreet and confidential way precisely because they're not protected by the law. the commission has been invited by this parliament since 2013 to come up with a legislative proposal for the effective protection of these whistleblowers, both private and public. we haven't seen any proposals yet, so we don't have a minimum level of protection for these people. wikileaks, luxleaks, the panama papers, all because of the courage of people who came forward with inside information and exposed corruption, fraud and crime. these people should not be harassed, as is happening now in luxembourg, but on the contrary, they should be protected. do we want to protect european money, european funds, from theft or not? we have to decide, because if we want to, we have to protect the people who come with information from inside the european institutions.
mr president, the s&d group is concerned not only at the latest violations of the ceasefire and the dramatic humanitarian situation in avdiivka and other towns, but also more generally at the continuous breaching of the minsk agreements. we think that only the full implementation of the minsk agreements can settle this conflict. we had minsk 1, minsk 2 and all the attempts under the normandy format, with the support of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, yet, after years and thousands of casualties, we are still seeing regular violations of the ceasefire and very little progress. we urge both sides – ukraine and the so-called separatists – immediately and once and for all, to respect the ceasefire. at the same time, we are obliged once again to condemn russia’s backing of the separatists and its direct involvement. we hope russia will finally show a sense of responsibility and exercise its influence over the separatists to make them respect the minsk agreement. we call for the humanitarian crisis in the contact area to be addressed, for heavy weapons to be withdrawn immediately and for all prisoners to be handed over. ukraine must regain full control over its territory and its borders, and the osce monitors must be allowed throughout the territory. this will permit decentralisation finally to take place, as well as the official elections in eastern ukraine that were provided for by the minsk agreement.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, once again i am stepping in on behalf of vice-president/high representative mogherini since she was indisposed and could not be here today. thank you for focusing your attention once again on the situation in the west bank and particularly on settlements. the international context may be evolving, but the european union’s position is not bound to change. we still believe that the only possible solution is the two-state solution, and we still believe that the current settlement policy, including the regularisation law, threatens the viability of the two states. you heard it directly from the high representative last november and then again during the debate in the committee on foreign affairs with eu special representative fernando gentilini and the french special envoy pierre vimont. we still believe in what the middle east quartet wrote last summer, that the two-state solution is in great danger, and urgent action is needed to stop and reverse the current trends. the quartet identified three major threats against the viability of the two states. first, continued settlement expansion, demolitions and the denial of palestinian development. second, violence and incitement to violence which inflict terrible suffering and deepen the mistrust between the communities, and third, the dire situation in gaza, the continued militant activity and the lack of palestinian unity. it is very clear that the situation is not improving and on some issues it is deteriorating. last november the high representative said in this hemicycle that the regularisation bill, if approved, would contradict very openly the quartet’s recommendations. consistent with this position, at the beginning of february we condemned the new israeli settlement announcements and the adoption of the regularisation law by the knesset. with this new law, the israeli parliament has legislated on the legal status of land within the occupied palestinian territory, which is an issue that remains beyond its jurisdiction. should it be implemented, the law would further entrench a one-state reality, a reality of unequal rights, perpetual occupation and conflict. for these reasons, the high representative has called on israel to refrain from implementing the law. on 8 february the high representative discussed the situation in a phone call with palestinian president mahmoud abbas. she told him that the european union will continue to work with the two parties, but also with international and regional partners, on the two-state solution. this is the only way to end the conflict and move the peace process forward. in fact, as we face such a difficult situation on the ground, it is essential to preserve international unity both on the fundamental coordinates of the two-state solution and on the way to get there. international unity has led the quartet’s report. international unity has led the un security council resolution 2334 last december, which condemned the israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territory and reaffirmed that the 1967 lines can only be modified through an agreement between the parties. resolution 2334 also condemned all acts of incitement, violence and terror and called on both sides to take steps to advance the two-state solution on the ground in line with the recommendations of the quartet report. such consensus was confirmed at the middle east peace conference in paris on 15 january and the need for international unity was also central to the discussion in the last two foreign affairs councils. just days ago, high representative mogherini headed to the united states for a first round of meetings with the new administration. she met among others with secretary of state rex tillerson, national security adviser michael flynn, and the president’s senior adviser jared kushner. with all of them the high representative stressed that the quartet report must continue to be the bedrock of international action concerning the israeli-palestinian issue. she also stressed very clearly, in line with the messages conveyed also by leaders from the region, that any move of the us embassy to jerusalem could have a very negative and destabilising impact in the entire middle east at a time when the region needs all the stability it can get. she confirmed that the european union stands by the international consensus on jerusalem embodied in united nations security council resolution 478 of 1980. it is clear that the new us administration is still in the process of defining its foreign policy. we have a duty then to engage with them on the basis of our values and our interests, working to preserve international unity and to avoid any inflammatory moves. the situation in the region is incredibly delicate and fragile. a peaceful solution to this conflict, or even progress in that direction, could set a whole new paradigm for cooperation in the region, including on security. so our regional partners can play a major role in promoting a solution. the arab peace initiatives provide key elements for a comprehensive settlement of the conflict, and we hope that we can develop even further the cooperation between the european union and the arab league, and between the quartet and the arab states. the current lack of a peace process is no excuse for not trying. there are things that both sides can do today independently of each other that would advance a peaceful two-state reality on the ground. so it is essential to say loud and clear that we do not give up. the european union and the world do not give up on peace between the israelis and the palestinians. we simply cannot afford for tensions to rise again.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would first like to say that our group supported the conservative proposal to have a more general title for our debate today. it was decided otherwise yesterday and i regret it. firstly, because we are taking a step backwards in the discussion we had in november on the west bank and the settlements. secondly, because i believe deep down that we are going the wrong way. the reasons are very simple. once again, we are embarking on this one-way street which leads us to focus on only one aspect of the israeli-palestinian conflict, namely settlement, when we know very well that it is a complex conflict with multiple facets that cannot be reduced to one aspect. equally relevant are issues such as security, borders, jerusalem and refugees, etc.; but we don't say a word. we are going down a double wrong road, because it will only lead to alienating israel, which is still one of our important partners and, it must be stressed again, the only democracy in the region. and we will be less likely to be a credible actor in finding solutions to this conflict that has lasted far too long. we must look closely at how the quartet report is being implemented in all the recommendations and do everything possible to ensure that direct negotiations resume. i must say that i regret that the high representative is not here, but our committee on foreign affairs has been to israel, palestine and jordan and during these three days of visit no one has mentioned the high representative by name. it's unfortunate, but it's a fact of life. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. i think we have to dispel the illusion that if we are 100% pro-palestinian, we will solve something. our position is perceived as biased throughout this region, and that is why our role is minor. as i have just said with great regret, the weight of europe is not felt in this region, neither in jerusalem, ramallah nor amman. this is a reality which we, the delegation from the committee on foreign affairs, have seen. we regret this, but i think we must be more subtle and abandon the illusion that if we are 100%, sometimes 200% pro-palestinian, we will solve something.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i have the feeling that the situation on the ground has worsened, that both parties are dealing with their own internal politics and that the peace process is not a priority for anyone. the current lack of a peace process is not an excuse for not trying, as you rightly indicated, mr president-in-office. there are things that both sides can do today, independently of one another, that would advance the peaceful two-state reality on the ground. there is no doubt that we need to communicate with israel and palestine. we have to influence the processes and ensure that the middle east process remains credible for the sake of the whole region. we need to be firm, critical when needed, and, most of all, constructive. so it is essential to say, loud and clear, today that the european union and the world will not give up on the peace process between the israelis and palestinians. we simply cannot afford for tensions to rise again. the two-state solution, with the state of israel and the state of palestine living side by side in peace and security, and mutual recognition of the 1967 borders with the mutually agreed land swaps and jerusalem as a capital of both states, remains the only hope for peace and the cornerstone of our political position and action. this is our priority. on settlement construction, this is a clear violation of international law. the s&d group opposes and condemns the adoption of the law which retroactively legalises some 4 000 settler homes built on privately owned palestinian land in the occupied west bank. this law goes against the vision of a just and lasting peace and against the values of our partnership with israel. this detrimental decision follows israel’s announcement last week that it plans to build new settlements in the west bank despite the un security council resolution 2334 in december condemning israeli construction. please allow me, on behalf of the s&d group, to call on the high representative to convene as soon as possible an urgent meeting of the quartet in order to decide on the steps to be taken.
president-in-office of the council, acting on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i think it was interesting to attend this debate and i thank the honourable members for their contribution. i think that in the speech i read on behalf of the high representative too which was quite clear, there was most of that discussion by you addressed there and indeed the interventions were a reaction to that. however, i would also like to make a point about the association council between the european union and israel, and yes, as the high representative said, after the foreign affairs council in february, preparations for this association council will now begin. the content and scope will be discussed by the member states and decided, unanimously, between the 28 member states. it gives us the opportunity to listen and discuss together and even, if god wills, find a common position in this respect. while remaining committed to 'negotiating' with both sides. and to conclude, although the positions are divergent and even the way you look at it all, i still believe that there is broad support in this house for the two-state solution and the peace process. and so i think that, if anything, it is a positive fact that the european union is united behind this one goal. also, united on the fact that, yes, the expansion of the settlements is illegal and violates international law. and so we must now build on these positions in order, also, to increase international unity so that, god willing, there is a final peaceful solution between the two states, as we were discussing during this debate. and if anything, i also appeal to you, as parliamentarians, to do what is possible, with your contribution, especially with your counterparts in the knesset so that there is also, possibly, a change of direction, not least with regard to the settlements policy.
in writing. – the title of this debate was changed from ‘prospects for resuming peace talks in the middle east’ into ‘situation in the west bank, in particular settlements’, drawing us backwards to the debate we held in november last year even though the conflict is not exclusively about that, but also covers other issues such as security, borders, jerusalem, water and refugees. in the case of the israeli-palestinian conflict we are facing a complex situation which cannot face only one-issue affair, such as the settlements. therefore, if we want, in our capacity of the european parliament, to facilitate peace talks between israelis and palestinians, we should try and find a constructive and balanced approach that would benefit the two sides alike. the european union shall focus its resources, in due diligence, on initiatives and projects that could play a constructive role in creating a positive atmosphere in which israel and the palestinians could increase their bilateral cooperation and dialogue, while averting any projects which might alienate one of the sides and push cooperation and peace further away. all these projects should be done in line with existing agreements, and in coordination with both sides.
in writing. – instead of the envisaged debate on peace dialogue perspectives in the middle east, we end up debating only one aspect related with the tensions and conflicts in region, and that is the settlements issue. the approach chosen by the ep, to act in a partisan manner, the continuous criticism towards israel and the deliberate avoidance of any mention of the problems posed by the palestinian authority are disappointing. if we want to be helpful, it is important and necessary to have a parliament acting as a true balanced and fair mediator and to encourage bilateral negotiation between israel and palestine for peace based on a ‘two states for two peoples’ solution. the palestinian authority should put its effort on ending the policy of incitement to violence and use the european funds for the benefit of its citizens. and israel should continue to respect the supreme court decisions with regard to settlements, as it already happened in the case of amona.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, mr president-in-office, again i can state today without a shadow of a doubt that albania has made tremendous progress towards meeting the political criteria for membership and the implementation of the five key priorities for the opening of accession negotiations and beyond that. moreover, the albanian ruling majority has proved its leadership and demonstrated its commitment to make every effort to ensure a constructive political dialogue and to build on the existing political consensus on eu integration to pursue their reform agenda. national unity is needed to open the paths of the eu integration to albania. i can assure that on this path you will constantly have our group’s support and the european parliament’s support too. on 9 november last the commission recommended conditional opening of the accession, and i hope that the commission will confirm the opening of a chapter for albania.
thank you, madam president. albania has made remarkable progress in its european path, particularly in the areas of judicial reform, the fight against corruption and regional cooperation. all of this is legal right now. there was a consensus between the government and the opposition very well for the adoption of this legislation. but the most important thing, we all know, is implementation. the process of selection and appointment of judges must be fair and independent, as must investigations, as must convictions, done independently, by independent and professional people. we have elections in albania in june this year, and i hope that these elections will not polarize power and opposition so as to jeopardize reforms and their implementation. i would like to remind you of something that applies to everyone: the only purpose for gaining power, for a political party or for a person, is to serve your nation and your people and your country.
madam president, i believe albania has made progress on its succession-related reforms. it has notably embarked on a comprehensive judicial reform process, which has been a major demand from albanian citizens. albania should now ensure that the judicial and other key reforms are being implemented. the judicial reform will allow albania to move forward on other key priorities as well, such as the fight against corruption and organised crime. accession negotiations should be opened as soon as there has been credible progress on the implementation of the judicial reform. i welcome the inclusion in the report of the need to reinforce the legislative framework for the protection of the rights of national minority, especially those of the greeks who represent the largest national minority in albania, but also macedonians, montenegrins and romanians, who unfortunately are only recognised as a cultural minority rather than a national minority. we should by all means send a clear message to the western balkans that one day they will become part of the european union. i also congratulate the rapporteur.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission will welcome the adoption of the resolution on albania and will continue to rely on the views expressed by the european parliament in its upcoming engagement with albania. since albania was recognised as a candidate country in 2014, it has consistently made steady progress on the five key priorities leading to the commission’s conditional recommendation in november 2016 to open accession negotiations. in light of this recommendation, the commission would like to stress once again that the most important priority for albania at the moment remains the implementation of justice reform and the swift kick-off of the process for the re-evaluation of judges and prosecutors. may i stress once again that it is about the process and not simply about adopting any kind of legislation. no, it is about a sustainable track record. this vetting process has now started and the commission is supporting and overseeing these efforts with the launch of the international monitoring operation last week as called for by the constitution of albania. we are therefore glad to have the european parliament’s support in these endeavours and are looking forward to its successful implementation, which will contribute to the entrenchment of the rule of law throughout the country. the observations in your resolution provide good guidance in this specific regard. to conclude, i would like to reiterate that the commission will continue to intensify its support, monitoring and assessment of the results that albania will achieve on its reform path. concrete results will not only bring the country closer to the european union, but also guarantee that all albanian citizens can rely on a functioning democratic state that successfully provides welfare, security and opportunities. i hope that all political actors in albania will also work with this important objective in mind.
president-in-office of the council. thank you madam chair, thank you commissioner, thank you all the members who participated. above all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fleckenstein, for his excellent work. and i think that, both through your report and through this discussion we have attended, we can draw a line that the three institutions are of the same opinion. they recognise the work done by albania towards 'accession' to the membership of the european union. of course, now, as the commissioner has also said, one must look at other challenges that albania has to meet and, in particular, the reform in the field of justice, and of course the actions to achieve the five priorities that we have referred to many times in this debate. the fact remains that albania has taken several directions on the right track. the european union is of course ready to assist albania and open further negotiations as long as those conditions and those priority areas are met.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to present to you today the contents of this report on the european commission's 2016 report on bosnia and herzegovina. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, on all the efforts you are making every day to move bosnia and herzegovina towards europe, especially since we are all here friends of bosnia and herzegovina and wish to support and help the country in its european integration. the year 2016 was particularly rich in terms of bosnia's european path. it started with the formal submission of the application for membership of the european union in february 2016 and ended with the questionnaire from the european commission last december, which was decided by the council of the union in september. we have come a long way and we look forward to the opinion to be given shortly by the european commission, which will hopefully allow bosnia and herzegovina to obtain the status of candidate country. it is one of the last countries in the region to have not yet reached this milestone and i think that the authorities as well as the citizens need encouragement. our encouragement is first to cooperation within the country and then with the european commission throughout the opinion procedure. it is a heavy and demanding process, which must be taken very seriously, and will be a real baptism of fire for the recently approved coordination mechanism on european issues. we further encourage the authorities to stay on track with the reforms contained in the reform agenda, approved in 2015. these reforms, primarily socioeconomic, are necessary to make a significant improvement in the lives of citizens. we further stress, as we did last year, that political reforms must also continue in order to transform bosnia and herzegovina into an efficient, inclusive, democratic and rule of law state. however, as noted in the report adopted by the committee on foreign affairs, joint reform efforts continue to be hampered by ethnic and political divisions. progress is imperative on issues such as the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and the reform of the judiciary and public administration. despite all the positive developments in recent times, there are still significant concerns. the same applies to the difficulties in establishing an institutionalised parliamentary dialogue with bosnia and herzegovina, due to the impossibility of adopting the rules of procedure of the stabilisation and association parliamentary committee, or the fact that long-standing disagreements have once again deprived the inhabitants of mostar of the right to vote in local elections. perhaps the most worrying case is the referendum on the day of republika srpska, which was a serious blow to the rule of law and a threat to the stability of the country. unfortunately, the polarization of society by ethno-nationalist rhetoric still continues and is still likely to hinder the advance towards europe. we therefore want to send a strong signal to the authorities to continue and accelerate reforms. there is no shortage of issues that require urgent attention, starting with the fight against corruption, which i have already mentioned. much remains to be done to establish a professional administration as well. the efficiency of the judiciary and the independence of the judiciary also require special attention, among others. we also expect more coordination and determination in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. last but not least, much remains to be done to improve the legal and institutional policy framework for respect for human rights. the multiple forms of discrimination that remain and are listed in the report, starting with the discrimination against citizens in the sejdić-finci judgment and subsequent decisions of the european court of human rights, must be taken seriously. madam president, i would like to conclude on this idea of inclusion which should be hopeful: inclusion of citizens, more participation of civil society, including on the question of european integration.
madam president, please. progress is needed in the process of european integration of the western balkan states. bosnia and herzegovina must follow the path already taken by other states. it won't be a short and easy journey, but it's in all of our interests to make it a success. reconciliation between neighbouring peoples was once key to western european societies, so it should come as no surprise that it is not easy in eastern europe either. and there's not as much economic development here as there was in the west after world war ii, so it's a much more difficult and slower process. if the countries of the region do not offer attractive prospects for the different nationalities, then, unfortunately, tensions and antagonisms may be intensified again. economic development is therefore at the service of peace, and therefore constant progress in the accession process is necessary. in today's uncertain world, european unity cannot be complete without the western balkans, and sooner or later bosnia and herzegovina will have to become an eu member state.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission will welcome the adoption of the resolution on bosnia and herzegovina and may i say the commission takes good note of this resolution and will take parliament’s views into account in its future engagement, including those expressed today. i understand that there has been at times a difficult discussion as regards some elements and references to eu principles and values. let me stress here that difficult issues will be progressively addressed throughout the country’s eu integration process, starting with the future opinion of the commission on the merits of bosnia and herzegovina’s application for eu membership. the commission will continue in this respect providing policy guidance to the country’s authorities as to how to progressively meet eu accession criteria, including compliance with the eu acquis. finally, i would like to stress that the commission in general, and myself in particular, will spare no effort in supporting bosnia and herzegovina on its path towards the eu. in this regard i am glad that the next western balkans 6 meeting within the connectivity agenda will take place on 16 march in sarajevo. the commission will continue to keep parliament informed on further developments regarding bosnia and herzegovina and i think there is probably no country in the region where talking about the ‘process’ – rather than just the term ‘work in progress’ – so precisely addresses the challenges we are facing in the country. it is definitely about the process and it is not simply about negotiating something. indeed we have to give the country some time, some patience, but we should also be passionate to advance the country’s european perspectives.
president-in-office of the council. thank you, madam chair, thank you also to the commissioner, and to you, honourable members, in particular to the honourable preda for the report and the good work he has done, and for the discussion that has been here in this debate and i would once again like to welcome with satisfaction as council the significant progress that bosnia and herzegovina has made in its journey towards the european union. we are there to give all the 'support' and assistance to bosnia and herzegovina, but the biggest challenge remains for their leaders in this respect. and so we hope now that they will also remain committed to the opinion process at all levels, and ensure that there is significant progress especially when it comes to implementing the reform agenda. most crucially, we also believe as many of us have referred to it tonight, to overcome the divisive rhetoric of each other. thank you very much and it was a pleasure to participate in this debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you to all colleagues for your speeches and, once again, a big thank you to commissioner hahn and the maltese presidency. i would like to emphasize three things. firstly, there is the temptation in bosnia to put things off, not to do them at the right time. we've seen it before and i hope we won't. i see danger coming, especially about the questionnaire. they have already begun to say, here and there, that the questionnaire must be subjected to political judgment question by question. if they're doing it to postpone the answer, it's not good at all. there is patience, as commissioner hahn says, but patience has its limits. secondly, i would like to talk about political reforms. we have mentioned in our resolution the political principles common to our states, but of course these political principles and the debate on the political background must not be a block, an obstacle to political reforms. no one says that. on the other hand, if the bosnians, croats, bosniaks and serbs are capable of making these reforms, if they are capable of implementing the sejdić-finci judgment, if they are capable of making elections more representative, why not? we're going to congratulate them. it's up to them. we will not dictate to strasbourg how to carry out electoral reform. if they can do it, good for them! otherwise, they should not block economic reforms. thirdly, all the political groups, with the exception of that of mrs marine le pen, have said 'yes' to supporting bosnia. there is only one group that actually represents the voice of russia. as in republika srpska, it is not the views of the serbs in bosnia and herzegovina that are expressed, but the interests of russia. it is also wonderful to see that a political group such as that led by marine le pen speaks of the interests of the peoples when it is very clear how, in this assembly, the interests of russia are being loudly proclaimed by those members of the marine le pen group. the people of bosnia and herzegovina need to know this. the only people who oppose support for bosnia in this parliament are russia's friends, russia's spokesmen, and this is a disgrace to our parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 february 2017.
the next item is the joint debate on: the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: annual growth analysis for 2017 (2016/2306 ((ini)) (a80039/2017), the report by yanei toom, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: employment and social aspects in the annual growth analysis for 2017 (2016/2307 ((ini)) (a83700/2017) and the report by antonio lópez-istrizú white, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the annual report on the single market in the european union in the 2017 semester (a82400 ((ini)) (a16824/2017).
mr president, this week we are witnessing several fundamental debates about the future of economic and monetary union and the shape of the european economy. the main question is what we can do to strengthen the economy of the european union. the answer is that every member state of the european union has to have a stronger economy in order to make the economy of the union as a whole much stronger. member states have to converge, and they have to converge towards the level of the strongest and most competitive members. how can we achieve this in practice? firstly, the implementation of structural reforms, as outlined in the country—specific recommendations, is essential. only 4% of country—specific recommendations are fully implemented, and more than 50% are not implemented at all. we have to support member states in order to improve on the implementation of the country—specific recommendations and we have to find incentives for member states to implement the reforms which we all know that they need, and which are written in the country—specific recommendations, but which are not yet implemented well enough. to strengthen our economies so that they can face the next crisis, improving their competitiveness and reforming is the best recipe. the second element is trust. what improves trust in the union’s economy is its predictability and credibility. in this sense, respecting existing financial rules – the two-pack, six-pack and stability and growth pact – is of the essence.
mr president, coming from romania where a critical 20% of young people are inactive and not in education or training, where a similar rate of children leave school early and where opportunities for adults to benefit from lifelong learning are still very scarce, i can only welcome the emphasis on education in the growth survey and the joint employment report. without reassuringly dealing with our gaps in the education system, there can be no proper foundation for future economic growth, competitiveness or social development. every young person who falls through the cracks of inadequately designed education systems, or who fills the ranks of the long-term unemployed and is pushed to the margins, is also an asset lost for the whole of society. acknowledging that this area is a member state competence, i can only repeat my calls for my country to increase investment in the public education system, reform it to better match economic and social challenges and be more supportive towards the disadvantaged. and this better use of structural investment funds and the youth guarantee would be essential, just as an efficient uptake of the newly designed instruments for the skills agenda and the structural reform support programme.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 february 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 february 2017.
madam president, we have reached the final stage of a lengthy and difficult process of exercising democratic scrutiny over the negotiation and approval of ceta. the s&d group has followed closely, as have many colleagues in this house, the negotiations since before what i would call its first conclusion in september 2014. we have voiced concerns, demanded changes and achieved most of those already on the occasion of what was effectively the second conclusion of the negotiations in february 2016. the most important of these was the removal of the old, toxic, isds from the treaty and its replacement with a public system, the new ics. in the past year, we have also contributed to, and closely scrutinised and debated, what became the new ceta package submitted to the european parliament for consent today. we welcome, as a group, the fact that many of the citizens’ concerns have been addressed through clarifications and commitments from the commission and the canadian authorities, through the joint interpretative instrument and the other instruments in the package. ceta is not perfect, far from it, but it is an important step in the right direction: a more progressive trade policy where the benefits are widely spread among all citizens. the s&d group has tabled its own consensual resolution which clarifies what we mean by progressive trade agreements by spelling out clearly what we like about ceta, and what we do not like about ceta and expect to be further corrected in ceta where agreed, or in future trade agreements more widely: better provisions on sustainable development and a sanctions-based approach; further improvements to the ics system and full european parliament involvement in the designation of judges; better forms to cover the protection of public services; and improved transparency for all trade agreements in future. the s&d group has decided to vote in favour of ceta. this is because most of us believe ceta is good for our economy, particularly for smes, and it does not threaten our choices, values or laws. but it is also an act of trust and an offer of partnership towards the eu institutions, notably the commission and the council, with which we want to work together for a better trade policy, and towards canada, which is a country that shares our values, our objectives and our hopes for a better future.
madam president, we need to protect european industries and european farmers and to support and protect our smes, start-ups and exporters. we also need to protect and promote our service industries, innovation and european ipr. i believe that there is a broad consensus on this both inside and outside this house. but how can we achieve this? is protectionism the best protection that we can provide? the history of the global economy and trade in the last hundred years teaches us that protectionism is a poor tool. the cost of protectionist measures has always turned out to be higher than the short—term gain of such measures. the best we can do for european industries, smes and farmers is to actively promote their interests. today that means providing for a fair, modern, 21st century trade agreement with a like—minded partner. today that means approving ceta.
madam president, commissioner, this is a historic moment for the european union, because it is the first free trade agreement that the european union has concluded with another major economy in the oecd. personally, i believe in the need for trade agreements with other non-european countries, but obviously on a win-win basis. the internal market needs to develop, to internationalise its businesses, especially smes. whenever you make a deal, you have to think about what you're losing and what you're gaining. you can't pretend to win all by yourself. that is why i support trade agreements, alongside trade defence measures and that is the commission's duty. my fears at the start of the negotiations were dispelled, those about product standards and the legal mechanism. in the end, we have to make an economic decision, but also a political one, and we always have to know which is the best option, because there is no ideal solution. so i think we have a duty to support the development of the internal market through good trade agreements, not to close the internal market.
mr president, ceta is a landmark free trade agreement that would make both parties richer. by abolishing 98% of tariffs and other trade barriers, it would provide excellent opportunities for smes. it would also liberalise cross-border investment and trade in services. it would open competition for large government contracts, it would support enforcement of intellectual property rights and would facilitate mutual recognition in the extremely important services market. beyond the merits of the agreement itself, its adoption would also signify two essential things. it would reinforce that the eu still believes in the benefits of free trade and open markets that ensured its post-war prosperity, and that it is able to regain some of the trade negotiation credibility that it lost when it decided to give up its exclusive competence over the deal.
the next item is the debate on the report by ms monica hohlmeier, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on combating terrorism and replacing council framework decision 2002/475/jha on combating terrorism (com (2015) 0625 c80386/2015 2015/0281 cod) (a80228/2016).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, after the shock and tears after the terrorist attacks, after the deaths, we did what we had to do: we came together and worked out a package against terrorism, a package of several laws that will be voted on in large part in this session. we want to defend our values, we want to defend our lifestyle, we don't want to change it, but we have to defend ourselves against those who want to destroy both our values and our lifestyle and the whole history of civilization and civilization that we have reached today. this new directive, the counterterrorism directive, punishes those who fund, organize or facilitate travel to areas where isis operates. it also punishes those who organize training for fighters or finance terrorist acts. incitement to terrorism and public distribution of messages, including messages glorifying terrorist acts, will now be defined as terrorist activities. so we will have new offences in terms of terrorist activities, which will have to be transposed into the legislation of the member states. the threat of terrorism is not a matter of the moment, but of the long term. it is undeniable that we need a united response to protect ourselves and to stand together against the threat of terrorism. first, we need to talk about the right to life. the right to life is the first right that must be protected in this world because without the right to life there is no other right and therefore the real threat comes from those who seek to destroy the right to life. i thank monica holhmeier for the way she has led the work on this report and congratulate her once again and i urge everyone to vote on this report.
blue-card question. – do you know how many passports this ahmed had? seven.
as i understand it, this was a blue card to me, not to mr korwin—mikke. mr korwin-mikke, do you consider that you answered ms becerra basterrechea?
mr president your personal safety is our first priority. when doubts arise about the ability of the legitimate force - the state - to maintain order and security, this creates uncertainty and chaos in other areas of life. the increasing interconnectedness of terrorism and organised crime means that we are facing systemic threats: it is an old truth that law enforcement must keep pace with crime. we must therefore use every means at our disposal to combat terrorism with the same organization and the same means that terrorists and the networks that support them use to take the lives of our citizens. we cannot tolerate these people being trained in our territory, radicalized, and then sent to conflict zones from which they can easily return. we need to rethink our notions of aiding and abetting and we need to monitor cyber activity very closely. the widespread sharing of intelligence information implies a high level of trust between member states, but it is a necessary step. we face the same threats, so our actions must be coordinated. one of the great things about europe today is that we can actually travel between member states without any obstacles. of course, terrorists take advantage of this, but the right response is effective prevention and tough action, not reinstating borders and closing them down. if we choose this, you've already won.
the reporter. madam president, if we want security within the european union, then we must secure the external borders of the european union and that is what we have done with this regulation, a joint regulation of the european parliament and the council, by which we strengthen the external borders, we strengthen checks at the external borders of the european union. in short, what this proposal for a regulation brings is the verification of persons entering and leaving the european union, at any external border of the european union, in databases - and i will refer to this immediately: in databases. this is a change from today's situation where eu citizens are not checked on entering and leaving the schengen area, and non-eu citizens from third countries are only checked on entering and not on leaving. so what we're changing is that everyone, both eu citizens and non-eu citizens, will be checked both on entry and on exit, and we're not just talking about the schengen area, but the entire european union, so the external border of the european union. will they be checked how? they'll be checked against the databases. the compulsory databases to be checked by the member states are, according to this proposal for a regulation, the schengen information system and the interpol lost and stolen documents database. it also provides for verification in any other relevant european database. it could be the visa database or, in the future, because it has not yet been adopted, the exit database of people entering or leaving the european union. of course, these databases must be full of complete, accurate information and must be transmitted immediately by the member states. here again, i call on the member states, that all this cooperation and all this construction that we are doing depends on the speed and accuracy of the data that they send to the databases, because the member states are the ones who feed the databases, so they have a great responsibility to send the information quickly, completely and correctly. there are also some exceptions to the individual check, just to avoid making it more difficult to cross the border. for land and sea borders, it is possible that at any time, when there is a very high level of passenger traffic, those crossing the border may be asked to carry out targeted checks based on information, so that only certain persons are checked, only certain persons for whom information exists are checked in databases. this can of course be done with the agreement of the commission and after a risk assessment. for air borders there is a transition period of six months, during which member states are obliged to purchase all the necessary equipment for these checks, equipment and training of persons working at airports. this six-month period may be extended to 18 months by the commission when requested by a member state for certain airports. for example, you do not need to apply for all airports in a country. here you have to prove that you still have structural problems and technical problems. i'd like to give you an example of how this control will be done, so that everyone can understand. it's basically a scan of the travel document, the passport, and if in one of these databases there's information about the person, then on the screen of the controller the information appears and the person goes through other checks. so this isn't a random search of the databases. there's only one interface where you get a red flag if you find that name in one of the databases mentioned, which means it shouldn't take long to check the databases. i also want to point out that for all this equipment and all this training, there is a european internal security fund, which is in the commission, in the directorate-general for migration and home affairs, dg home, and from which the member states will receive money to buy this equipment and for training. i would also like to point out that this regulation, this proposal for a regulation - i hope it will be voted on tomorrow and become a regulation - is supplemented by other provisions in addition to those in the directive on combating terrorism which we discussed earlier and which we are voting on tomorrow. we also have other provisions, for example, providing for mobile teams that can come to the aid of an external border if necessary, immediately providing for appropriate personnel to be sent from member states within the union that do not have an external border to defend to help member states that are at the union's border. i mean, to be a joint effort to defend our borders. finally, i'd like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation, for the way we worked. it was not a short road, it was not an easy road, but we came to an understanding, with wisdom, and we made a regulation, i say, good, for the citizens of the european union. again, it is very important how it will be applied by the member states and how it will be put into practice by the people at the border.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in line with the group's policy, in the face of the major threats posed by illegal migration and terrorism, i welcome the idea of strengthening border controls. i have three observations to make. the first concerns the hypertrophied nature of community documents and legislation in this field. as terrorism becomes faster, more direct and more effective, european bureaucracy is tearing a hair in four. the union's reaction to the rapidity of threats is dinosaur-like and we all know what happened to the dinosaurs. the second observation concerns the emptying of the concept of freedom of movement. under the pretext of security, huge databases are being built that escape any democratic control. gradually, the freedom of movement of citizens is being transformed into the freedom of suspicion of citizens by supranational institutions. finally, the third comment, more specific this time, concerns the states of the union which are not in schengen. they do not have the rights of the schengen states, but they have the same obligations as the schengen states. in other words, outright discrimination. it's unfair and humiliating.
mr president, the adoption of the treaty of lisbon was the most important step in reforming and strengthening the european union since its inception. at the same time, today's realities show us that there are, however, backlogs on the part of the member states, which create major difficulties in meeting the commitments and obligations assumed to ensure security and stability at the level of the european union. the recent armed attacks in various cities and capitals within the union show that terrorism has become a real threat to the lives and security of citizens of the european union. the response to this problem needs to be a cross-border approach and, to this end, member state authorities need to have access within the shortest possible time to relevant data contained in files, documents, information, objects or other evidence seized in connection with terrorist offences committed in another member state. the european union institutions must make every effort to create up-to-date instruments and adopt an effective, rigorous and harmonised legal framework. they must hold the member states accountable for the fulfilment of their obligations, namely to provide each other with information on terrorist offences and more and, i stress, more, to enable decisions to be taken in real time. only by strengthening the union's legal framework and cooperation between member states will it be possible to combat terrorism in all its forms, while ensuring respect for a fundamental right of a citizen, namely the right to life.
commissioner, i listened very carefully to your speech, which was really extensive and of high quality, and i thank you for it, but the whole debate that has taken place here has made it clear that the key problem is the reluctance of individual member states to share information. i think that is probably the biggest problem, and even if we adopt a directive tomorrow setting out new obligations for the member states, i think that the commission and the council must constantly put pressure on the member states and point out that without the willingness of the individual member states, no better system will work. this is simply the reality and any new legislation will not solve this situation without the willingness of the member states. i personally wanted to raise the question of europol and its new counter-terrorism centre, as i understand the first results, and you also mentioned it, this centre is starting to work well and the amount of information being exchanged is increasing. that's why i'm asking for more financial support for this institute.
mr president, mr borg, commissioner king, the european union’s area of freedom, security and justice was created to ensure free movement of persons and to provide its citizens with a high level of security. in recent years terrorism has become a real challenge to the world and to europe. therefore, to make the fight against terrorism a priority objective of the european union, as the council stated many times, requires better collaboration between europol, eurojust and member states’ intelligence services. i agree with commissioner king that some of the recent terrorist attacks showed the weaknesses in the sharing of information between member states. information exchange needs to be improved at their level in order to facilitate the performance of eu bodies. in this matter, the role of the european parliament as a co-legislator is more than necessary in improving the legal framework to ensure that certain information vital for law enforcement authorities is exchanged in good time within the union, but of course, not forgetting data protection.
mr president, mr borg, commissioner, we all agree that efforts to prevent and combat terrorism must be stepped up in the light of the attacks of the past year. this report is welcomed, but implementation of the measures and cooperation between member states is essential. as the report shows, the fight against terrorism is a global fight and the european union cannot tackle and win it alone. communication and the transmission of information is important, but not sufficient. the 2014 un security council resolution imposes an obligation on member states to criminalize certain terrorist-related offences and you, commissioner, should pursue this if it applies. you talked about the schengen information system, it's very good. the problem is that we have the borders of the european union and outside the schengen area, and you have to do everything possible to get non-schengen states to join in the exchange of information, because after all, the terrorist crossing is cross-border, and we have to worry about the border of the european union. i hope, however, that we will take steps to combat terrorism and ensure world peace, because peace saves lives.
mr president, council decisions on data exchange between member states should take into account the provisions as agreed in the lisbon treaty. this should have been done years ago, but unfortunately nothing has been done yet. this matter is of utmost importance for the security of european citizens. there is an urgent need to improve information sharing among and between the member states, and for instruments such as the new so-called police directive on data protection, providing a high level structure for information exchange. i believe it is important to ensure fundamental rights protection as well, the necessity and proportionality of what is exchanged, and the data protection and privacy issues on how the data is exchanged and between whom – speaking now about the respective institutions.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, medical robot devices already provide better diagnoses and better insight into treatment, care and rehabilitation options, and will move forward the boundaries of medicine in the future. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety focused in the opinion on the importance of keeping the patient-doctor relationship as regards to diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. we also focused on the importance of medical education and the training of health professionals: human care-givers will still be needed and will continue to provide an important source of social interaction. we emphasised, too, the importance of minimising the possible environmental and ecological footprint of robotics and maximising the potential for making processes more resource efficient. assessment of the long-term moral and ethical implications of new technologies before and throughout their development is imperative. and, last, but not least, we need safety safeguards and standard safety certification procedures, and adaptation of the legislation on patient privacy, medical professional secrecy and data protection in the area of public health. the provisions on the aspects mentioned above were adopted with a large majority in the environment committee and i was happy to see that ms delvaux took these ideas on board in the final committee on legal affairs report.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this document which defines the civil law rules on robotics. the importance of this report is given by the real trends in european industry and economy. in recent years, robot sales have been growing at an average of 17 percent per year, while in 2014 alone, we're talking about an almost 30 percent increase generated by the latest advances in automotive technology. in fact, annual patent filings for robotics technology have tripled in the last decade, and many countries, such as japan, the united states, china, and south korea, are considering regulatory measures related to robotics and artificial intelligence. the report defines the general principles for the development of robotics and provides regulations that make economic activity in this field predictable and coherent for both industry and, above all, for workers and users. an important aspect highlighted in the report is the possibility of creating a european agency for robotics and artificial intelligence. i support this approach which can help the relevant public actors to have a clear perspective on the opportunities and challenges. i would obviously like this agency to be set up, why not, in my country, romania.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs delvaux and all those who have worked on this report for their efforts. we are now in an industrial revolution where artificial intelligence and robotics have become the most important technological trends of the century. their development has led to increased efficiency in economies, but also to increased safety in trade, transport, healthcare and education. equally important, technological development jobs have been created and research and innovation have been encouraged. however, the commission and the member states have an obligation to ensure an efficient transfer from research to commercialisation and widespread use of these technologies, while ensuring that safety is fully respected. however, new developments in robotics have demonstrated the need for a current legal framework that drives the continuation and development of research in the field, but also ensures effective protection of people who interact with such robots. we therefore stress the need to develop a set of legal rules on civil liability for damage caused by robots that are grounded in reality. it is therefore important to speak not only of efficiency but also of transparency and above all of consistency in achieving legal certainty throughout the european union, for the benefit of both consumers and businesses. in this context, it is also important that the work carried out by robots and artificial intelligence systems comply with union legislation on data protection, but above all on the privacy of citizens.
madam president, commissioner, i do not think you have had the opportunity to see such a large majority supporting, from left to right, the same issue. the problem is not the tolling of the motorways. sure, we had two exceptions, but i think they misread our question. it's not the tolling of the motorways that's the problem, it's the way that the tolling is done. i would suggest, commissioner, because i trust you, that you give the tape of this evening to mr juncker, so that he can understand and thank his german colleagues, regardless of their political group, for having understood what europe means. i would like to ask you to give the recording of this evening to mr juncker, because you have the hot potato in your hand. you can't solve it alone, but, behold, this unity and solidarity tonight can help you solve the problem. we must not have another case like this and a precedent and we expect answers to all questions. thank you to all the colleagues who supported this question.
in writing. any direct or indirect reimbursement system based on nationality is wrong and contrary to the european principle of freedom of movement. i therefore consider that the german government's decision to introduce a vignette for cars in germany is discriminatory and distorts the transport market throughout europe. it is clear that by giving owners of cars registered in germany a tax deduction after the tax is paid, owners in other member states are put at a disadvantage, and this directly affects the competitiveness of foreign firms. in this context, i expect the european executive to be firm in its respect for the principles laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and to take a decision as soon as possible on the legality of the vignette for cars travelling in germany. at the same time, i believe that we need a common legislative framework at european level, as well as an efficient taxation system that reflects the union's environmental ambition on the one hand, and takes into account the financial possibilities of the different member states on the other.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i welcome the commission's cloud computing initiative as part of the implementation of the digital single market strategy and the european industry digitalisation package, thus supporting the growth of the european digital economy, contributing to the competitiveness of european businesses and services and strengthening the position on the global market. as the benefits of cloud computing are essential for sustainable growth, job creation and researchers, it is important to reduce the fragmentation of digital infrastructures, ensure appropriate governance and funding for the european cloud. the development of 5g technology and the new rules to be established by the european electronic communications code should make the european open science cloud more attractive, providing high-quality internet services and a new, higher-quality infrastructure. the development of clear standards for interoperability, data portability and cloud service level agreements will also provide greater certainty and transparency for the benefit of both users and cloud service providers. commissioner, i believe that the report adopted by the itre committee and which we are discussing today enjoys great support in parliament and also from the commission. in order to ensure the success of this initiative, i would like to ask you what measures the commission is considering to stimulate the participation of european smes and the private sector in the production of equipment, software and for the european data infrastructure and also how we can secure the necessary financial resources for this initiative.
mr president, i welcome this report on the european cloud initiative and i am confident that parliament's position will be taken into account by the commission. the cloud industry is growing very fast and is estimated to reach almost €45 billion in 2020. in fact, it is enough to look at the fact that 25% of european companies already use the cloud for storing emails or documents, and a third of them also use financial or management applications in the cloud. however, almost half of the companies consider the cloud to still be a significant security risk and justify not using the technology by lack of skills. in fact, if the european union really wants to invest in this technology, it has to provide the necessary amounts of money. we are 4.7 billion euros short of funding the initiative. we only have 12% of the european fund for strategic investments focused on digital, and we want to have solutions. we need to act directly, quickly in education, in the public sector, in educating companies, to have a european cloud. commissioner, you have the support of the european parliament for this, be strong.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, commissioner, the european structural and investment funds must be used to promote quality lifelong learning and skills systems that facilitate the adaptation of work to the changing realities of the working environment, and the creation and promotion of quality jobs, with a focus on rural areas where women and young people are the most affected by unemployment. i believe that the union must work closely with the member states to ensure that the gender dimension is fully integrated in the implementation of rural development programmes and that particular attention is paid to projects targeting young people. on the other hand, the european agricultural fund for rural development plays an important role, especially if we consider the degree of flexibility promoted at european level in order to respond as effectively as possible to specific territorial needs and to achieve the 3 cross-cutting objectives of innovation, environment and climate change mitigation.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr lambert on his tireless support for cohesion policy. the european union is currently going through a difficult period economically, socially and politically, and populism and extremism need firm and immediate responses. cohesion policy, along with other policies, is the foundation of the european union. today more than ever, an effective investment policy is needed, one that is able to generate economic growth through employment and, above all, one that is close to the citizens. the development of research and innovation, which stimulates and strengthens small and medium-sized enterprises, must remain an objective for all of us. at the same time, we must continue to look at tackling social disparities, unemployment, but above all we must bring added value by increasing citizens' trust in the european union. it is also necessary to increase the visibility of cohesion policy, which is a factor generating gdp growth, including in net donor states, through investment in convergence regions. i would thus like to stress the importance of involving and participating citizens in the development and implementation of cohesion policy, and the beneficiaries must be the true ambassadors of these policies. there are also realities, but they cannot be ignored, and here i am referring to the difficult public procurement procedures which are currently the main obstacles to the implementation of cohesion policy. i recommend that we give high priority to simplifying and eliminating unnecessary procedures, but also to creating a regulatory framework tailored to the specific needs and challenges faced by the regions.
in writing. europe's present, difficult in many ways, highlights the need for an emotional approach to its policies and for them to be based, more than ever, on meeting the needs of european citizens: secure jobs, a high standard of living, social cohesion, reducing unemployment, by exploiting its financial instruments. achieving the europe 2020 objectives is possible by maximising synergies between the structural funds, the european investment funds and other eu instruments, which contribute to increasing the effectiveness of the programmes and related projects. however, the basis for maximising these synergies is provided by the set of institutionalised extended cooperation mechanisms and platforms, which should also present the achievements of cooperation programmes and projects, the success stories, thus contributing to increasing their visibility and public awareness of the importance of the contribution of those financial instruments to community development and to increasing investment in job creation and security.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have contributed to this report. as a member of the tran commission, i understand the importance of the aviation sector in the context of the strategy of connectivity, competitiveness, but also tourism development. i think that the council also needs to show political will in support of the development of aviation potential. commissioner, i am sure you are well aware that the development of aviation affects competitiveness, mobility and economic development in the single market. the commission itself has estimated that there are losses of around €5 billion a year due to delays in the 'single european sky'. at the same time, there are still issues of quality and passenger safety and i think you need to take into account concrete measures to protect passengers but also to improve the quality of services. i welcome the commission communication 'an aviation strategy for europe' and the attempts to remove barriers, but i want it to be put into practice. i shall vote in favour of this report and i hope that the proposals you receive today, commissioner, will be translated into concrete measures.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for bringing up this case. as you know, the european union follows very closely the situation on human rights in nicaragua and we had been monitoring the case of ms ramirez. in this instance, the european union delegation contacted her to find out her situation during the police seizure of her vehicles, which she finally recovered. international media attention probably played a role in the rapid return of her property. this is, of course, a satisfactory outcome for an unfortunate situation that could have been avoided in the first place. the eu, however, remains vigilant. the authorities of nicaragua must ensure that all human rights defenders can express their legitimate opinions without fear of retaliation. through continuing contacts and monitoring, the european union draws attention, whenever it is necessary, to human rights issues and specific situations. increased visibility, as has been the case with ms ramirez, may help to resolve or minimise human rights organisations’ and defenders’ difficulties. eu officials at all levels have regular contact with key local and international civil-society organisations, human rights organisations and activists. when necessary, the eu delegation and member states have raised – and they will continue to raise – human rights issues with government officials. the eu and the member states have a number of programmes and projects to support nicaraguan and other central american civil-society organisations. like any other civil-society organisation, francesca ramirez’s organisation can apply to benefit from eu development cooperation funds, and information sessions are regularly held at local level in order to explain the process to all the interested organisations. among the human right priorities, the delegation and member states’ embassies present in nicaragua have decided to focus on improving the rule of law, promoting gender and lgbti rights, as well as social, education health rights, and encouraging civil society to participate actively in the national development agenda and in the defence of fundamental rights. i would like to take this opportunity to reassert the european union’s commitment to human rights in nicaragua and to reiterate the eu’s pledge to contribute to human rights defenders’ security, well-being and dignity.
mr president, the epp group strongly condemns the recent executions in bahrain and kuwait and the fact that these two countries have ended the moratorium on the death penalty that was put in place many years ago. even for serious crimes, the use of the death penalty is unacceptable. at the same time, i regret that the debate in parliament on this crucial issue is not based on the defence of the union's values and human rights, but on solidarity with certain countries or regimes. the pluralist left, including the five star movement and other followers, only impose executions in sunni-led regimes on the agenda. their shiite friends must, in a way, be protected. but that is unacceptable! in iran, there are more executions than in any country that the left forces us to talk about. i therefore call on my colleagues from the other political groups not to ignore these more alarming cases and to discuss together these serious violations of fundamental principles in all regimes, whether shia or sunni. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the author, replying 'blue card'. mr. castaldo, you must be pleased to have mrs. vergiat's applause. the problem is that whenever we discuss emergencies, only the epp group proposes to discuss the executions carried out in this large region of the world by both shiite and sunni regimes. we're the only ones! whenever other political groups propose emergencies, it is only from the iranian perspective. they are a bit more oriented towards what tehran wants than our core values.
authorised. mr. president, in guatemala there is a state of uncertainty, as if people's lives depend, so, on how the wind blows, actually on how the government wants. the justice system is corrupt, but not only that, the justice system is also subject to intimidation and harassment by the government. now let's imagine what a justice system looks like that is both corrupt and harassed and intimidated. it's a lethal combination, there's practically no viable justice system in guatemala. as for human rights defenders, they too are subject to harassment and violence and threats, and in the last year 14 have been killed; 14 people, 14 human rights defenders have been killed. the world is revolting, and what is the guatemalan government doing? it decided to militarize public order -- so this is the typical response of a dictatorship government: we don't like justice, we don't like human rights, we don't like people who defend human rights, so let's militarize. of course, this has caused protests among the population, especially the indigenous population. very briefly, i ask the government of guatemala to guarantee that all human rights defenders will be able to do their job and effective, effective investigations with results for those who were killed.
mr president, what does the future of the european union look like? if we design a two-speed union, it will not look good, and this project proposes: a two-speed union. that is why i voted against this report. yes, the union has been hit by crises to which it has responded heavily and ineffectively, often too late, but the solution is not a union of eurozone states and the answer is only a union of united member states. where did the principle of "unity in diversity" go? it's just a slogan, it's not a reality for us anymore? yes, we need to reform ourselves, we need to reform the european institutions, there need to be fewer institutions, we need to be careful how we spend money, we need to be more transparent, we need to be more frugal in spending. yes, all of this is true. we must also have a single seat for the european parliament, but, i repeat, not a two-speed union.
mr president, over eur 450 billion has been allocated to the structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020. cohesion policy is still perceived as a spending policy, although it is in fact a development and investment policy. for example, in romania, with this money we have to encourage smes, support research, innovation, create and diversify jobs, develop infrastructure, also we have to invest this money in geographically disadvantaged areas or on the poverty line. i am pleased that an important objective of the commission for 2014-2020 is to continue simplifications for beneficiaries of the structural and investment funds. simplification is very important because it's easier to access these funds, and it's easier to control how the money is used. other key factors are the interest, transparency and competence of the central and local authorities managing this money.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the social democratic delegations of the already old 'new' member states of the european union. the commission's assessment, even if it may be technically correct, worries me. the commission's primary responsibility is to provide leadership and direction for the evolution of the european union, not to be a think-tank. in one of the most dramatic moments of the european union, it is imperative to reaffirm solidarity between all member states. yes, solidarity, including by maintaining a sound cohesion policy. we are opposed to the idea of a europe with two or more speeds, which is dangerous and the timing of its introduction is the worst possible. this proposal can only generate new divisions, anxiety, frustration and even humiliation, even in societies deeply convinced of the importance of the european project and willing to cooperate loyally and in all forms to strengthen the european union, such as that of my country. so, mr. president, don't take this course of action. it can only create new dissensions and tensions between member states and will certainly have a negative impact on the 2019 european elections which could become a threat to the european project.
in writing. the european commission's proposals for the future of the eu, contained in a document called the white paper, will decide by the end of the year on the future direction of the union. the five working scenarios are not exhaustive or mutually exclusive and i do not think that the document proposes a two-speed europe, because each member state has the possibility to integrate or not. this future white paper will seek to introduce new rules which the member state may or may not adhere to, thus falling into one category or another. for example, with regard to the post-crisis security fund, each member state had the opportunity to join, and this was also the case for romania. i believe that this white paper will propose a similar accession mechanism. and last but not least, the european union operates under a new qualified majority voting procedure, and around 80% of all eu legislation is adopted under this procedure. this limits the possibility of a net division of member states into two categories.
in writing. quo vadis the europe of 27?, was the question put by the president of the commission in the plenary in brussels today. presenting the white paper on the future of the eu, president juncker reviewed five possible scenarios for public debate: from a union that is as deeply integrated as possible politically, to the two-speed europe, the nightmare of the eastern states, and finally to a minimal union reduced to the status of a free trade area. the debate that is expected is more than necessary. i think the most important thing is to mobilise citizens, to motivate them to participate in the consolidation of the new eu, which, for the first time in its history, will see one of its members leave. to have a future, the eu must regain the trust of its citizens, the european project must once again become a generator of belonging, hope and even love. of the five scenarios, i believe in the sixth: the european union of its citizens. this is a union of regions and communities. rebuilt on its regions, the eu will become more efficient and able to tap into local economies. by genuinely valuing all its national, ethnic and linguistic communities, the europe of communities will truly put the citizen at the centre of its reconstruction.
mr president, dear colleagues, the meeting of the eu council is an important occasion for eu leaders to address, firstly, the economic situation in europe, trade policy, progress made on files related to the single market strategy, as well as the first phase of the 2017 european semester. on migration, leaders will have to review what has been done to implement the decisions taken at the informal summit in malta on 3 february concerning the central mediterranean route. priorities include training, equipping and supporting the libyan national coastguard and making further efforts to disrupt the business model of smugglers through enhanced operational action by involving libya and relevant international partners. moreover, the council should assess the implementation of its december 2016 conclusions on external security and defence. in this regard it is clear that something new is necessary. in a challenging geopolitical environment, eu cooperation on external security and defence has to be strengthened. we really need a future defence union.
on behalf of the ecr group. thank you. more than 10 000 children have disappeared from reception centres after entering europe with the migrant flow, according to europol data. in 2016, more than 13 000 unaccompanied minors arrived in italy alone. many made the perilous journey from north africa to europe. how do we go about protecting these children? how do we keep these children from becoming safe victims of trafficking, including organ trafficking, sexual exploitation, abuse? we can do this in several ways: through emergency numbers, through measures to reunite families, through qualified staff in reception centres and also by collecting biometric data from as young as six years old, as proposed by the commissioner in the europol regulation. it's very important that we find these children because it's the only way we can get them back safely.
mr president, in january 2016 europol revealed that at least 10 000 migrant and refugee children were missing in europe. this is a terrible drama, a terrible strategy, and very difficult to explain. it is clear that europe has to act to tackle the disappearance of migrant children with every possible means and as soon as possible. i believe the commission should inform us when it is going to present a comprehensive strategy to protect all children in migration, as announced last may in the european agenda on migration, and how it will address the clear conclusions and recommendations made during the 10th european forum on the rights of the child and the ‘lost in migration’ conference in malta. moreover, i would like to know what the commission is doing to support member states in relocating more children from greece and italy.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, children must be protected no matter in which country they live, and therefore refugee children too. if that figure is true, 35 percent of the migrants who enter are unaccompanied children, that's a huge number. how do these unaccompanied children get here? here i think we have to look for the cause and then the solutions. we always have to get to the point. it's hard to believe that minors decided to leave without parents. much safer it seems to be actually child trafficking, trafficking of children without parents. commissioner, i think we have to act on two levels. the first plan is for member states and the commission to find solutions to protect children arriving in europe, but the other solution is to do something to stop the conflicts. and i ask you directly, commissioner, there is at the moment a collaboration between the international institutions, the un, unicef, the european commission, the international red cross, the member states, local organisations, because otherwise the cause will not be resolved and we are still left with a flow of children who come in insecurity and are trafficked. thank you. thank you.
madam president, last but not least, allow a male colleague to speak about the gender pay gap. although women have as good, or better, qualifications than men in many cases, their skills are often not valued the same as men’s and their career progression is slower. this results in an average gender pay gap of 16% in the european union. over the years it also results, among other factors, in a gender pension gap of around 39%. this situation is not acceptable and has to be addressed as soon as possible. equality between men and women is one of the fundamental values of the european union but today we are reminded that it is not one of its fundamental realities. we must cut the gender pay gap by 2% each year over the next five years. the 2006 (recast) eu gender equality directive provides guidance for member states but i believe it is fundamental to have a revision of the recast directive to introduce mandatory transparency of pay reports and gender action plans in companies in order to reduce the gap.
in writing. commissioner, gender equality is a right under the treaty of rome, but as the council representative said, in practice there is a difference between regulated and actual rights. but i would like to take a more optimistic view of this issue today as we celebrate the arrival of spring in my country, the symbol being the "martichord" that women receive from men. i believe, commissioner, that the responsibility for actually achieving gender equality lies with the member states. i have to say that in my country, we've also made great progress in terms of women's involvement in leadership and pay. i would suggest, commissioner, that you aim to have measures to share positive examples from some countries, to continue actions to promote women as was the case with the network of female entrepreneurial ambassadors. the right of women to receive equal pay for the same work and the same responsibility as men must be respected, and the role of institutions, civil society and ngos is equally important.
on behalf of the ecr group. thank you. according to amnesty international, a new russian law signed by putin on february 7 this year decriminalizes some forms of domestic violence. amnesty international has called it a disgusting attempt to further downplay domestic violence, an issue that russia's leadership has long downplayed. this law kills the courage and the free spirit of the family, including minors. children are raised to have no courage, to endure violence, to endure abuse and to have their fists in their mouths. we can't have public courage if we're silenced in our families by abuse and violence. this is what awaits us in russia or with russia or under russia - human rights as in the middle ages.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, an archaic justification for domestic violence in russia says: if he beats you, it means he loves you. recently the russian orthodox church stated that corporal punishment, if reasonable and carried out with love, is an essential right given to parents by god. unless paired with proof of broken bones, shattered jaws or damaged organs, the voices of the victims of domestic violence are silenced by this horrible law. all the progress made by russian ngos that fought over the last two decades to offer more protection to women and children will have been in vain. the perversity of domestic violence lies in its intimacy and its loneliness: the shame that surrounds it, the fear of sharing the house with the abuser, and the undeniable hope that maybe, just maybe, tomorrow it will not happen again, put the victims in the most vulnerable position. a bruise is not a sign of love or respect or happiness. fourteen thousand women die every year in russia at the hands of their husbands. they all started with just a bruise. what can we do now? would political dialogue be able to reverse this legislation? can we support the work of women’s ngos in russia? probably with difficulty, but i strongly believe that we cannot fail them.
madam president, there are worrying signs of possible violations of the right to freedom of movement of european citizens in the uk. i made a list of examples in a petition signed by over 30 000 people that i submitted to this parliament. if we have this problem now, i am wondering what will happen after brexit. we have to react from now on, to prevent any abuse, because this affects not only europeans but also british people. too often, populists talk in britain about eastern europeans who come to take their jobs. anyone who believes that we wanted to see 200 000 romanian professionals – students, doctors and engineers trained in romania – leaving for the uk is really crazy. at the same time, it is these so—called bad europeans who buy british products and work with uk companies and will fight to protect the british people after brexit. i trust the eu and the british people will not let freedom of movement in the uk disappear, because together we are stronger. we have to give more freedoms and rights to europeans in order to win against populism. we do not need five scenarios: we need one good one to make europe a better place for europeans and british people, and freedom of movement is at the core of this project for the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened to members’ comments and opinions with great interest and i am grateful for this rich exchange of views. this debate shows we share the aim of helping patients gain access to truly innovative medicines at affordable prices across the european union. i would like to pick up a couple of points raised in your report and in the debate. i support member states’ initiatives to help reduce medicine prices and increase transparency in the setting of such prices. small countries have lower negotiating power and face particular difficulties. i welcome the ongoing cooperation amongst european union countries in this regard. in addition, our european union joint procurement agreement enables member states to buy medicines together under the same conditions. in fact, most member states will buy pandemic vaccines together this year. thinking about vaccines, vaccine shortages are indeed a major challenge. this is why we are setting up a joint action on vaccines with the member states to help them forecast and manage vaccine needs. last and most important, the report provides a contribution to our ongoing work on health technology assessment. once again, my aim is to come up with a proposal that has clear benefits for all, including, above all, european patients. finally, i fully agree with the need for a strategic breakthrough on disease prevention to reduce the need for medicines, as expressed in your report. let me conclude by expressing again my gratitude to ms cabezón ruiz and the shadow rapporteurs. our discussions today demonstrate very well the value of effective and continuous dialogue, which i trust will continue as matters progress. i look forward to our future cooperation.
in writing. – health expenditure remains constant even if the prices per patient of some new medicines are higher than in the past. it is true that during the debates on this report, the discussion on affordability of medicines was automatically related to ‘fair price’. but what does fair pricing mean? from my point of view it means one that can reasonably be covered by patients and health budgets and that simultaneously continues to sustain research and development. currently, the high prices of many new medicines are challenging public healthcare systems or patients who have to pay for them out of their own pocket (as is the situation in most low- and middle-income countries). therefore, we have to find solutions to overcome this situation by taking into account the economic circumstances and needs of the health system of each country, not by creating idealistic references for high-income countries in price setting, and highlighting the advantages of incremental innovation. we also need to address the additional barriers which hamper patients’ access to medicines, and which are not related to budgets: red tape and bureaucracy, lack of vision for the medium and long term, instability of legislation in many member states, unpredictability, and a lack of dialogue and partnership.
in writing. it is regrettable that many citizens in the member states do not have access to healthcare or medicines and, moreover, it is extremely worrying that thousands of people are dying because of the lack of effective treatments for rare diseases, as well as because of the lack of access to certain treatments or their astronomical cost. member states should support research and development based on the medical needs of citizens, with the aim of creating innovative medicines and generic medicines at affordable prices for all patients. more transparency is also needed in the cost of investments in pharmaceutical research, development and innovation so that the consumer does not end up paying twice for the same product. i believe that member states should cooperate on their own initiative, in particular as regards prices, reimbursements and exchange of information. i urge public decision-makers to take proactive steps to ensure that generic and biosimilar medicines become available in a timely manner to reduce in a meaningful way the total costs and expenditure for medicines, always taking into account the need to ensure the same benefits and continuity of patient care.
in writing. it is well known that access to healthcare is a fundamental right of all citizens. as such, one of the core goals of the eu and who, namely sustainable development goal 3, is precisely to ensure access to medicines for individuals (patients). obviously, access to medicines is dependent on the timely availability of medicines and their accessibility to all citizens without discrimination. however, there are still major disparities between public health systems, as well as between pharmaceutical systems in the member states, and the challenges posed by the ageing of the eu population. moreover, access to medicines is restricted either by pharmaceutical business strategies (profit maximisation strategies), or for political reasons related to the production or distribution process or even because of parallel trade, or because of lower incomes of some member states. however, improving access to medicines can also be achieved by reducing administrative procedures and budgetary constraints, by developing biosimilars and innovative medicines. the involvement of all stakeholders in the healthcare field (producers, researchers, patient organisations, institutions, etc.) is also essential to improve access to medicines for european citizens.
mr. president, thank you. we ask ourselves today, where is europe heading? i think before we answer that question we have to answer where did the european union come from? we all know that the lack of freedom, death, hunger, poverty and war paradoxically generated this great project. and today we can see that the union has brought us peace and prosperity for 60 years, which shows us that there has been no alternative to the european union, there is no alternative and there will be no alternative. a europe with concentric circles or two-speed will not be a place where adversaries and allies unite as the founding fathers of the european union wanted, on the contrary, this reconfiguration would certainly lead to the disintegration of the european project and that is why romania is in favor of a strong, consolidated and united europe. whatever solutions we pursue, they must be the result of consensus, and a strong europe is a life insurance for all member states.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the report specifically highlights that the number of projects promoting cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue and multilingualism among the projects funded under the creative europe programme is expected to increase after 2017. the rapporteur justifies this by the significant influx of migrants and refugees into the union. without questioning the importance of this, i would point out that these aspects should have been a major part of the programme already. not only migrants or eu citizens with a significant migration background, but also eu citizens belonging to an indigenous national minority of some 60 million. the promotion of cultural diversity and multilingualism is necessary not only because new minorities are emerging in the eu territory, but also because national communities that have lived in the same area for centuries have become a minority in the territory of a member state. and we can support these minorities with low financial capacity to preserve their language and culture by giving priority to minority projects, including financial support, in addition to increasing the budget for cultural programmes.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who worked on this report. i am surprised at the position of some colleagues, a selfish position i would call it because we are not talking about the destruction of national culture here, we are talking about a europe united in diversity and in my career i was the minister for tourism and smes and i have seen how much connection there is between all fields and culture. culture actually creates bridges between our countries, we know each other better, and that is why i think it is necessary to finance cultural acts because around any cultural object - my country has a very rich heritage, around it develops the creative industry, smes, jobs. and it surprises me again what my colleagues say, and i ask them: if they had a neighbor, next door, who i know nothing about, i don't know what he does, i don't know what he does, i don't know what his habits are, would they be safer than if they knew what that man next to them does? i support the proposal for funding, commissioner, because we are talking about a culture with a radiant effect in all areas of activity, and i hope that it will be understood that europe can be united if we know our values, our cultural heritage, our traditions and, i take this opportunity to say that yesterday in romania, 1 march, the symbol of creative art was celebrated - here is this symbol, creative art.
mr president, last but not least, i welcome the success of the programming objectives of promoting european cultural diversity and strengthening the potential of the cultural and creative sector, although it is important to call strongly for an increase in the seriously under-financed creative europe budget in order to bring it into line with expectations. i believe we must continue to support the cultural, creative and audiovisual sector strongly, asking for an increased budget for the programme, both to meet expectations and to avoid frustration, together with better management of the existing programme, with more transparency and simplified procedures. the creation of three new strands, on innovative crossovers, social inclusion and creative europe mundus, to include third countries, will feature in our objectives and priorities. we have to make europe first.
in writing. in an increasingly competitive international cinematographic landscape, the european audiovisual sector continues to need support measures to protect its diversity and independence on the one hand, and to protect and preserve the european audiovisual heritage on the other. by digitising film and audiovisual archives, this heritage can and should be made available for research, public engagement and economic exploitation. i therefore consider it useful to continue to provide direct support for european audiovisual production, especially in the project development phase. in addition, there is a need to extend vocational training to different fields and activities, to cover more actions and to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector. i also believe that it is beneficial for europe to strengthen actions aimed at promoting european works across borders and developing joint creative projects with non-eu countries, as well as developing projects to mobilise european audiences to increase demand for non-national european films.
in writing. i would like to welcome the proposals to increase the resources allocated from the european union budget and from the budgets of the member states to culture. europe has a competitive advantage by putting the spotlight on the huge historical cultural heritage as well as on the new cultural trends developing in europe today. if in manufacturing we have strong competitors in asia and other parts of the world, in the creative industry we have this competitive advantage, which we can maintain, continuously and fruitfully upgrade. a smart industrial policy cannot therefore omit the support of governments and the union for culture.
on behalf of the enf group. thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe for citizens programme is the only european programme that directly addresses all the citizens of europe through its four funding lines. i would point out that the field of culture, which is to develop the unity in diversity of the union's motto, is perhaps the most prominent, if we think about the funding and, implicitly, the importance attached to it. the report on the implementation of the europe for citizens programme is relevant and up to date. perhaps the only remark is that the report is too uncritical. the problems mentioned are acute: regionalisation of projects, isolation of eccentric countries, unfavourable lump sums in many cases, cancelled priorities uninteresting for some countries, low pre-financing in general and lack of pre-financing for twinning between cities. in romania, the number of applications increased significantly in 2014 and 2015, with around 3 000 projects submitted by each deadline. unfortunately, because of underfunding, less than 10% of these are funded, which obviously leads to a growing lack of interest in the programme at present. the lack of interest of operators is further exacerbated by the reduced funding for the project. the maximum funding is thus eur 150 000 per project for two of the funding lines, much less for the others. from what i understand, the national contact points want to extend their powers beyond the submission of projects because they are also asked for information after that point and, in addition, they build relationships with applicants and we do not want to disappoint them. the national contact points also want to know the selection procedure, how evaluators work, how scores are awarded and, in general, they want more transparency and cooperation. in addition, the national contact point in romania wants a different relationship with the european commission and the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency on a partnership basis, the current relationship is almost humiliating because these contact points are the link between the european institutions and applicants and thanks to them the programme is promoted. the european union spends a lot of resources not only money but also time or human resources in areas that favor globalism, standardization and multinational companies. by contrast, culture, education and, most of all, citizen projects are sort of grayed out.
thank you, mr president, europe for citizens is a programme with an excellent title but it needs to be well explained and managed and, above all, funded to have a real impact. i applaud the report and i obviously support the report. in the current context of growing euroscepticism, bringing the european union closer to citizens must be a priority for all of us. the programme needs to be improved, and funding needs to be geographically based. i am pleased that the two components of the programme, european memory and democratic engagement and civic participation, have become multinational and will apply by 2020. i support the rapporteur's concern that the european parliament should be a collegiate body, after all this institution represents the citizens - over five hundred million inhabitants, and we are directly elected to represent them. and i think that all democratic institutions, national and european, must not forget that europe for citizens is actually a programme that shows that citizens are the most important and our work must bring beneficial effects to citizens.
in writing. – the report has evaluated the implementation of the ‘europe for citizens’ programme 2014-2020, presenting an overview of the current state of play in the implementation of the programme and the main areas of concern for applicants and beneficiaries. the report shows the great interest raised by the programme and the low rate of success of the projects, proposing therefore an increase in the budget. the report comes up with several proposals to improve the programme: sharing best practices between members states and beneficiaries in an active network; changing the parameter in the calculation of the lump sum for travel costs to take into account the geographical differences and cost of living in the participating countries; training courses and workshops on the topic of identifying international partners; improving the method for providing feedback to rejected applicants in the current programme by involving the network more.
in writing. the europe for citizens programme is one of the key tools for strengthening european identity, supporting a culture of solidarity, tolerance and respect, and for a better understanding of the values underpinning the european project. in a context of growing euroscepticism, especially supported by a new wave of populism both within europe and beyond its borders, europe for citizens is becoming all the more important as we need to remind citizens of the benefits of belonging to the european union. the correct implementation of this programme must focus on building bridges between the european institutions and civil society, to be constantly up to date with what europeans think about the real issues they face, from immigration to social inclusion. that said, it is disappointing to note that despite these arguments and the sensitive context in which we find ourselves, the budget of this programme has been significantly cut in the current financial year. the s&d group understands, however, that a strong europe means not only economic growth but also solidarity between citizens, and is calling for an allocation of 500 million for the next mff, which would amount to just €1 per citizen.
mr president, could we have a vote in the house on all the amendments tabled by the marine le pen group?
the commission will now assess energy agreements concluded by member states with third countries for oil and gas, but electricity agreements will be assessed after they are signed, a system that is completely inefficient because it is very difficult to break an agreement after you have signed it or in the midst of political or economic conflict. third states with abusive or expansionary policies should not be suppliers of energy to the union. an energy-independent european union can take strong decisions and be less susceptible to the sensitivities of leaders who believe that there is a currency for all. human rights are non-negotiable - member states should bear this in mind when signing energy or any other type of agreement with third countries.
we want access to medicines and access to life-sustaining therapies and innovative therapies. we want clear rules against incompatibility and against conflicts of interest and for transparency with regard to experts working in medicines proceedings. it is unacceptable that the people who make or decide policy on the pharmaceutical market are the puppets of the big drug manufacturers. we don't want drug trafficking, we want to stop the export of drugs. for example, in romania, thousands of euros worth of medicines are discounted but disappear on the black market. distribution companies buy certain medicines very cheaply and sell them in pharmacies in europe where the legal price is ten times higher. this way, the drugs never reach the patients. we have an underground industry that violates the right to life, and we have a responsibility to stop it.
mr president, i supported this creative europe programme, which provides money for certain transnational cultural projects. i think it is certainly a good thing that, without adopting any european legislation, we support certain cultural projects which do not concern only specific countries but, let us say, a larger territory. for example, my colleague, ms šojdrová, has informed me that a major exhibition 'broken times' is being prepared in olomouc, czech republic, which will map the artistic culture of the central european phenomenon. it will show the differences and, on the contrary, the common faces of the visual arts of the visegrad four countries and the countries of central europe in general. this is an example of a project that should be supported by european money, because national money alone would not create such a project. so i welcome that, and it's good that the material itself addresses the issue of simplifying administration and removing some of the unnecessary problematic barriers that complicate the release of money for specific projects.
in this time of crisis, the europe for citizens programme strengthens the sense of citizenship and solidarity that we so badly need at these crucial moments for the european union. the funding for this programme has unfortunately been reduced by over 13%, and that is an obstacle, it was and is an obstacle for many organisations whose projects have been rejected precisely because of the lack of funds. this programme has the potential to come up with solutions to the problems and the questions and the things that are not going well in the european union. we were just discussing yesterday the options for the future of the european union, they go from, how to say, zero to ten or minus to plus, and we need to consult with european citizens when we make these decisions. we want to bring european citizens to the european union. there are no two parallel worlds, the european union apart, citizens apart, but we represent citizens.
mr president, i agree with the rapporteur that the budget for the europe for citizens programme is unjustifiably low. it would not be too far-fetched to think that the commission, when establishing the budget for the next programme, would accept a level of eur 1 per citizen, which is still only eur 500 million. the importance of the programme has been appreciated, particularly with the eu's enlargement to the east. i come from an eastern member state and i know very well that 40 years of communism have not gone by without a trace in our societies, we cannot pretend that we no longer feel the effects of this period. western europe has had just as much time to overcome historical injuries as we have, and this process has been strengthened by the clear intention of the founding member states. this is what today's east-central europe and the western balkans need: historical reconciliation, a joint processing of the past and a building of mutual trust. so this program is very important, so please treat it accordingly.
mr president, we are against this proposal because in the community of kahn al-ahmar, which is in area c, the buildings are the only things that are illegal there. i remind you that in area c, the israelis have control of all the territory and activities. the palestinians didn't ask for the building permit; they're using every legal avenue. the israelis have also mentioned that there will be no demolition until all legal avenues have been exhausted. so there is no point in introducing the confusion my colleague is trying to introduce. he was talking about the demolition coming in february. we're in the month of march. so, i repeat, the israelis have made it clear that all legal avenues will be accepted for the palestinians.
mr president, after the signing of the minamata convention under the unep aiming to control the use of mercury, this ban on mercury fillings for children and pregnant women is a natural next step. however, in my opinion. member states must go further and prohibit all dental amalgam. i welcome the inclusion in this report of the mention that national plans on phasing out amalgam should be made publicly available and sent to the commission by 1 july 2019. moreover, new products and processes containing or needing mercury should only be authorised when an assessment of the risk and the benefits demonstrates a significant environmental and health benefit. finally, there should be a ban on the use of amalgam in vulnerable populations. limitations on certain exports and industrial processes are also big achievements.
mr president, the report brings clarity to many things about corporate governance. the changes bring efficiency and effectiveness not only to companies but also to the community. transparency has increased and this benefits both shareholders and the community. shareholder engagement will benefit all parties involved. the clarification of the time limits will lead to the correct application of the improvements made to this directive. i want to congratulate the rapporteur on the final text. i would also like to stress that the new text also provides for the protection of data relating to the identity of shareholders. i think it ensures corporate ethics and fairness between the trustee, the directors, the investors, the shareholders and the community. we need corporate governance, but we also need corporate social responsibility.
mr president, it is so important to address this very important subject of corporate governance. in the last years, we have tried to address this issue from a different angle. it is time now to promote this subject of integration within european union policies and future directives. in fact, long-term shareholder engagement is a policy that should support the investors and shareholders investing in european union economies.
in writing. the financial crisis that erupted in 2008 also exposed the mistakes made by many institutional investors, including pension funds and insurance companies, by engaging in financial speculation and investing driven by short-term interests. the draft directive is welcomed as it brings more rigour to this important area of the capital market, requires greater transparency for institutional investors, by properly informing shareholders about the business model adopted, geared to their long-term interest. the draft directive also obliges institutional investors to rethink the incentive system for asset managers in order to promote long-term investments and better correlation with the structure of liabilities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject i am now bringing to your attention concerns something fundamental to the balance between women and men, particularly in the context of industrial relations. whatever we discuss here in strasbourg or in brussels, there are certain tragic realities that underlie the whole debate. if we miss the solutions that can provide us with a solid foundation, all our ambition for progress in relationships and gender balance will be in vain. it is not the first time that the press has reported on situations in which women who go to work in another member state, sometimes without a work contract, are subjected to abuses that are unimaginable and unacceptable for our society and our values. the most recent case is the one reported by the british publication the observer about thousands of romanian women working in southern italy in inhumane conditions. these women, in cases documented by experts, are victims of beatings, exploitation or blackmail, some being forced to have sexual relations with their employers. that's why i said at the beginning that we must not escape the solutions to the elementary problems. although unimaginable to many of us, up to equal pay or representation in the workplace, some women are faced with such a reality. women cannot be treated this way anywhere in the world, and yet these things happen every day in the european union. this parliament must now take a stand and i call on each of you, and especially on my colleagues in italy, to support any move that will restore not only the dignity but also the freedom of these women. we must act urgently against the real black market in labour in the european union which is causing so much controversy, problems and suffering.
mr. president, i have to go. in romania, a woman is beaten every 30 seconds, and more than 200 women die each year as a result of domestic violence. despite romania having ratified the istanbul convention last year, many laws are still missing from its practical implementation. the solutions offered by the state offer no immediate or long-term security or prospects for the victims. the police are often powerless, since the only way to keep the abuser away from the person at risk is by court order. in such cases, it would be imperative that the court examine the situation within 24 hours rather than 72 and issue a court order that keeps the abuser away from the victim. at the same time, it is necessary to create a legal network that allows the victim to receive adequate legal protection, even if he or she is socially disadvantaged and - most often - financially dependent on the abuser. i welcome and support the report's call for the commission and the member states to introduce zero tolerance for all forms of violence.
mr. president, gender equality doesn't have to be just a slogan. it must be a reality, and we are talking about gender equality in all aspects: in pay, in leadership positions, in access to european funds, in access to bank loans, in politics, but also in advertising and publicity. gender dimension must also be taken into account in policies to combat violence, including violence and sexual harassment at work, and here is the latest example, with almost 7 500 women suffering sexual violence in italy, as colleague pavel has pointed out. the promotion of gender equality also needs a budget, commissioner, and i therefore think it is appropriate to ask for funding for specific measures involving non-governmental organisations, local and regional education authorities. the gender imbalance can in fact be seen in the european institutions and i believe that we need to find ways of balancing both at national and european level. unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen a regrettable regression in the implementation of gender equality policies. i therefore consider it important to evaluate regularly and to establish concrete measures. gender equality is everyone's responsibility.
in writing. despite gender equality being an explicit objective of several sections of the union budget, being addressed in 15 directives that have been adopted at eu level, i believe that the concrete commitment to further mainstreaming gender needs to be accelerated, as existing policies have been implemented to a small extent and budgetary resources specifically allocated to gender are insufficient. i believe it is vital to promote the consistent idea of mainstreaming the gender dimension throughout the budgetary procedure in both european and national strategies, to allow the eu's general budget to be assessed from a gender perspective as well. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the european fund for strategic investments does not contain a gender perspective and if this direction were implemented, the european union could certainly use its budgetary resources much more effectively to act towards this very important objective.
mr president, the positive effects and the opportunities brought by data analytics are already visible in areas where there is energy efficiency, fight against climate change, transport or health care. it can help optimise businesses, improve public services and enhance the quality of our lives. when browsing or making online purchases, most people are not aware to whom they give away their data. no wonder that according to eurostat, 81% of europeans are concerned about the control of information they provide about themselves. as is the case with every new technology, the effects of big data analytics depends on the purpose it is put to serve. in order to maintain trust, it is essential to make sure that it is not misused, for example to deny health insurance or bank loans for certain categories of people based on their online search history. as the report clearly points out, it is up to us to guarantee transparency, due process and legal certainty in the processing of personal data.
mr president, the european union's data economy has been estimated at almost three hundred billion euros. it can help create over seven million jobs by 2020 if the pace of over 5% annual growth is maintained in the future. it is therefore important that we adjust our policies in such a way as to ensure a balance between the need to develop this sector on the one hand and the protection of user data on the other. in this respect, the management of big data must be linked to the five fundamental rights highlighted in this report: the right to privacy, data protection, the principles of non-discrimination, security and law enforcement. the development of the sector must not, however, be impeded by abuses committed by certain individuals, companies or institutions, and if these situations occur, they must be severely punished, according to a common set of rules at european level. however, the presumption of innocence for those processing the data must also prevail in this area. so the best solution is to invest in digital education and data management from a very young age.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i have already had the opportunity to say before you and as i shall have the opportunity to say again, i believe that effective and pragmatic education is one of the essential solutions to the problems facing the european union. in my view, the european union, in partnership with the member states, needs to do much more to support quality education for young europeans. only education, ladies and gentlemen, can give young people in europe the chance and opportunity to live a better life. investing in education, especially in the digital age, which forces employees to acquire new knowledge, is the chance for the european union to become more inclusive, fairer, more open, but also more effective for its young citizens. at the same time, it is education that will give europe the competitive edge it so badly needs today. that is why i believe that, first of all, european programmes and funds that focus on vocational training and education must be a priority for all of us. they must be supplemented and used effectively, and in turn member states have an obligation to support education much more than they do at present.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the current global context, when the leaders of the great powers are changing their economic and security strategies, the european union must remain united. i am pro-european, and my country is among the top three pro-european countries among the member states, but i want a fair europe, with equal treatment of the member states and citizens. over the last ten years, the european union has failed visibly in the most important area: social cohesion. the white paper presented by mr juncker shows a europe without a clear vision, with mr juncker showing an unacceptable indifference to a president of the european commission. the failure of projects of solidarity, security and social cohesion is due to national administrations as well as european ones. the countries of the east have been stigmatised and even accused of corruption and evasion, although there is corruption and evasion in the countries of mr juncker, mrs merkel and mr hollande. unhealthy principles applied to the spending of some budgets (first come, first served) have increased regional disparities. it is a crucial moment and therefore i ask the commission and the council to find ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of a two-speed europe is dangerous to the very existence of the european union. two different approaches, one for the west and one for the rest, will not create a united europe economically, socially and politically, but rather two europe: one rich and one poor. the situation will be conducive to the rise of nationalist-revisionist parties, for whom the dissolution of the european union is the main programmatic goal throughout europe. yes, it is time for the european union to undergo a process of reform, but a reform programme in the spirit of european ideas must be based on strengthening the democratically elected institutions of the union and accelerating the de-bureaucratisation of european commission decisions. perhaps it is time for a real democratisation of the union's management and it would not be out of the question to develop a new system for electing the members of the european commission and its president, which should also be backed by the direct vote of the europeans. if instead we give the population a plan that will increase the social and economic gap between the member states... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr. president, i have to go. the annual human rights report of the us state department contains strong criticisms of the situation of romanian minorities. it is important to see this in the light of the fact that it has been confirmed: the claim of the romanian president klaus johannis that the protection of national minorities is a model in romania does not correspond to reality. according to the washington report, the restitution of church property has effectively stopped, and in some cases, even re-nationalization has taken place. it also notes that the authorities prevent the use of minority symbols, including the szekler flag, that despite existing laws, the use of the mother tongue is facing problems in the public administration and the judiciary, but also in healthcare, and that an association has not been registered by the court because it contains the word szeklerland, which does not exist legally, in its name. many other criticisms support the view that the problems of the national minorities in romania, the 1,200,000 hungarian community, continue to deserve attention.
mr president, more than 7 000 women, most of them romanian, live in slavery on farms in southern italy, according to estimates by the italian police and published in the weekly newspaper the observer. extensive reporting among the victims has shown the severe abuse these people are subjected to in their desperate situation. as a romanian who has lived abroad for several years, i cannot accept this situation and see that only one farmer has been convicted so far for abuse, and the only solution found by the authorities was to open a motel for people fleeing violent employers. i wonder why there is no reaction from the european authorities, especially since these situations have been presented before in the european parliament. is this a multi-speed europe, where certain citizens are considered second-class citizens, where exploitation becomes normal, where no one speaks and there are no solutions to ensure a decent living? we must act now to make europe truly citizens' again, and the first step is that wherever in europe an illegal act, an abuse or an injustice is committed, we must react firmly and in solidarity.
mr president, thank you for the honour of being the last to speak in this house today. if the rome declaration to be on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of our european union will be about the vision of a multi-speed europe, then it will become not less than the death certificate of the european project. i strongly believe the citizens of europe deserve better. a vision for the future must not formalise the present-day frustrations. our common vision for the future of the eu has to build on our most cherished asset, which is our unity. we must rebuild mutual trust, giving back hope to all the citizens of europe. the eu i believe in – the vision to motivate my hungarian community in transylvania – is a union of the european nations and national communities: a europe of its regions, bringing its citizens ever closer to each other.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure ms troszczynski, you said, among other things, that it is easier to buy a machine gun on the internet than to get a hunting license. i ask you, are you aware of the changes made to this report regarding the sale of weapons on the internet? because from what you've said, it appears you don't know them.
mr president, commissioner, we have an important report today, which has been discussed a lot and has created a lot of controversy. but we also know why. some of our colleagues did not want, or did not want, to explain to the citizens what we wanted through this report. i also proposed amendments to increase safety on internet sales, labelling, stricter rules for gun owners and harmonisation of health checks on gun owners. the amendments have not all been accepted, but i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on reaching a compromise which is much better than the commission's proposal. the report does not want to create obstacles for collectors, hunters, museums, the report wanted to increase the security of citizens. the traceability of firearms and components has been better established by this report and therefore i believe it contributes to the accountability of those who deal in weapons, but also of gun owners. so i support this report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 march 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of ms simone bonafé, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2000/53/ec on end-of-life vehicles, directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment (com (((2015) 0593 - c8-0383/2015 - 2015/0272 ((cod)) (a8-0013/2017), the report of ms simone bonafé, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 1999/31/ec on end-of-life vehicles, directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment (com ((2015) 0593 - c8-0383/2015 - 2015/027 (cod)) (com (2015) 03425)), the report of the european parliament and of the council on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/31/ec on the environment, (com (com (2015) 03425) - c8-03585)) - c8-0958-0358 (cod)) and the report of the commission on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and the council amending directive of the european parliament and the council amending directive (eu) on packaging of the european parliament and the council amending directive (com (com (com (com (com (com (00) 0348-05-05/2015) - c8-05-05/2015) - c8-05 - c8-05
mr president, i would like to underline the complexity of the reports and the work of the rapporteurs. waste management and recycling, as well as avoiding excessive waste generation, are important objectives. i think we should take into account when setting targets for different waste groups and the capacity for investment in research, investment in education and investment in technology. i think it would be very important to develop inspection and control tools to ensure that member states prevent hazardous waste from being declassified through mixing activities. however, i cannot support in the report the exemption from registration of companies transporting less than 20 tonnes of non-hazardous waste and two tonnes per year of hazardous waste, because there is a risk of illegal shipments of waste. another thing i cannot support is the proposed targets and therefore i will opt for the commission's version.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 march 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the circular economy package should ensure coherence between the 4 files so as to ensure a transition to a recycling economy and to strengthen this transition in the long term. it must be borne in mind that the protection of the environment and human health is directly proportional to improving waste management at european level and the recovery of primary resources, on the one hand, and increasing energy efficiency and reducing the union's dependence on raw materials, on the other. the european union can reduce its raw material imports if it has a sustainable circular economy strategy backed by a clear legislative framework that can send viable signals to investors. therefore, european legislation needs to include clear definitions for the area of waste and recycling and binding targets. the objectives proposed by the european commission must first be realistic and achievable for all member states. if this is not taken into account, the eu will risk fragmentation of the internal market, which will mean uneven development in this area, which must be avoided.
in writing. – today we vote on an important set of proposals to increase recycling and reduce waste in europe. every day we throw away valuable raw materials and increase our environmental footprint, depleting our planet’s finite resources. such actions undermine our own policies on resource efficiency and simply defy common sense. while under-nutrition remains a severe problem in many parts of the world, we still throw away up to one third of our food. and it’s not just a question of wasting the food. there are huge environmental and health impacts of using water, energy, fertilizers, pesticides, and packaging to produce and transport food which is ultimately thrown away. i am pleased that the environment committee supported my proposals for a definition of food waste. this is a basic requirement for monitoring and reducing such waste, but it is still lacking at european level.
mr president, the european economy has slowed down, it is resource dependent, and energy cooperation with the russian federation has disappointed us, because russia is not a reliable partner and, in fact, many of us have known this for decades. we need to use as much as possible and waste as little as possible. as we heard earlier, that's what we learn from childhood. i voted for this report. it's part of the circular economy package where it basically eliminates waste and also increases competitiveness. as such, new jobs are also created. we need products that are reusable, and we need to eliminate waste and loss in the long run, not just in the short run. for example, the commission is aiming to reduce urban waste by up to 70%, and i hope it will succeed, and i hope we can all help it at home, where we talk to people, where we talk to the authorities and where we can make a difference.
mr president, documentation and analysis of the impact of the global gag rule has shown that the policy restricts a basic right to speech and the right to make informed health decisions, as well as harming the health and lives of poor women by making it more difficult to access family planning services. it has also been found that the policy does not reduce abortion. i strongly believe we cannot make any compromise on gender equality. it is the world’s poorest women and girls who will bear the brunt of any funding cuts. the eu has to ensure the effective implementation of its international aid programmes, in view of the restrictions imposed by partner donors. in the light of the current developments, the european union’s role in defending the rights of women and girls through its international aid becomes even more important.
madam president, our debate precedes the visit of a european parliament delegation to geneva to the un human rights council. in this context, i would like to stress three points. first, i believe that more action should be taken at international level to draw attention to the growing difficulties faced by civil society organisations and human rights defenders in several third countries. from russia to venezuela, to some of our neighbouring countries, and even to the candidate countries for enlargement, human rights defenders are increasingly threatened and prevented from doing their work. i would particularly like to draw attention to the plight of journalists who are often under pressure. to counter this trend, we must - i believe - sound the alarm whenever laws are manipulated by politicians to silence civil society or - as i said - journalists. secondly, i stress the importance of thinking at international level about the best way to bring justice to the victims of daesh and thus to judge the crimes that this organisation is committing. as the resolution states, 'the european union can play a key role in this process'. i would remind you that we are currently preparing a report on this issue within the droi subcommittee. thirdly, i support the priorities mentioned in the council conclusions and in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow. whether it is ukraine, abkhazia and south ossetia, belarus or iran, the human rights situation in these countries must remain on the international agenda. as regards the question of the occupied palestinian territories, i regret that a separate agenda item - number 7 - is devoted to discussing israel alone. this is not the case with any other state and it is all the more regrettable because israel is a democracy. a more balanced approach is needed to defend human rights effectively, and this will strengthen the credibility of the institution.
madam president, the european union remains a reliable ally of the united nations in the elimination of human rights abuses. last year was marked by bloodshed due to extremist groups. i would like to quote human rights lawyer amal clooney, who says "isis is a bureaucracy of evil" and condemn once again the acts of terrorism and the killing of people. if we want to help those who are really fleeing death, torture and abuse, without endangering the lives and rights of other citizens, we should go and take refugees right from the camps they are in, for example from iran, and do medical, criminal and security checks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a dangerous phenomenon of rising populism and extremism, which has the effect of fuelling racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, islamophobia and other forms of intolerance. without a firm commitment by international bodies to respect for fundamental human rights and the dignity and worth of the human person, we risk ending up in a world dominated by confrontation, chaos and war. the dire humanitarian and human rights situation in conflict areas requires the full attention of international human rights bodies. the european union will have to continue its efforts to ensure full and unhindered access for humanitarian organisations to conflict zones and to hold accountable all those who violate international humanitarian law. the european union has a duty to further promote children's rights, namely access to water, healthcare, hygiene and education, especially in conflict zones and refugee camps, to fight for the elimination of child labour and so on (the recruitment of child soldiers) and to fight against torture, trafficking and sexual exploitation. ladies and gentlemen, coherence on human rights at internal and external levels is essential for the credibility of the european union's human rights policy in its external relations with third countries.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the successful conclusion of the negotiations. we are talking about very important new rules that will improve food safety and help to combat practices that pose health risks. the food supply chain is often long and complex. that is why harmonised rules are needed to guarantee the same level of safety for everyone and to simplify this process for all involved. consumers, food producers, traders and authorities will all benefit from simplified standards applied consistently throughout the chain. the new types of controls will be based on risk assessment, thus helping to focus the authorities' attention where it is really needed. the inspections will be unannounced, making it more difficult for operators to hide non-compliant practices from the authorities. tougher penalties will help discourage those companies tempted to resort to food fraud. in addition to ensuring better consumer protection, the new legislation will also help to support those companies that comply with the law. for example, producers of organic food or food with a protected geographical indication, which have often faced unfair competition, will benefit. food safety, food quality, fair competition and consumer confidence are key elements of this new legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of sustainable development, in order to protect and promote food security and the good nutritional status of the citizens of europe, it is necessary to regulate risks to the integrity of humans, animals and plants, through harmonised rules on the identity, health and quality of plant reproductive material, animal by-products, production regulation, veterinary and phytosanitary legislation, but also rules on consumer information and fair trading practices in trade in products in the agri-food chain. of course, the correct and effective application of eu agri-food chain legislation can be established through official controls, carried out in member states and third countries, and a robust but simplified, transparent and sustainable legislative framework for their organisation contributes to the modernisation, integration and efficient functioning of the european union's reliable and coherent control system, thus giving competent authorities access to up-to-date technical data, research results, new techniques and the necessary expertise, as well as the most effective tools for the performance of official controls and other official activities.
mr president, the european union must have as its main objective the improvement of the efficiency of the official control system at member state level, so that throughout the food chain there are high standards of safety and quality which give confidence to the european consumer. at the same time, there is a need to modernise and simplify the instruments to enable the implementation of the legislation and to guarantee real protection of animal and plant health and welfare. the administrative burden on small and micro enterprises should be reduced so that the administrative burden is not transferred to a higher cost of the products being marketed. i also appreciate the need to strengthen official controls on the marketing standards for agricultural products in order to prevent fraudulent and misleading practices, but - and i stress this - also to apply appropriate financial penalties to discourage them. it is of the utmost importance to strengthen alert mechanisms and information exchange between national authorities so that any safety risk in the food chain can be countered by rapid action. at present, there are significant concerns in eastern european countries about the double quality standards of products being marketed compared to western european countries. in other words, we have the same product, the same brand, the same packaging, but a different and inferior quality of the product, which i regard as unacceptable. in this context, it is rightly said that cheese is sometimes made from milk, sausages may contain meat, and wine is occasionally made from grapes. moreover, beyond the mandatory labelling of products, effective mechanisms must be found to expressly prohibit the use of the name 'cheese' or 'meat' if these products do not contain a significant proportion of raw material of animal origin. otherwise, instead of saying "good appetite" when we sit down to eat, we might say "good luck" because we don't know what's on our plate.
mr president, i too appreciate the efforts made by the commission and the council to prepare the necessary legislation to combat tax evasion and money laundering. the urgency of this legislation is given by the fact that the member states of the union are still losing, according to some estimates, 10% of their gross domestic product, revenues that should be coming into the budgets of these member states. today we have good news: commissioner moscovici told us that the criteria for identifying those tax jurisdictions that are not cooperating in combating tax evasion have been agreed and he also told us that by the end of this year the list of those non-cooperating tax jurisdictions will be published. of course we all want this commitment to be maintained this time, because he himself, some time ago, told us that he would do it in six months. six months is a long time ago and i didn't have this list. so i hope we get this list, like he's hired. let's not forget that the main role of these offshore centers is nothing but to hide illicit income and also we hope that by the end of this year we will also have proposals for sanctions for those who do not comply - to stop doing business with these uncooperative tax jurisdictions.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, commissioner oettinger, i am bringing to your attention tonight the draft report on the guidelines for the budget of the european union for 2018. it is the report in which we, as a parliament, are putting forward our political priorities for the budget of the union for next year. i would like to propose two political priorities: number one, growth and jobs; and number two, security. i would like to propose these as priorities because these are exactly the areas in which the citizens of the union expect that the union will deliver: number one, growth and jobs; number two, security. how will we achieve this? number one: on growth and jobs, i propose that we invest more in infrastructure, innovation and research, that we support more smes, and that we invest more in entrepreneurs, especially highly innovative entrepreneurs. so programmes like the connecting europe facility, horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) have to be enforced in the budget of the union for next year, because it is only by strengthening the economy of the union and making it more competitive and more credible in the eyes of investors that it will be able to grow and create jobs. the second priority which i am proposing is security. this has two aspects, two components: internal security and external security. for internal security, as we all know, the financial means under heading 3 are very limited. so the question is: how can we have an impact with the limited financial resources which we have available? i propose that we strengthen the agencies of the union which have responsibilities in the area of justice and home affairs: frontex, easo, europol and eurojust. we need to strengthen them, and we need to make them cooperate better and use synergy effects between them. also, to improve internal security, i support the defence pilot projects launched by the european commission this year. they have to continue because, until now, we have spent money in 28 member states of the union 28 times for defence industries and defence research for the same results. this needs to end where it can. we need to achieve economies of scale. spend money once at european level and share the results, as is normal to do amongst partner countries. security also has an external dimension, and i would like us to stand side-by-side with the eastern neighbourhood of the union and with those countries which have embarked on a pro-european path the three countries that have signed association agreements with the european union: ukraine, georgia and the republic of moldova. they face a more aggressive russian federation. we need to stand by their side to strengthen their institutions, their judiciary – the independence of the judiciary – the rule of law, to fight money laundering and to fight corruption. we also need to stand by the countries in our southern neighbourhood, northern africa and the middle east. these are countries of origin or countries of transit for refugees, and it is for us much cheaper, it is politically easier and it is safer for the union to support refugees in their countries of origin. it is also preferable for them. we can achieve much better results by supporting them there and preventing them from coming in high numbers to europe. these are the main political priorities which i am putting forward for debate and for vote tomorrow. in addition to these, there are also small punctual projects which help different categories of people in europe. we believe in the erasmus programme. it has to be strengthened, but we believe that in addition to the erasmus programme, the interrail project – which was proposed over the course of the past month and which would enable every young citizen in europe who turns 18 to receive from the budget of the union a free 30-day interrail pass – is something which would enable people to learn more about europe, to practice the foreign languages which they have learned in school, and, in particular, to increase their chances of finding a good job. as we know, employers appreciate international experience. on this basis we would like to ask the commission to put forward a legislative proposal to enable the interrail project in a transparent, predictable and sustainable way without, of course, affecting any other existing projects. i thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to the debate tonight.
madam president, we are at a critical moment for the future of europe. citizens want a european union that is closer to their needs, more transparent and more democratic. the european budget can make this reconciliation possible not only through financial allocations but also through better budget execution. so, beyond the general outline, what i propose is to see what the effects of each programme or action funded really were and how european money was spent. the taxpayers need this. we need to rebuild trust in european programmes. that is why i strongly support additional funding for the programmes with the greatest impact: erasmus, cohesion policy, horizon 2020, without ignoring the need for precision, innovation, investing in young people, but also focusing on results, including in terms of promoting the european project. it seems unnatural to me that the british are unaware that they have been among the most important recipients of european funds for horizon 2020 or the efsi. any reform of the european financing system must take account of our common values, and i am talking about solidarity and cohesion.
madam president, the union's budget must be solid, with clear targets and real european added value, in response to the unpredictable times we are living in and to all the conflicts that have been, are and may be. let's not forget about the fight against populism. it is also very necessary to combat extremism in relations with third countries in the context of recently triggered crises that are escalating. only a budget discipline of iron can react and help us react to crisis situations. last but not least, i would like to mention the security of europe and the safety of its citizens. for example, the current budget of the internal security fund is about 700 million euros for all the states of the union and i think it's insufficient. it will need to be increased in 2017 precisely to ensure an efficient, modern infrastructure in all the union states, to fight terrorism and protect people's lives.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, firstly i would like to thank you all for your constructive remarks during the debate tonight, for the amendments which you have put forward and which in particular the rapporteurs of the political groups have put forward. i was able and happy to integrate most of your amendments into the compromises which we voted on at the level of the committee last week, and i am looking forward to continuing the work together with you over the course of this year in the same constructive spirit. i would also like to thank commissioner oettinger for sharing our priorities, for the positive evolution on the priorities which we have put forward, which are: number one, growth and jobs, and number two, security. we believe that the primary mission of the union is to support the economy, which would then be able to create more, better, stable, better-paid jobs for the citizens of europe, and this is of course only possible if people feel safe in europe, if companies invest, if people start companies, if they unleash their entrepreneurial spirit, if they are ready to move throughout europe to other member states of the union in search of a job. commissioner, i also agree with you in what you have said on youth unemployment, and many colleagues have also voiced their views on this. the youth employment initiative should continue, should be strengthened and should be improved, if possible, in the next year. i also agree that we need to make available the financial resources which we need for payments next year, because the operational programmes in the member states will be at full speed next year, and we need to make sure that we have the money to pay the bills of the union immediately, because there is no worse signal than a union which is not capable of paying its bills immediately. on this basis, commissioner, colleagues from the commission, we are looking forward to you putting forward a draft budget later this year which takes full account of the political priorities of the parliament which we will adopt tomorrow.
in writing. i think the part on internal challenges is not being addressed properly. it is noted that, in the current context, a viable solution to the migration problem is still to be found, also from a budgetary point of view. so far, this crisis has been the focus of much effort at the expense of other budgetary chapters, such as the cap. what are we supposed to understand, that europe needs money to keep an unsolved problem going? i therefore propose a first concrete solution, namely the return of competences on migration and border issues to the member states. this will be a win-win situation, as the union budget will be saved and the member states will have a harder say in the sovereignty of their borders. in conclusion, i consider it irrational to increase funds and introduce new taxes for european citizens as a direct result of the still uncertain situation of the migrant crisis. i do not accept that member states are obliged to apply and, moreover, to finance centralised decisions which are strongly contrary to the national interest.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, it is clear that we are in the middle of a tragic humanitarian crisis. we absolutely have to avoid a catastrophe in these countries, where 20 million people are facing hunger and drought, by all means. the number of undernourished children in urgent need of life-saving interventions has spiked against the backdrop of drought. people living in fragile, conflict-affected states, have to cope with national disasters and with the impact of violence and instability on health, basic service provision, social cohesion, mobility, opportunities and livelihoods. i believe we can still save many lives. the severe malnutrition and looming famine are largely man-made. we must not repeat the tragedy of the 2011 famine in the horn of africa. our common humanity demands faster action, and i urge you, commissioner, if you have not paid a visit in the region, you have to do it.
madam president, there is no time. we are facing one of the greatest humanitarian crises since 1945, when more than 20 million people in nigeria, somalia, south sudan and yemen are facing starvation. according to unicef, 1.4 million children could die by the end of the year. to avert disaster, however, the un estimates that more than $4.4 billion is needed by the end of july. despite the generous pledges, the un has received only 90 million this year. all four of these countries have in common the conflict, but especially the lack of reaction from the big international actors, who again don't understand that we can't hide, that we have a humanitarian responsibility. for those who cannot see beyond the immediate aspects, i remind them of the direct and immediate effects that the situations in syria and libya have had on europe. so there's no more time. commissioner, you have my full support. let's get to work, but let's also act directly on the causes that generated these situations.
madam president, first i want to congratulate the toia report on its success. internet and mobile communications services are developing at a very rapid pace worldwide, trends that need to be followed also at european level. in order to build a digital single market, we also need new technologies for transmitting and receiving data. i therefore support the european commission's proposal to free up the 700 mhz band. it is suitable for ensuring the provision of broadband services in rural areas, meeting the specific needs of distribution of audiovisual media. in this way, we can guarantee broadband internet access for all citizens at a speed of at least 30 mbps by 2020. given that mobile internet traffic will increase eightfold by 2020 compared to the current level, it is necessary to assess the possibility of having a uniform regulatory framework at the level of the european union. i therefore support the immediate drawing up of a roadmap by each member state. there must be no winners or losers from the technological revolution, so that european citizens can indeed benefit from the opportunities it offers.
mr president, 60 years after the treaty of rome we have a european union which is much larger, has made huge progress in integration, and has ensured peace, stability and growth on the european continent. sixty years later, we must celebrate the incredible results we have managed to achieve, but we must knowledge that there is still a lot of work to be done. ambition must be our driving force. vision is what we need today in our member states, and at european union level. we need to know that without vision and commitment, without unity and solidarity, we give space to those who try to divide us, to promote nationalism and to endanger the european project. unity and solidarity must always come first. i said that ambition must be our driving force, and it is true that this may result in some wanting to do more in some fields, as, in fact, is already the case, but our solidarity and unity [must] never be jeopardised. any form of enhanced cooperation must guarantee that openness and transparency remain open to others who want to join, without obstacles of any kind. the entry criteria must remain unchanged, with no moving targets for those member states who want to join at a later stage. only with this in mind can we ensure the successful future of our union. i hope that in rome we will choose unity over division, and this should be our major project over the next years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cock has not yet crowed twice since the white paper on the future of the union was published, and now europe at different speeds has been seen three times. we had four leaders who stole the start - the press called them "the big ones" and who were quick to set an example by holding a symbolic meeting that important decisions should be made in a small circle. the council and poland were deadlocked. finally, it was decided to set up the european public prosecutor's office, leaving out the countries that had reservations about this project. it's obvious that for the great ones the union has become a sham. the citizens see the painted fence on the outside, but inside the law only a few do. the so-called 'big guys' turn the union into a personal business and then point the finger at the eurosceptics. at this moment, i see that the europe of nations and freedom group is the only one that has looked, and looks seriously, at the project of a europe of equal nations, cooperating in terms of mutual respect for prosperity and peace. it is clear that, as of friday, the stars on the union flag are no longer placed in the circle.
in the debate on the future of the european union, there seems to be little talk of further enlargement. and it is also of paramount importance for the stability of the western balkans. we cannot pretend that we have forgotten the promises we made to these countries just because some people think it is not the time to talk about it. we have to keep the possibility of expansion realistic, otherwise we lose our credibility in these societies. europe needs a success story and the integration of the western balkans can be one of them. it is also important that the union offers a solution to reduce tensions between different ethnic groups, and this can only be achieved if the violation of the rights of national minorities in the member states is also addressed. in several european countries eu member states and candidate countries it is important that the coexistence of different nationalities is an issue that affects the daily lives of citizens, and the eu cannot pretend that this is a local problem that each member state can solve as it wishes. 8% of the population of the union belongs to a traditional national minority. we can help integration in the western balkans by setting an example for the eu in the protection of minorities. today, march 15, we celebrate the 169th anniversary of the hungarian revolution and war of independence of 1848/49. once upon a time, young men gave their lives for freedom, equality and brotherhood. europe's task today is no different: to create freedom rather than slavery, to ensure equality rather than second or third-class citizenship. and solidarity means brotherhood, that the western balkans and national minorities belong here. i'm sorry, mr. president, i was only here for a moment, but i've been interrupted.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, i attended the debate on the future of europe to listen to the presidents of the european institutions and to understand their vision. unfortunately, the debates did not result in a clear and unified position for the rome declaration. i prefer a lot of what mr. tusk said. mr juncker has disappointed me again. ladies and gentlemen of the european union, the eu is going through a difficult time. think of the 500 million or so people when you make decisions! do not divide europe! i am pro-european, but i want a fair europe. if the eu is to last, we need unity. we need a single european space. the romanians, the poles, the bulgarians are european citizens just like the germans, the french, the italians. think about whether you will go down in history as the builders of a strong eu or the destroyers of the eu, it depends on the decisions you take!
in writing. – the future of europe is today at stake. council meetings are good if the member states’ representatives understand the importance of their actions and of those meetings. european citizens and the media expect the declaration of rome to bring major change, to restore their trust in the european union, and to produce a proposal that will improve the functioning of the eu system. a lot of people are unhappy about how europe is working today. i am telling them that this is due to the people now running the eu, namely right wing parties together with populists. we saw that in the votes for the european parliament president. we need to democratise the european union and we need a new plan and maybe a new concept. i am seeking a europe closer to citizens, in which the european commission is directly accountable for its actions to the people. therefore i believe that the biggest and most important change we can make for the 2019 elections is to directly elect the commission president.
(start of the microphone-free intervention.) ...and scandals over fake labels that do not reflect the contents of the food we eat. so we don't know what we're eating or we're lying about what we're eating. this regulation, which i voted for, introduces inspections throughout the entire supply chain, from producer to consumer, including all intermediaries. these checks will take place at the external borders of the union when we import goods from third countries of the union. i also think we need to go a step further and respond to cases where food produced or packaged in the member states themselves contains false information on the labels and what is inside does not match the description. we know that this happens between member states too: meat is imported from one country and labelled in another country as if it were produced there and so on. so we need to regulate this situation in the future, to protect people's health.
madam president, in a digital age, the demand for wireless connectivity, modern technology, smartphones and future 5g devices is constantly increasing. by 2020, we'll have eight times more mobile internet traffic than we have today. this connectivity depends on radio spectrum, which is an essential but limited resource for wireless communication. so i support this report which basically increases the radio spectrum band as well, so that we have a globally harmonized and coordinated spectrum that can meet this wireless requirement. its use will support mobile broadband communications and encourage innovative digital services in rural or peripheral areas, such as electronic and mobile health services, based on mobile phones, patient monitoring devices and other radio-enabled devices, and smart energy networks.
mr. president, thirty-four lives lost and two hundred injured a year ago in brussels. among the culprits are isis militants, but also european citizens who have chosen to side with isis. nothing can replace a life lost and time does not forgive, let's not forget that. what have we been doing for a year? we have adopted a directive, the anti-terrorism directive, which also provides for the protection of victims and common offences for member states in relation to terrorism, we have strengthened - at least adopted - amended the schengen regulation to strengthen the union's external borders and some other legislation. it is true that cooperation between member states has also been strengthened: more data is now being transmitted to databases by member states. yes, we are responsible, we are all responsible and the member states are responsible if more lives are lost because of us. we don't have to waste any more time. the implementation of these measures is essential. the databases must be functional, talk to each other and be full of accurate, complete data from the member states.
mr president, i would first like to welcome the progress made in the past year in the field of security and the fight against terrorism. these are key issues: harmonisation of european legislation, reinforcement of external border controls, exchange of information and the fight against terrorist propaganda. of course, there is still a long way to go. the new terrorism directive, which we adopted last month, is an important step. we are creating a common legal framework, but also and above all a common culture. the establishment of trust between our different intelligence services will not happen overnight, but the idea that a european struggle represents a real added value is beginning to take hold. in this sense, i would like to support the establishment of a parliamentary committee on terrorism, as it would be a very useful platform for dialogue. our practices are not always similar, but our objective remains the same: the protection of european citizens. the top priority is interoperability of files, because we can no longer afford to let known terrorists from the intelligence services slip through the cracks. finally, the link between internal and external security should not be overlooked. a domestic counter-terrorism system, however perfect, will only be truly effective if our neighbourhood is stable. a strong commitment by the union to conflict management in our neighbourhood is therefore an integral part of the fight against terrorism.
in writing. – evaluating the state of security in europe is welcome, but reduced levels of illegal migration and a temporary reduction of the fighting intensity in syria do not represent a definite improvement. on top of the attention we pay to common threats like terrorism, illegal migration, cyber, etc., we should also address a longer and deeper time to threats posed by, for instance, the deepening of social polarisation, enlarging the gap between brussels and the eu peoples, which is aggressively exploited by populists internally, and adversaries eternally. after brexit, what the eu needs is more unity, not disunity. still, it is precisely now that the concept of a ‘multi-speed europe’ has been launched, adding to the divisions already existing in europe. the current troubles, which western european leaders complain about, were not generated by enlargement, as further integration has not been prevented by the new members; still, these leaders indicate that dividing europe between ‘core’ and ‘periphery’ would be the absolute panacea for all current challenges. has anybody asked what would be the signal sent by such internal divisions to the adversaries of the eu, or what would be the impact on the credibility of the enp and the ep in the eyes of those outside the ‘periphery’?
in writing. a year ago, just a few months after the paris attacks, belgium was the site of the bloodiest terrorist attack in the country's history. the nice and berlin attacks were followed by others, all of which dealt a severe blow to a europe built on the idea of peace. the new reality we face is one marked by geopolitical volatility and the radicalisation of political currents hostile to the values promoted by europe, which translates into consequences more serious than we might at first guess. in this context, we need a european defence and security strategy that contributes to the settlement of conflicts in the union's immediate neighbourhood and that gives our citizens a sense of security without restricting their rights. eu countries must accelerate cooperation in the fight against terrorism, violence and radicalisation, towards the creation of european bodies with decision-making powers in these matters, but also of a european army capable of defending our citizens in the event of new aggressions. the juncker commission's proposal a year ago is welcome, but we need to be even more ambitious, especially where action at union level can bring added value.
rapporteur. – madam president, looking back at our common endeavour to get an efficient and workable conflict minerals regulation fulfilling the european parliament mandate as it was adopted in this house, we have been quite successful. first, we have been able to speak with one voice and, second, we have been able to achieve the majority of parliament’s objectives. the vicious circle has now been broken. the importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold will have to carry out mandatory due diligence in order to check their suppliers and prevent armed rebels or human rights violations being financed by illegal revenue. the interests of communities and people caught in wars and conflict were our priority. the new regulation has the power to improve reality on the ground in conflict areas. we followed two principles in our work: first to help the people affected by illegal mining and trade conducted by armed groups and, second, to increase the responsibility of all stakeholders, including european industry, in a common effort towards transparency. the recognition of due diligence schemes proposed by industry associations and responsible sourcing partnerships has become the central element of the regulation. all industry initiatives have to fully comply with the international oecd due diligence guidelines elaborated to help companies respect human rights and avoid contributing to conflict financing. it is important that all companies, including those from downstream in the supply chain whose products contain 3tg, will be encouraged to monitor their sources. compulsory checks for the importers will ensure that minerals or metals sold on the european market are not used to illegally finance conflicts, particularly in mineral-rich countries affected by conflicts or war. educating the stakeholders and achieving long-term sustainable effects is only possible through an approach based on shared responsibility. the regulation proposed to you today will be very important in creating good premises for more prosperity in the conflict areas, and this will lead to more stability. stability in africa and all other conflict areas means fewer migration flows to the european union. to protect smes and to minimise bureaucracy and red tape, the regulation offers an exemption for the smallest importers, based on a threshold system designed to cover at least 95% of all imports to the european union. through delegated acts parliament will be able to keep control of the implementation. parliament also ensured that the commission will regularly report on the accompanying measures meant to make the regulation more effective. our aim was to create an efficient and workable regulation and we fully succeeded. now we will carefully monitor the update by the european companies and, if necessary, we will adjust the system, making use of the powerful review clause included in the provisions of the regulation. finally i wish to express my sincerest thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs, the negotiating team members, and all the experts, advisers and staff members involved in this highly technical and very complicated process. i would like to highlight the special support of commissioner cecilia malmström, who personally attended all the negotiating sessions.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, you said, among other things, that certification costs and that it would be an impediment for costs to arise in relation to import certification. but do you think the cost of these certifications is more important than people's lives? because we're talking about people's lives here, and we know what happened, and i want to welcome the report. do you think it's more important the cost of the certificate or the lives of the people?
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you for this debate and listening to it, i grow even more and more convinced that we have a good piece of legislation on the table. now we just have to implement this regulation. we have to make full use of all the provisions of the new conflict minerals regulation. i believe the european union has to maintain its leading position in the world as a promoter of development and peace. we believe that legal trade is good and that trade is meant to sustain jobs and prosperity for people and for communities. i believe that the new conflict minerals regulation will make a difference regarding the safety and prosperity of people and communities in conflict areas. today, more than ever european well-being is interlinked with stability, peace and sustainable economic growth in all regions of the world including those regions which today are conflict areas or war zones. there is one thing that i believe we can do immediately, distinguished colleagues, tomorrow we can show the determination of the european parliament to ensure a clean and sustainable mineral supply chain. we have hammered out an effective and workable regulation now let us show everybody that we are determined to make this first step. let us ensure tomorrow a big majority vote and then let us start this whole process.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, parties play a very important role in today's political context, and i am sure that all the european institutions are aware of this. the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and foundations needs to be revised and i am pleased that the largest groups in the european parliament have decided to ask the commission to correct some problematic issues. first of all, i refer to the 15% of the obligation to finance the budget of european parties and foundations, which must be reduced. the maintenance of this requirement will lead to budgetary constraints for european parties and foundations at a time when they should be active in countering growing euroscepticism. in general, european parties receive this sum either from national parties through the contributions of their own members or from national governments. however, it should be borne in mind that party membership across europe is declining and funding from national governments has been reduced in most member states. one argument for why we cannot delay the revision of the regulation is also the approach of the 2019 european elections, and a large-scale campaign can ensure increased interest and voter turnout. this also implies the need to finance the campaign of the candidates proposed for the office of president of the european commission. the financing of other campaigns and referendums with european impact should also be considered. in conclusion, although they are in great need of funding, european parties do not have sufficient funds. in addition, in order to increase transparency and avoid abuses, a member of the european parliament should be a member of only one european political party. last but not least, the requirement regarding the representation of the parties receiving funding in the european parliament should also be amended. in order to prevent fragmentation of the european political scene, the number of representatives of a european party in parliament should be increased to a minimum of three. it is clear that the resources that parties and foundations have to share under this regulation are limited, and hence the following situation: the more parties and foundations we have, the less funds each will receive. ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that parties and foundations are able to finance their activities while respecting all the rules of transparency in the spending of public funds. we therefore call for the revision of the existing regulation in the interests of both the european parties and the european union as a whole.
madam chairman, i want to support the initiative of my colleagues on the committee. i also believe that the regulation should be reviewed and that some of the points that my colleagues have made should be removed. there was a debate about the definition of a european political party that could be abused. there was a debate about whether an mp could be a member of more than one political party. these are practical problems that are now emerging, and even though the regulation has been in place for a relatively short time, we should not wait and let these problems go, because the rules governing the funding of political parties must be transparent, fair and their quality reflects the quality of the political system. but i do have one particular objection or one particular concern that has been mentioned here, and that is the issue of freedom of speech. the proposals to be examined include the issue of tightening controls on how european political parties adhere to the eu's core values. i am not one of those members who thinks that political parties that are sceptical of the eu should not be given money. i think they should receive money from the european budget as part of the debate which is also taking place here in parliament on the various proposals on the degree of integration within the eu. but those political parties that deny the values of democracy, the values of human rights, the basic universal values on which european civilization is based, not just the eu, those parties, in my opinion, should not be receiving money from the eu budget. so i see a difference between criticizing the eu on the one hand and denying the basic values of humanity, democracy and human rights on the other. in the event that someone does not receive the money, i still think that the refusal of the money should be reviewed by an independent judiciary so that there is no political abuse and that political competitors take away someone's money.
madam president, commissioner, i want to say from the outset that i support this initiative. we need to review the regulation on the statute and funding of political parties and foundations and we have found in the debate that our colleagues on the right have either not read the proposal or do not want to understand it correctly. no one wants this amendment to shut up parties that have other ideas, that are eurosceptic. we want, however, that only parties which support european values should be financed from the eu budget, and i would ask my colleagues if they had people in a company who were selling, and would advocate competition rather than company values, would they keep them, pay them, and budget them? parties have the right to self-financing. i also agree with the lowering of the ceiling and, more importantly, i think it is very appropriate not to have european parties with one member. i would say that three is a small number, but examine, commissioner, and take action.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, you know how much i appreciate you. let me ask you whether you are in favour of the idea of establishing an independent european anti-terrorist agency, with its own intelligence service, to better protect our citizens. after all that has happened in europe, do you not think it is time to strengthen our security and defence and to cooperate more in security and defence?
mr president, considering our geopolitical circumstances and the conflicts in our wider neighbouring region – be it in ukraine, syria, or libya – it is obvious that in the area of defence policy, europe needs a common sense of direction and purpose, and a vision that is up to the threats we face. establishing a common european defence policy would make sense both economically and politically. as we squander billions of euros by maintaining parallel structures, which weighs upon our efficiency, european added value is evident through more cost-effective capacities, more interoperability and more common spending on research. as regards political considerations, with the globally deteriorating security environment – including, at our doorsteps, at the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome – revisiting the ideas of the founding fathers on closer military integration in order to reinforce our security at home and act externally for peacekeeping and conflict prevention externally makes more sense than ever.
madam president, i would first like to welcome the progress made by montenegro on its path towards the european union. the sign of this progress is very clear: 26 negotiating chapters opened, 2 closed; another indicator is that the parliamentary elections held in october 2016 were successfully organised, which demonstrates that democratic practices are beginning to take root. i hope, moreover, that this example will inspire other candidate and potential candidate countries in the region. that said, montenegro still has a number of important steps to take. one of the most important is to overcome the culture of boycott and bitter opposition. negotiation and compromise are ingredients as necessary as confrontation in a democracy. the fight against corruption and excessive politicization of public administration seems to me to be a priority. it is also important to strengthen the freedom of the press, which unfortunately still lacks the necessary independence. as for us, i hope we will be able to respond properly to the progress and, above all, the expectations of the candidate and potential candidate countries in the region. i believe that it is more necessary than ever to give a reasonable time horizon as regards the date of accession to the european union to each of the interested western balkan states. i think that promising them a bright, uncertain future is not a solution and i have had many discussions on this subject with both mrs mogherini and mr hahn in the past few days. the commission's strategy must change if we are not to lose these people in the western balkans, because the russians, the turks are there and they are very serious competitors. we have seen, moreover, how worried those who support russian interests rather than european ones are here.
madam president, please. i consider it a very wrong approach that the report does not take into account the multi-ethnic nature of montenegro and its consequences, the need for equality of rights for the different national and ethnic communities. although the text mentions the preservation of the multi-ethnic identity of the bay of kotor in this context, this appeal should be made in relation to the whole country. in addition to the social inclusion of roma and egyptian communities, the fundamental rights of the serbian, albanian, bosnian, muslim and croatian communities living in the country must also be taken into account. when we talk about the countries of the western balkans, we must not lose sight of the fact that state borders and national and ethnic borders do not coincide, that each state has a large minority population, and that mutual reconciliation and the reduction of tensions are possible only if the rights of national minorities are respected. in many cases, it seems that the closer a country is to joining the eu, the less important these issues are and the less polite it is for member states to bring them up. but this denial of reality... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you once again for this report and for tonight’s debate. as already noted, last week’s discussions in the foreign affairs council, as well as the european council, reconfirmed our commitment towards the western balkan region. while the eu is not alone in recognising the importance of the region, we are in a unique position to help address the challenges, and the european perspective is our best instrument for bringing stability and reform, regionally as well as in each of the countries. montenegro has achieved a lot and now needs to find the political maturity to sustain the gains made and advance on the path towards accession. the latest opinion polls show, as a number of you have said, an overwhelming support for eu membership across party lines. montenegro is firmly committed to its eu path and the eu remains equally dedicated to montenegro’s future in the eu. however, as has been pointed out in the discussion and as is pointed out in the report, there is still more work ahead. montenegro needs to stay focused on, among other things, rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime, freedom of the media and public administration reform. we support the calls for immediate follow-up to the osce/odihr recommendations and hope that all political actors can take part in this process. calming down the political tensions, preserving the reform path and the creation of a tangible track record of rule of law will move montenegro closer to the eu. to a considerable extent, the pace of progress is in montenegro’s own hands, but we should continue to support and encourage them. thank you for this evening’s debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is another very important subject. on behalf of vice—president ansip, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr jáuregui atondo, for this report on the subject of e-democracy. it concerns issues that are fundamental to how we evolve as democratic and innovative societies, and it recognises the strategic role that new digital technologies play in shaping public policy and public services. vice-president ansip has asked me to make a number of comments, so i hope you will bear with me. citizens and businesses expect better services from public authorities, greater transparency and less administrative burden. despite many eu projects over the years to develop concepts, tools and solutions for participatory democracy, the pace of modernisation is still too slow. we need to accelerate the transformation of government and improve people’s participation in decision-making processes. if we can use digital technology to support an increased public involvement, that is good for legitimacy, accountability and ultimately trust in government. the new e-government action plan will contribute to this digital transformation. it is part of our broader vision for creating a digital single market. it aims to promote open and transparent government, as well as to improve the interaction of government and individual citizens. governments and administrations need to be open, transparent and collaborative. this means open data, open services and open processes. ict is a great tool to engage people, to improve transparency and to increase the accountability and relevance of public administration. that is why the commission recognises the importance of e-democracy and e-participation. it helps us to make sure our policies respond to individual and business needs and so increases trust in our political systems. the eu citizenship report 2017 underlined the commission’s commitment to promoting best practices to help people vote and stand in eu elections. with european elections in 2019, the aim is to support turnout and broad democratic participation. these best practices should also address e-democracy, remote voting arrangements like e-voting, and cross-border access to political information. they will also focus on improving the low voter turnout. in its report, parliament highlights the importance of all of this and calls for greater eu-wide cooperation, but we also need to recognise the challenges. political parties and elections increasingly attract the attention of cyber criminals and other cyber activists. this risk to our democratic processes is, unfortunately, real and we need to take it very seriously. for the dsm to work, our digital networks have to be protected. that is why cyber security needs to be a top political priority for us all, and it certainly is for the commission. e-democracy also requires equal, open and neutral access to the internet. the commission has always been committed to the internet as a single unfragmented space. our approach continues to be one where the internet is anchored in the defence of human rights and democratic values, where the same rights that apply offline are also protected online. we also need to ensure that everyone can benefit from new opportunities that are presented by the new technologies. recently the web accessibility directive entered into force. this means making the internet accessible for everyone, including the elderly and people with disabilities. but to make the most of internet access and for people to engage digitally, we need wide availability and take-up of high-speed broadband connectivity. that is why the commission has proposed connectivity targets for 2025. one of these is for all european households to have access to download speeds of at least 100 mbps. in addition, given the investment challenge ahead, especially in less densely populated areas, eu cohesion policies complement private investment and support broadband deployment to the tune of some eur 6 billion up to 2020, with a particular focus on under-served and rural areas. for e-democracy to be efficient and thrive, people must also have access to information as well as the necessary skills. at the same time, people who do not have the full means or skills to participate should not be excluded, which is an essential part of building trust. in its communication last year ‘a new skills agenda for europe’, the commission proposed a skills guarantee to help europeans to get more access to basic literacy, numeracy and digital skills training. we also work with member states under the education and training 2020 initiative to bring more digital skills to students and into school and university curricula. lastly, let us remember the importance of media pluralism and freedom of expression, values that are enshrined in the charter. they are the backbone of our democratic societies whether people are online or offline. media literacy is a key factor for people to make the most of the unprecedented amount of data information and views that they can now access thanks to digital technologies. so once again thank you to the rapporteur for raising these subjects in an interesting and important report, and thank you for the opportunity to discuss them so fully this evening.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate my socialist colleague on his report and, in particular, on his willingness to work with the other political groups. i think that we really need a broad consensus on this issue, because we have a significant number of recommendations that are contained in the text, since online democracy concerns us all. it is indeed a question of thinking together about how to integrate this unavoidable development of information technologies into our political life, but it is not at all a question of replacing our good old representative democracy with e-democracy. this is a utopia, it is for revolutionaries and we are far from being revolutionaries, at least in my political group. the epp group supported all the compromises reached in the afco committee, with the exception of the one on the drafting of a european charter of internet rights, based on the italian declaration of 2015. we are against it. i think we need to think carefully and we have the instruments to protect these rights with our current european framework for the protection of fundamental rights. another issue i would like to mention is that of online voting. i am pleased that the references to this now appear in the text are realistic and in line with what we already voted in november 2015 in the context of the reform of european electoral law. in particular, i fully support the estonian experience. i believe that we have lessons to learn from this and that we can eventually transfer this wonderful experience to other european societies. of course, we need high standards of data protection and additional principles of equality, freedom of choice and access to voting.
madam president, our group, the epp group, took the initiative to discuss zimbabwe exactly six months after the last debate on this country. unfortunately, what i said then only serves to confirm it in the case of pastor mawarire. instead of responding to citizens' concerns through political and economic reforms, the mugabe regime continues to restrict the right to free expression and persecute human rights defenders. pastor mawarire has done nothing but call on the government to reform and respect human rights. for this, he is criminally prosecuted and is liable to a prison sentence of up to twenty years. these accusations are clearly politically motivated and i think we all need to take pastor mawarire's side.
russia has created an unacceptable situation on the crimean peninsula through systematic attacks on the crimean tatar community, serious violations of the fundamental rights of the minority community, banning of medzlisz and closure of ukrainian schools. this russian policy is all the more incomprehensible, since it is precisely in ukraine that the violations against the russian minority there, the disregard for the linguistic rights of the russian-speaking minority, have been reported. we now see that a great country only cares about its own interests and that the same principles which it expects others to observe are no longer valid and binding on itself. it is important that the european union does not make the same mistake and consistently stands up for human rights, including the rights of minorities. we are also calling on russia and ukraine to account for these violations, but we are not going to leave them alone in their own member states. otherwise, we'll be easily discredited and therefore our criticisms will have no weight.
mr president, dear colleagues, more than 60 ukrainian citizens have been illegally prosecuted for political reasons. the russian federation, as an occupying power, has a responsibility to ensure the safety of the entire population and respect for the human, cultural and religious rights of the indigenous tatars and all other minorities in crimea. moreover, russia should immediately cease its prosecution practices and effectively investigate all cases of human rights violations, including enforced disappearances, arbitrary detentions, torture and ill-treatment of detainees. mykola semena, who is facing charges of separatism, is yet more proof of the ongoing repression and terrible deterioration of free expression and free media. finally, i would like to underline that russian courts are not competent to judge acts committed outside the internationally-recognised territory of russia. crimea is a region that will always be part of ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, i believe and hope that we all want to combat drug use. but not like this. the war on drugs in the philippines is being fought by extrajudicial means. using alleged drug use to kill seems inhuman to me. senator leila's case is clearly part of the brutal campaign against critics of the philippine system. the philippines is a bad example in terms of extrajudicial killing and we need to support the enforcement of human rights. we must do everything we can as a european parliament to secure the release of the senator and to combat any attack on human rights.
thank you very much. there is one more request, but my request is that we can vote on it, not open a debate on this matter. it was very good that our colleague reminded us of this moment and we take note of it, but i would ask you to continue to move on to the other items on the agenda.
i am sure that this statement has been noted by the european authorities and i am also sure that it will receive the response it deserves.
this morning, the conference of presidents approved a request from the commission of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion for a three-month extension of the mandate. the extension is necessary to allow the committee to implement its mandate fully and properly, as adopted by parliament on 8 june 2016, taking into account the number of documents to be examined, analyses to be commissioned and stakeholders to be heard. are there any objections to the extension of the mandate for another three months? i'm not sure. we therefore consider the extension of the mandate to be approved.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (for results and other voting details: see minutes)
mr coburn, as far as i know, only the scotch is on the rocks, whisky is not, but apart from that i am sure that this debate has already taken place. i am sure that if there were some discussions, they have taken place there. so under the circumstances, i would suggest that we move on with the vote.
the vote is over.
mr president, i would like mainly to refer to gender equality and women’s rights, which are fundamental human rights. we must, therefore, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health and rights, condemning the global gag rule and calling on the commission and member states to counter its impact by increasing ssri hr funding and launching an international fund to enhance women’s economic empowerment, by overcoming barriers in the labour market, and by giving women an equal share in all levels of decision-making. moreover, we must involve social partners and women’s organisations in decision—making, address the needs of the most marginalised women, and highlight women as important economic agents whose participation in the labour market can stimulate the economy. finally, we should support the establishment of an ilo convention to address gender-based violence in the workplace. i fully support this report and i believe we must translate these commitments into expenditure and make them more visible as soon as possible.
mr president, i supported this report which amends the draft regulation which essentially contains some form of self-certification or self-regulation for importers of minerals from countries in civil war or where there is significant environmental damage. i think that the system is very good because, firstly, it is based on voluntary action, it is not a bureaucratic burden that restricts the importers themselves, and it is based on the principle that importers, as companies, often based in the eu, should have an interest not only in profits but also in the morality of their operations, and therefore it is very good that the regulation contains the so-called list of responsible importers, who will be able to clearly say that they are included in this list and that therefore their business is not only economic but also moral.
mr president, thanks to our efforts, we have made sure that products sold in the eu do not fuel armed militias or foster human rights violations in conflict areas. we have also responded to public and consumer pressure. consumers want to be sure that the everyday items they buy are not fuelling armed conflict and human rights abuses. through tough negotiations and with the support of european civil society, we have ensured that the vast majority of minerals and metals imported in the eu will be covered by the regulation, cutting off a vital source of income for warlords whilst not imposing additional burdens on new small businesses. although this agreement is a huge step forward, there is still a long way to go to fully clean up global supply chains. we must remain committed to raising global standards and must monitor implementation efficiently to make sure it contributes to the goal of breaking the link between armed conflict and the trade in minerals and to avoid potential circumventions of the regulation.
mr president, the union framework for the collection, management and use of data in the fisheries sector and support for scientific advice regarding the common fisheries policy is a very important subject. i welcome this proposal, which introduces significant changes to the process and updates the framework for gathering and managing fisheries data in the european union. the new rules will align this framework with the requirements of the reformed cfp and simplify the existing system. it is important to give particular importance to the collection and transmission of data so that fisheries management can be based on the best available scientific knowledge. moreover, it is vital that clear, reliable and accurate data be collected on fleets and their fishing activities, environmental impact and discards, in line with proper standardised statistical principles. therefore, i welcome the proposal to amend this procedure for establishing the eu multiannual programme and its content, the functioning of the regional co-ordination groups and the procedure for making data available to end-users.
mr president the use of different forms and instruments of e-democracy will play an important role in our societies in the future. internet consultations and various petitions already mark important issues that are of paramount importance to a certain segment of society. however, in line with the report, it is important to highlight the existence of a digital divide and the fact that in all member states there are social groups that do not have either access to the internet or the technical skills to use it. we must emphasize that, however unpopular the politics, the power to decide our common affairs is still to be exercised through a general election, based on the principle of representation. in many cases, therefore, in the digital space, particular attention is needed to ensure that transparency is not compromised by the definition of the public interest and that the opinion of a more vocal advocacy group with digital skills is not perceived as the opinion of the public.
the period for explanations of votes has expired.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, our group supports, as you mentioned, the request to have a debate on venezuela. we would like that item to be discussed as early as wednesday, and not thrown out at midnight. we also want a resolution to be voted on in the second session in april. thank you for your attention.
mr president, there are various benefits of such involvement: it can reinforce civic participation, social cohesion, and solidarity. in an eu context, it can also increase a common sense of belonging. but it can also have a strong impact on the volunteers themselves by contributing to their self-fulfilment and their professional development. considering the level of eu youth unemployment, the suitability of volunteer action to respond to many of our time’s challenges, as well as the need to give visibility to eu engagement, i think the commission’s initiative would be most welcome. a well-coordinated and adequately financed programme could also enable the spillover of positive examples from countries with longstanding volunteering traditions to ones where such involvement is less developed. the new initiative should be set up and financed in a way so as not to have a negative impact on existing successful tools and programmes, such as erasmus and the european voluntary service.
thank you, mr president. commissioner, i think you have noticed from the debates so far that no one is criticizing the initiative. and i support it, it's a very good initiative, but the question comes at the right time: why are you launching an initiative that you don't explain, you don't budget, you don't explain where the money comes from, you don't evaluate, you don't say how you're going to evaluate this, because it's an investment and, in the end, from any investment we have to get something out. it's not possible to take from other programs, because if you have bread money in one pocket and you move it to the other pocket, you can't take meat, you still have that much money. we have to be clear here: if we don't budget, it's a dead initiative. and i want to ask you, specifically, what is the budget? what are the award criteria? how do you distribute them by country, that you said you supplemented national budgets, and how do you evaluate?
thank you, mr president. the european solidarity corps is an important initiative for young people in europe. young people are the most pro-european citizens of the european union. it is therefore important, especially in the context of the discussions on the future of europe, to develop such programmes that once again show the benefits of a united europe. but i have to say that i know a lot of young people who have applied for this program and their expectations, commissioner, are very high. we need to give young people in the programme the support and the framework they need for quality experiences. volunteering and the exchange of experience must not become a source of abuse and limitation of social rights. we need to have adequate and specific funding, and i'm in the committee on budgets and i haven't noticed it, for the recognition of training through certificates recognised in the labour market, for coordination with the other european programmes, for increasing access to the programme for young people from all backgrounds. it's important that we make this program a success. we must not stop at bureaucracy, but we must be very clear about what we propose to young people, so as not to disappoint them. thank you. thank you.
mr president, the launch of the commission’s registration platform for potential young volunteers has spurred a tremendous amount of interest among young europeans, including in my country, romania. yet this initiative could quickly turn into general frustration if the commission does not present a convincing and sustainable approach soon. in view of the high number of registrations, the commission needs to make sure that sufficient funding is dedicated to the initiative and that all stakeholders are sufficiently involved in the development and implementation of the european solidarity corps. we cannot reallocate funds from priority programmes, such as erasmus+, often lacking sufficient resources to finance new policy initiatives. we need fresh money, and we cannot create a new initiative which goes against well—established and well—functioning programmes.
madam president! the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings affects a huge number of eu citizens and is less known to the european public. not only are prostitution networks and criminal groups a cause for concern, but there are also very serious cases of exploitation in the labour market, a form of modern slavery. thousands of eu citizens work as migrant workers in the more developed eu states in very poor conditions, for very low pay, for up to 12 hours a day and often subject to sexual abuse. this is another form of human trafficking, where the labour of these exploited people is sold and exploited by others, all existing regulations are overturned and the victims' need and powerlessness are exploited. these phenomena, i think, can be reduced if the authorities take strong action against the perpetrators. i do not think it is possible that, in a given case, the situation of thousands of agricultural workers in a well-defined area could be unknown to the official bodies.
in writing. – the eu renewable energy policy is driving demand for biofuels within and beyond europe’s borders. this has led to massive land-use change in various parts of the world and can have serious consequences. the competition for arable land has affected food security at local level as well as global food prices. some biofuels can even emit more greenhouse gases than the fossil fuels they were supposed to replace. given these concerns, i welcome the measures proposed in this report. a phasing out of palm oil will reduce the risk of associated deforestation and damaging land-use change. and certification based on sustainability criteria will reduce demand for the most damaging biofuels. bio-based fuels are not infinite natural resources which can be exploited without consequences. over-exploitation requires huge amounts of land, water, fertilisers and pesticides, causing pollution, soil degradation, and damage to ecosystem services. a bio-based economy must be developed in the right way, because using the wrong sources of bio-energy can do far more harm than good.
in writing. the 2030 agenda commits the european union to promote sustainable forest management by halting deforestation, restoring degraded forests and substantially increasing afforestation and reforestation. this is possible by providing sustainable production and consumption patterns and practices to both businesses and consumers, in line with national policies and priorities. at the same time, palm oil consumption, expected to double by 2050, is driving deforestation of tropical forests, which means the destruction of natural habitats, ecosystems and biodiversity, as well as climate change. moreover, the production of palm oil infringes the fundamental rights and freedoms of those involved in that process. palm oil (dende), the most widely used in the food industry, is also carcinogenic, according to the european union's european food safety authority (efsa). as such, there is a need to intensify research and awareness-raising campaigns on the impact of the use and consumption of palm oil on human health and safety and on the environment, as well as research into the social dimension of the production, use and consumption of palm oil.
thank you, madam president. ladies and gentlemen, last year, on 7 july, here in strasbourg, i proposed that, in the post-brexit context, we take a first step together towards consolidating a homogeneous europe of 27 by rethinking the distribution of the union's institutions in the territory. at that time i made known to you my intention to initiate and support the relocation of the european medicines agency from london to bucharest and i am pleased that you are with me in this endeavour. i also thank the prime minister of romania, sorin grindeanu, for responding more than positively to my idea by organising an interinstitutional working group to prepare romania's candidacy for the relocation of the european medicines agency to bucharest. for those who still have doubts and ask whether romania is ready to host such a large institution, i would like to inform you that i will shortly make available to you a study prepared on my initiative and with the support of the european parliament, where you will find all the necessary arguments to support the proposal to relocate the european medicines agency to romania. thank you. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest data from the european commission on the digital economy and society index places romania in a surprising and disappointing position. the very high quality and speed of the internet are clearly decoupled, for the time being, from the full economic and social benefits of digitalisation. romania can and must take advantage of the digital revolution. this should be implemented at both national and local level. in this context, and as i have already put forward this proposal two years ago, i would also like to make an appeal from the plenary of the european parliament to the local authorities in my home town of oradea. i believe that local authorities need to work with the private sector, young people and beyond, the education sector and social partners so that the whole community can benefit fully from technological progress. oradea has the vocation and potential to become, among other things, a new it hub of romania, provided it manages to support an ecosystem conducive to innovation. as a software engineer, but also as an mep, i will do everything in my power to help. thank you. thank you.
madam president, i am issuing a very strong warning to the european commission. romania and the eastern european states should not be forced to pay the brexit bill. we have received with concern the recent message from the vice-president of the european commission, mr oettinger, who speaks of the need to make substantial savings in the future multiannual budget as a result of brexit. this explicitly suggests that the budget devoted to cohesion policy is to be reduced, in addition to the possible increase in contributions for the member states. what we understand is that the eastern states, like romania, would be double taxed following the uk's exit. so what's happening is not just a multi-speed europe, but a brexit at a premium for those in the east. a reform of cohesion policies would dramatically accentuate all the inequalities we are trying to correct in the european union. these cuts would be tantamount to sacrificing the interests of these new states which have very acute development gaps. the european commission must do everything possible to avoid such unfair treatment of states like romania, because the result would be the de facto break-up of the european union.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, and i would like to congratulate the emis committee of inquiry on its findings and proposals. i am surprised, however, that the rapporteur for the ppe does not agree with consumer compensation. i hope that is not the position of the epp group. of course, we do not have to de-industrialize europe. of course we must have industry, but it depends on what means we use to do it. we can't go by the principle "the end justifies the means". we cannot accept that we have to give fictitious, superficial approvals just to avoid being accused of working against our own industry. i'm an industrialist and i know what i'm talking about. the commission is responsible for finding appropriate measures for trade defence in relation to third countries which introduce products on the internal market which do not comply with european rules. but we have to ask for proper approval and we have to fight for consumer compensation. commissioner, it is now your responsibility to put the two reports, the investigation report and the dalton report, to good use. until you set up an agency, you have to take over these things, control.
mr president, member states failed to monitor cars for illegal emissions and turned a blind eye to cheating by volkswagen and other manufacturers in tests. meanwhile, the commission did not enforce its own legislation, eroding consumer trust in the car industry and putting public health at risk. after dieselgate, business as usual is simply not an option. we want to see a stronger oversight, in the form of an independent eu agency for vehicles surveillance, put in place to ensure that cars are not only clean in the lab, but also on the road. those countries which continue to block an independent and transparent systems for type-approval of european vehicles and the strengthening of market surveillance at eu level must stop putting the interest of their own car industry above those of consumers and the citizens of europe.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on type-approval is extremely important, as is clear from the debates we have and from the debates in the public system. as the alternative rapporteur on the opinion in the tran committee, i worked very much with the shadow rapporteurs, we met many times to find an optimal solution and compromises for the opinion given to the imco committee. i am also a member of the imco committee and i have thought through all the amendments from the point of view of consumer protection and environmental safety. firstly, our common view was that the system of approval and verification, but also of supervision and control, needed to be improved. secondly, we have supported and continue to support more stringent type-approval and reliable, harmonised and transparent surveillance procedures. the institutional framework for market surveillance and type-approval control, as well as consumer compensation, needs to be improved. i think that the report should be voted on, it is important that the market surveillance authorities ensure the uniform application of this regulation to give certainty to producers and consumers alike. this regulation should not discourage producers. but it must lead to fair competition and respect for consumer rights and environmental standards. it is important that this regulation improves cooperation between member states, improves communication through the market information system and i agree: member states and producers must be responsible, otherwise we cannot solve anything. thank you. thank you.
mr. president, i appreciate you giving the floor to all the colleagues who signed up for catch the eye. it's a way for us to express our position when the group doesn't put us on the list of speakers for the different topics we request. thank you again very much. i believe this report contains improvements, but we have to be more ambitious and equip the eu with a strong, independent watchdog able to act independently to prevent future crises. we have to think of a future-proof solution, given the challenges posed by connected cars. a clear chain of liabilities must be defined and the missing piece is a strong technical body, as budget-neutral as possible, for eu citizens, which is capable of identifying and supporting risks and failures. second, we should be committed to a real consumer empowerment in contractual relations with any trader. this regulation is a piece of the puzzle. i support the call for the highest level of consumer protection when it comes to remedies and producer liability under consumer contracts proposals, and a strong role to be played by the national competent authorities and the eu in launching actions against fraudulent traders who cheat eu consumers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 4 april 2017. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. pending the formal sitting. (article 162) (b) the following paragraph is added:
madam president, while illegal logging in my country still represents an immense problem and an issue of national security, i am glad to see that the eu in general is becoming more and more self-aware of its ecological footprint. however, our internal impact on nature is no less important than the one which our consumption habits and policies have externally. as the second biggest palm oil importer in the world, we are largely contributing to massive deforestation of rainforests that leads to wildfires and biodiversity loss; and, moreover, we are endangering the lives of indigenous people. i welcome the call in the report for the establishment of strong standards for sustainable palm oil production. our priority should not only concern bilateral relations with producing countries, but should also be to help create a strong international consensus in this field involving clear, transparent and enforceable regulations.
madam president, rural areas represent 93% of the territory in the eu and 20% of the population live in predominantly rural areas. these regions have a lower level of socio-economic development than urban areas. people living in rural areas are more likely to be exposed to poverty and exclusion, and the risk is generally higher for women than for men. these problems are of greater significance in some member states with a high level of overall poverty, where the poverty gap between rural and urban areas is even wider, as is the case in romania, bulgaria or malta, where it is more than 20 percentage points. the issues discussed in the report have great relevance, especially because any improvement in the situation of women living in rural areas would have a correspondingly high impact on the living standards of women and people in general in the eu as a whole.
mr president, there have been several notorious scandals in recent years which have shown us that poorly applied legislation, when combined with the negligence or even the crimes of some manufacturers, can endanger the health and lives of patients. the failure of hiv tests or hip replacements, the pip scandal with implants that contained industrial-grade silicon, all of these cases prove the urgent need to change the system that made them possible. under these new rules, all medical devices, including those with a cosmetic role, will have to meet the same standards to receive marketing authorisation. high-risk devices will be subject to additional clinical trials. mandatory unannounced inspections will deter irregularities and stricter traceability measures will allow manufacturers to improve their response in crisis situations. i would like to congratulate my colleagues on the completion of this legislation and on the work they have done. i think it will play a very important role in increasing patient safety and reducing the risk of new scandals like this. thank you. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, when we talk about medical devices, we have to think about people and their safety. in many cases, patients have suffered from the quality of these medical devices and i am pleased that the rapporteurs have supplemented the commission's proposal with the manufacturers' responsibility that was missing from the proposal. post-marketing vigilance and surveillance are extremely important and the value of the report is also in the fact that it provides for unannounced inspections. the new regulation lays down detailed provisions for the whole process with clear rules. i appreciate that there is a provision for genetic counselling in cases where genetic testing is used. i want to emphasize that this report introduces a global improved system for device traceability and follow-up and constant monitoring for rapid response, because we're talking about people's lives here. i heard a colleague say that the certifications for the devices are too numerous. i believe that nothing is too much for the life and safety of patients and i would like to congratulate glenis and all the rapporteurs who have worked on an extremely technical report, but extremely important from the point of view of the quality of the medical act and the health of patients. thank you. thank you.
in writing. – the medical devices sector, representing more than 25 000 companies of which 95% are smes, has not only become an influencer on expenditure, but also increasingly important for the healthcare of eu citizens, covering a wide range of products, from simple bandages to heart valves, and the most sophisticated x-ray equipment. it helps improving the quality of life of citizens by providing innovative health care solutions regarding diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment and alleviation. since the existing regulatory framework dated back to the 1990s, only considering the advances of technology in the medical sector there was a stringent need for revision. the new regulations on medical and in-vitro diagnostic medical devices will help to ensure that all medical devices are safe and perform well, and will make sure that all medical and in vitro diagnostic devices are designed to reflect the latest scientific and technological state-of-the art, but also comply with eu patient safety and ethical requirements. the rules will also improve market surveillance and traceability, and provide more transparency and legal certainty for producers, manufacturers and importers and help to strengthen international competitiveness and innovation in this strategic sector. i strongly support the outcome reached.
madam president, we need to change the european union's policy on refugees, because we see that it has not worked well and we see that the trust of european citizens in us has declined and so have the refugees. it's a mess we need to sort out. we've been through this, it helps us, let's get it straight. first, the external action service must negotiate with states in the vicinity of conflict zones to take in refugees and give them the assistance they need. secondly, i support the application of the reallocation. this means that member states, according to their capabilities, go and take in refugees from the camps they are in, after doing medical, criminal and security checks. this means that everyone will feel safe: both the refugees and the european citizens to whom these refugees are brought. the most vulnerable families and individuals must be those who are brought into the member states on the basis of these criteria, i repeat, on the three modes of verification: medical, criminal and security.
mr president, for too long the external dimension has been missing in the definition of the eu response to migration movements, although it is fundamental to address the root causes of these phenomena. i support the call for full respect for migrants’ and refugees’ rights and dignity, no matter their status. i reject any conditionality of eu aid on the collaboration of third countries on migration issues. we definitely need a common eu policy on asylum and migration to be forged in the near future. i urge the establishment of safe and legal channels for reaching the eu for asylum seekers and potential migrants, which would be the best way to break the business of human traffickers and organised crime, and i believe that parliament has to be fully involved in all current initiatives and their budgetary consequences. last, but not least, allow me to warmly congratulate the rapporteurs.
thank you, mr president. i thank the council, i thank the commission for being here tonight and i thank the commission and first of all commissioner georgieva for having succeeded in imposing this exercise, the correction, on the commission for the first time and having included in that proposal, at that time, a great many of the proposals of parliament. much greater flexibility has been achieved, allowing for the use of funds for policies that are now sorely needed. i'm talking about the youth, the migration. i hope the vote in parliament tomorrow will approve this proposal because it would be a big step backwards if there was a negative vote. we have achieved a lot of things, we have not achieved everything, we have not achieved what could have been much better, but it is, nevertheless, a big step forward. i hope the responsibility gets passed and the vote is in favor of this proposal. commissioner, you mentioned the proposal you have to make this year for the new financial year. i think you could take into account the part of this correction where they failed to approve the use of the money, the amounts released, because this solution could solve a lot of the possible emergencies that arose along the way. in 2014-2015, over 280 billion was paid out, and a lot of that money was paid out for projects that started before 2014. it is in line with the treaty, but this situation is likely to cause problems again at the end of the financial year with cohesion payments. if the money were transferred in full the next year, i don't think there'd be this problem.
mr president, needless to say i was one of the meps that was sceptical about this mff revision. not because it is not a classical european document, but simply because it is not responding to what europeans are requesting today. i mean by that: investment in job creation; proactive youth policies; instruments designed to reduce the development gap between regions; digital skills programmes; and the list may continue. i am not referring here only to numbers, i am referring here to the political message that the council and the commission are sending to european citizens by this revision. the message is that the eu does not have any new solutions. we seem blocked in the austerity mentality. we take money from one pocket to put in another pocket, hoping we will not need them any more, like the eur 2 billion ‘possible’ unused funds from the solidarity fund and the globalisation fund we hope to reshuffle. i am a former entrepreneur but also a social democrat and i can tell you for a fact that if you want fresh money you need to invest more in the things that can help your business grow. in this sense we, the socialists and democrats in the european parliament, want to help, therefore we support the plan to reinforce with almost eur 1 billion the growth and jobs programmes, like horizon 2020, connecting europe facility, erasmus+, cosme, wifi4eu and even efsi, but we need fresh money. we need to think ahead especially for the next mff. if we want to plan for the future i do not understand why we are only allocating eur 700 million to the youth employment initiative for the next few years. this represents a lot less than what we are spending as european institutions on it and digital services. two million young people, true pro-europeans, have benefited from the youth employment initiative since its creation. people do not have maybe the time to focus so much on numbers but they are surely focusing on the political message, and the political message that i want to send today as a true pro-european is that the european parliament is thinking about them. i hope in the future that the council and the commission will understand the need to go beyond numbers and start speaking to people directly about what we plan to invest and to do with taxpayers’ money at european level.
mr president, until recently, these money markets funds were a very important part of what we called the shadow financial system and they play a very important role in managing the short-term cash reserves of not only firms but also other financial institutions and citizens. these funds must fulfil three main conditions: to ensure the value of money, to maintain it, to have a high degree of liquidity and a low volatility. unfortunately, as some colleagues have already pointed out, the crisis has highlighted the need for a regulatory framework in this area as well, in order to strengthen investor protection, avoid the risk of contagion and increase resilience to adverse changes in the markets. this draft regulation, which i shall be voting on tomorrow, introduces binding measures for these mutual funds and takes a step forward in the construction of the single capital market.
mr president, i will support this draft regulation, as i will support any measure which contributes to increasing the capital market's contribution to the financing of companies by issuing shares or bonds. investor prospectuses should meet three requirements: they should provide the information necessary for investors; secondly, they should not become a burden for those issuing the prospectus; and thirdly, they should be applicable throughout the european union. the draft regulation responds to these requirements by a series of compromise solutions, including better specification of the information required, but also by a series of simplifications compared to the provisions of the directives in force, both for small and medium-sized enterprises and for those firms that are issuing additional shares on the market. i particularly appreciate the commitment of the european capital markets authority to make all prospectuses issued available online, free of charge, to all those who wish to have access to these prospectuses.
madam president, while i join my voice with those who express their regrets to see the united kingdom leaving the eu, i respect the will of the british people. i still believe they were wrong. it is a difficult moment, as we have never faced such a complex challenge to undo the deep ties that we have founded in our common history. however, let’s be pragmatic, as british people like to be. as chairwoman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i want to send a strong message both to the eu and uk. we are bound to work together constructively in the best interest of our citizens, to ensure a clean and safe environment and a high level of public health and food security, and to pursue our common commitment to the climate change. we will need to ensure a rapid transfer of our european medicines agency as soon as is practical, as is said in the resolution, because we have to make sure to avoid uncertainty regarding its future and limit the loss of skilled staff and their vital expertise. so we have to cooperate together in good spirit. it makes no sense believing that environmental and health issues stop at the borders. i wish us all the best for the future.
madam president, romanian by nationality and historian by profession, i am fascinated by your great leader, winston churchill. but today i have to confess that i don’t know what he would say about brexit or how he would judge the brexiters. this is a real question mark. when it comes to the status of the european citizens in the uk, the negotiations must be based on the principles of reciprocity and full equality among eu citizens. this means that we need to make sure that our citizens who currently live and work in the uk can continue to freely do so without any discrimination against them or between them based on their nationality. under such circumstances, we can accept, as the eu, to grant the same status to the uk citizens in our member states. equally important is the issue of security, defence and counterterrorism, where the eu and the uk are mutually fundamental. this is where we are reminded by the recent terrorist attack in london. both the eu and the uk need to be wise and pragmatic. this is too important an issue to leave a security gap for those who threaten our common values and our challenges, equally the security of our citizens.
in writing. the situation of the uk's break with the eu was created by populist politicians who have pushed britain on a path that can lead to a dangerous economic state and even to a little britain. the european union, for its part, has had to deal with image and credibility question marks. the eu must now embark on a path towards unity, communication and transparency, enhanced cooperation in the areas that are the challenges of the day: defence, security, migration, the economic and social situation. the european parliament must set itself some clear priorities: ensuring citizens' rights and the budget. there are british citizens living in the eu and eu citizens living in the uk, including around 300 000 romanians. the rights that they must maintain in the long term need to be clarified. as for the uk's wish to participate in security policy alongside the favourable conditions for trade, i think there is no link between the two areas. the agreement on economic relations should be concluded under the same conditions as those applied to any third country.
mr president, i would like to say that i supported the resolution on brexit, but i have reservations about certain parts of the text. in some respects, i find the text too harsh. if our aim is to agree on good cooperation for the future and on trade agreements, then i feel that point six, for example, which clearly states that the uk cannot negotiate trade agreements with third countries until it has ceased to be a member of the european union, that such provisions will not be required of the uk, and that they are too harsh. to forbid someone to negotiate something when the deal is not yet in place, seems to me to be a little bit over the top. however, i welcome the fact that the resolution was adopted today, that it gives a clear position of the european parliament on the future brexit process, and that is why i voted in favour of the entire resolution in the end.
mr president, the eu's brexit negotiations with the uk must be conducted without hatred, without revenge and with the people, the people of the eu and the people of the uk, in mind first. for them, we need to negotiate for free trade, for freedom of movement, for their rights, and let's not forget that we want to be together, as partners, as countries and as people. over two hundred thousand romanians are now in britain. they work in all fields, in highly qualified positions, they are bankers, teachers, doctors, researchers and so on. there are also romanians where there is a shortage of labour, in hospitals, in nursing homes, in construction, in agriculture. there are also many young romanians studying at universities in the uk. the british minister in charge of the brexit negotiations, mr david jones, told us just yesterday that he wants to keep the romanians in the uk. of course, britain also wants to keep its european citizens in the european union.
mr president, i would never have wished we could have voted today on a proposal to negotiate britain's exit from the european union. on the other hand, the will of the people must be respected in this chamber. mr president, even if the united kingdom leaves the european union in two years' time, it remains a european country and, in these circumstances, the social rights of european citizens, who are members of the union, and of british citizens, who are members of europe, must be respected. britain and the european union must remain part of a european social model, respect social rights. there are many romanians in the uk, just as there are many britons in the european union. the european social charter, the european convention on human rights, they are binding on us. on another point, mr president, i think that negotiations with third countries should be prohibited. we need cohesion in the european union and the union must not make this exit of the united kingdom a precedent.
mr president, a divorce is always a defeat, a difficult situation for both sides. contrary to the false promises of the brexiteers’ propaganda, leaving the eu will involve difficult decisions and entail possibly unexpected, and often harmful, consequences. it is clear that the four freedoms of the single market are indivisible. this is a red line for us. we will not allow a future relationship that damages the integrity of the single market or lowers european legal, social, environmental and health standards. we want, at the same time, to ensure an orderly brexit. we want the negotiations to be fair and in the interests of european and uk citizens, the future relationship with the uk to be balanced and comprehensive, and for the united kingdom to remain a close political, economic and strategic partner of the european union.
mr president, almost a year since the uk referendum, a period in which the eu was only a bystander to the phony war on brexit, the start of the exit negotiations themselves comes as a sort of relief. the start of open, honest and transparent discussions between the two partners was long overdue. euphemisms used for a radical departure, be it a ‘clean exit’ or ‘a new partnership with europe’ might have made possible until now to mask for many the hard choices and trade-offs of the negotiations to come. but now the time is slowly coming for the cake proverb to be put to the test, the lies written on buses to be exposed, and promises of libertarian utopias to have their first contact with reality. but the need to come to terms with what an idealistic notion of undiluted ‘control’ in a vastly interconnected world really means, as opposed to true influence and significance, is not limited to britain, but applies to the eu too.
mr president, we voted today for on an important regulation that will finally, four years after the initial proposal, regulate a big portion of the so-called shadow banking system, money market funds. i strongly supported the report, as these money market funds are important in providing financing to financial institutions, corporations and governments. because of the financial crisis in europe, these funds confronted problems of liquidity and stability. that is why a debate started on how to make them more shock-resistant. i definitely support the european commission proposal for new rules on money market funds aiming to improve the ability of these funds to, where possible, reduce pressure on them by boosting their liquidity profile, and increase their stability by means of the five initiatives mentioned in the report.
mr president, the first years of implementation of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 have presented the union with major security and humanitarian challenges and have called for rapid and comprehensive measures of budgetary flexibility, precisely to respond to these crises. the emergency aid reserves have also been activated and the financial flexibility instrument has been used. i understand the urgency of certain budgetary measures, but i have a few questions: do we have a clear budget plan for 2018-2020? we don't have one. and brexit will have a major impact on that clarity or lack of clarity with respect to the 2018-2020 budget. next: how has the commission ensured that we have transparent payments? do they ensure that all expenditure is systematically reported, that it is transparent, that we only spend what is strictly necessary, because it is the citizens' money?
madam president, fake news, hate and lies spread by the waves, xenophobic and populist discourse are tools of dictatorship and the cynicism of oligarchs and hypocrites. some political leaders want a europe divided and made up of island countries, surrounded by high and opaque walls, created by disinformation and lies, walls through which nothing can go in and nothing can go out, but only what these leaders want to convey to those they actually keep in prison. the machines of fabrication and dissemination of fake news are paving the way for extremism and putinism in europe. i will refer particularly to the influence of the russian federation and the hatred and propaganda made by the russian federation. we must explicitly acknowledge at eu level that the russian federation is the main source of the hostile disinformation war and therefore call on the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to stop putin's actions against the european union.
madam president, the title of this debate has struck me, because when we talk about fake news, we are simply talking about lies. i'm afraid we must not be afraid to call things by their right names. the practice of hate speech, populist arguments and lies is not new. i come from a country that has had this experience under communism. what is new is indeed the use of social media. otherwise, the objective of terrorist groups and extremist political parties is the same as that of totalitarian regimes in the past, namely to establish authoritarian regimes and thus to revive totalitarian practices. the attacks that have brutally struck europe have made us aware of the need to work together to counter terrorist propaganda. the task is not easy because, despite the goodwill of social media companies, it is very difficult to identify such messages and remove them in time. the european union has made a significant effort with the establishment of the stratcom task force to combat the hate messages of the islamic state group, but for our actions to have a real impact, we need to provide this structure with real means. a few months ago we adopted a report on the union's strategic communication in this area and one thing is clear: effective communication will not be enough, we must invest in education, awareness-raising and, above all, in freedom of the press. this freedom is essential to fight against these lies.
in writing. – fake news or, as it likes to call itself, ‘alternative news’, is not news. yet today the scale of this phenomenon is astounding. how does it sustain itself? let’s follow the money! journalists found fake news websites, fake products, promoted by fake photos, fake names and fake statements and advertising agencies. all of them getting real money from gullible readers and buyers and all connected through ownership. we are talking about a huge audience and a system that produces countless financial resources. underneath there is a whole machinery which goes much deeper than just a room with internet trolls, somewhere in moscow. are we worried? apparently some of us are not. someone asked here today: ‘who can have the authority to say what is true and what is false’. this gives credit to something that is both junk and malicious. later i heard ‘who has the right to remove or censor the information’. a piece of junk becomes ‘information’ and later ‘freedom of speech and opinion’. that is both irresponsible and dangerous. the eu must build, as soon as possible, an institutional and legal framework capable to create the specific antibodies needed to protect european citizens from this disease.
in writing. hate speech, populism and fake news are three phenomena that have seen a worrying rise in recent years. eu citizens are increasingly exposed to disinformation and propaganda campaigns, and as we have already seen with brexit, they seem to be working. this should concern us and we should take a firm stand against those who deliberately misinform. as we approach two very important elections in france and germany, it is important that we remain vigilant and not allow the debates to be hijacked by people and organizations that are betting on hate and fear to win. we need to punish hate speech, including anti-semitism and anti-islamism, and fake news, drastically. at the same time, in order to prevent the spread of false information, i support the strengthening of media institutions so that they are objective, impartial and independent. i express my support for investments in all member states to raise awareness and education, including the use of digital platforms. this would allow citizens to critically analyse the media content and information they access on the internet, contributing to personal, national and european security.
in writing. in the era of 'post-truth', as some have summarised the historic moment we are living through due to the instrumentalisation of the internet, it is becoming a priority for the eu to combat fake news, so-called alternative sources of information and the propaganda avalanche. as a rule, the information chaos and media intoxication work in the interest of extremist, anti-european forces hostile to the integration and peaceful project of the european union. social media is the main source of information for a third of young europeans. that is why illegal content online, fake news and hate speech must be tackled firmly and effectively. human, technical and financial resources appropriate to the scale of the challenge are required. and in this regard, i draw attention to two major crises that have been fuelled by new technologies: the recruitment of jihadists and the coordination of terrorist attacks by the islamic state, and the information war launched by russia against the eu. combating hostile propaganda and providing citizens with accurate information are strategic obligations in this hostile context.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, today we have a joy, alongside the sadness of the brexit debate: something that is very much expected, although the regulation provided for the elimination of tariffs in 2015. we hope that is the case if we can be united in voting on this report tomorrow. the commission also has to develop a sustainability mechanism, which has to be implemented by the end of the year for some exceptional derogations, and i am sure that it will do so. finally a normal for a communication at home rate with family, with employees in the company, when we travel. consumers were not protected, because they had no way of checking what price was being charged in a particular country. if the report is adopted, we will enter a normalcy and adequate and uniform consumer protection in the internal market. the market will be more dynamic and everyone has something to gain. i congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague, our colleague, mrs miapetra, and i hope, commissioner, that the monitoring will continue and that we will reach a normal situation and a single market in this area too.
in writing. the debate on 'wholesale roaming' is natural in the context of the european union's aim to eliminate roaming charges by 15 june 2017. we, the policy-makers, must take the interests of the citizens first and foremost into account, and at this moment the interest of european citizens is to have zero costs when travelling to any member state. citizens want to see the european union take more interest and propose more concrete solutions to their everyday problems, sometimes even at the expense of their private or national interests. national wholesale roaming markets should therefore be competitive and offer wholesale roaming charges that allow operators to offer retail roaming services in a sustainable manner without additional costs. the solution i propose is to regulate all aspects of wholesale roaming at european level, either by keeping the current tariffs or by deciding together to substantially reduce them, with the main aim of completely eliminating costs for ordinary citizens by implementing the 'roam like at home' (rlah) rules.
mr president, ukraine is a special partner for the eu, not only because it is a very important country in our eastern partnership, but also because of the way the ukrainian people were outstandingly clear in showing their support for european values. i have to say that many doubts could be cast on how the eu has actually reacted following the euromaidan, but what matters today is the result. better late than never, the moment has finally come to grant visa liberalisation to ukrainian citizens. this is the minimum reward the eu can grant for their attachment and loyalty to the eu and european values. we need to praise ukraine for managing to undertake the necessary reforms in an extremely difficult environment – i would say wartime – imposed by russia, considering that it has to dedicate great efforts and resources to a conflict that is in fact a direct consequence of the european choice that the ukrainian citizens have made. now that the time has come for the free visa regime, i hope that the next step can be the ratification by the dutch senate of the eu—ukrainian association agreement. we cannot allow such an important agreement – another sign of reciprocal commitment between the eu and ukraine – to continue to remain under a big question mark. ukraine desperately needs and deserves, first and foremost, our support to end the conflict in eastern ukraine and to preserve its territorial integrity, which was not only challenged but destroyed by russia. but they also need to advance reforms in several fields to enhance their economy, and it is evident that to do so they need clear and tangible signs from our side.
i think it is a very important signal that the report draws attention to the need for concrete measures to create social cohesion among the different ethnic, national and religious communities in macedonia. it is a common mistake for international organisations to blindly monitor the debates between national communities and to wait for the tensions to abate on their own. the report suggests that the right approach is to set up joint expert committees on history and education with neighbouring countries, which would contribute to an objective, fact-based interpretation of history. the problem is that in europe, especially in the eastern half of it, nations have different definitions of objective historical facts. you can criticize this phenomenon, but it's a fact. the historic reconciliation that took place in the western half of the continent after world war ii is still in progress in the former socialist countries. this has implications for the whole of the european union.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, i'm surprised that you didn't listen to our president's appeal for human rights and the provisions of the un charter. you say the roma are to blame for being in this situation. personally, what have you done, you are an mep, what have you done to integrate roma in italy, for their education, to be able to attend school? what child wouldn't want to eat, what mother wouldn't want to have a well-dressed and well-educated child? and roma mothers are still mothers, ma'am!
madam president! i welcome the fact that in recent years the situation of roma has been at the centre of eu attention and that in 2013 a council recommendation was adopted requiring member states to develop national roma integration strategies. the commission's 2015 review is welcome to find a clear improvement in the coherence between the current roma integration strategies and the union instruments. however, in many countries, despite the existing frameworks and measures, roma continue to suffer from discrimination, marginalisation and segregation. in romania, where most of the measures have been taken to reduce the rate of early school leavers, most roma remain cumulatively disadvantaged and a very large proportion of them continue to live in exclusion and extreme poverty. i therefore see the need for further, consistent action to improve the opportunities for outbreaks and to end the intergenerational transmission of poverty and exclusion.
in writing. all people should enjoy the same rights, freedoms and treatment. the roma are a minority like any other minority and no longer should there be any distinction between minorities or between minorities and the majority of the population. personally, i think we need proper laws and proper enforcement. the roma have certain vocations and must be helped. i think we can't end segregation as long as the programs funded by the eu or national budgets are formal and as long as we have segregation by law. for example, there are parties based on ethnicity, which makes segregation worse. i'm advocating a law that doesn't allow the creation of a party on the basis of ethnicity, whatever it is. citizens of a country can be members of a party and can be elected. education is deficient. the roma ethnicity must be included in the form of schooling common to the majority of the population, not separately. i voted and supported roma citizens for the national and european parliament. romania has roma citizens in both the national and european parliaments.
in writing. i salute the international roma day and wish this ancient people to regain their dignity and pride among the peoples of europe. i also welcome the initiative of my fellow meps to put three questions to the commission and the council on the measures taken at european level to include roma and combat discrimination against them. but when we talk about integration, we must emphasise that it requires a mutual effort. i am convinced that the majority, the institutions of the member states and the european institutions can and must do more to integrate roma and combat discrimination. but even if the majority and the institutions of the state become, overnight, ideal, the condition of the roma cannot be improved without a sustained effort of empowerment and self-education on their part. i would like to see more, more active, more responsible roma organisations involved in educating, integrating and promoting roma. i would like more roma people, and especially their leaders, to follow john fitzgerald kennedy's advice: "don't think about what your country can do for you, think about what you can do for your country!" equality or non-discrimination is asserted by laws, but prestige and respect are earned only through one's own efforts.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, after the attack in st petersburg, we are of course in solidarity with the russian people and especially with the families of the victims. we also feel solidarity with the thousands of people who took to the streets of several russian cities in late march and early april to show their disagreement with the corruption that affects many leaders in moscow, leaders who enjoy total impunity, because the judiciary is under putin's control. the russian citizens are not blind, they decided to act taking all the risks, as it was said, two thousand arrests. of course, as indrek tarand pointed out earlier, which putin is arguing, the fact that children are being paid to march is ridiculous. unfortunately, i have to tell you that this rhetoric was also used by a government in the european union, the social democratic government in romania, which said the same thing about the recent protests in bucharest and other cities in the country. here's the relationship between russia and one of the countries in the union. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, i want to ask you if you do not think that the european union should take a very strong position, asking russia if it still considers itself part of the international community, because russia does not respect international treaties and international agreements to which it is a party on human and citizen rights, and at the same time do not you think that the european union should have a strong position on the situation of mr navalny, who we hope will not have the same fate as mr nemtsov?
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. i thought mr. frunzulica was asking me what we could do with the socialist government in bucharest. his questions are almost rhetorical. the more serious issue is that here in the security council, russia blocked yesterday a resolution introduced by a member state of the union, france, and the us administration, because after the chemical attack in syria there is a need to act immediately. we remember that in 2013 the question of intervening if a chemical attack occurs was raised for the first time.
mr. president, the putin regime is laundering money but it's also brainwashing through kafkaesque propaganda. the putin regime murders and imprisons free people and imprisons political opponents. the russian "laundromat" laundered $20 billion between 2010 and 2014 alone, involving a cousin of putin, involving companies and money and individuals in the russian federation, and also involving offshore and european companies. free people who protested against corruption were detained, subjected to acts of violence. a top university in st. petersburg was stripped of its license two weeks ago because, right, education creates free people and a dictatorship is not based on free people. that's why i'm wondering: was the st. petersburg bombing real or was it staged? because the death of 14 people means nothing to putin to maintain his dictatorship. it must be very clear to all of us, it is a dictatorship with which we have no other way to talk than from democracy to dictatorship, no other negotiation will succeed.
mr president, i want to support the motion for a resolution which i feel is very balanced and correct. we strongly condemn the putin regime's crackdown on peaceful protesters who have pointed to the vast corruption within russia's ruling oligarchy. it is quite clear that at this moment in russia the basic constitutional human freedoms freedom of assembly, freedom of speech do not apply and it is also quite clear that the judiciary there is not independent but clearly subject to the influence of the ruling regime and clearly serves mr. putin. but what's important, what shouldn't be included here, besides condemning the russian regime's behavior, is that it's money laundering. there's a huge amount of corruption among russian politicians. here in the resolution there is a very important point where we call on the european commission and the other executive bodies of the european union to do everything possible to ensure that russian politicians and officials cannot launder money within the european union. this is very important, everything must be done to ensure that european banks, european companies are not used to launder money for people who serve the putin regime. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i was actually going to ask my former colleague a question, but i take advantage of your speaking time and i support your proposal, but do you think that in the current form, in the current commission regulations, we can really put an end to the abuses in russia? don't you think money laundering should be dealt with in relation to any other country, but now talking about russia, much more rigorously and with concrete effects?
mr president, thousands of people took to the streets of russia over the past days. alarmed, the government detained an estimated 1 400 people across russia. it is especially remarkable that more than one-in-six of these protestors were aged under 21. we are seeing a new generation of protestors unfolding under vladimir putin’s rule. in its attempt to repress and discredit any kind of opposition, in the past few years the russian regime has employed various means, most prominently the control of traditional media. alexei navalny, leader of the anti-corruption foundation, for example, was excluded from any kind of traditional media. instead, navalny found his audience on the internet, among those who have few memories of their country before putin. this new culture of information consumption is now the main challenge to the regime, representing an alternative to the propaganda. we should embrace this movement, as accessibility of information is a staple of any democracy.
in writing. while our conceptions of democracy and how it works may differ, i think we can all agree that the belarusian regime does not meet even the most minimal requirements. i think it is not surprising that after a period of perhaps a little more relaxation and a little more closeness, this system has shown its true face again. i think that the change should start with the reform of the electoral system, the people of belarus should say that they want to live in a society based on different foundations. to do this, the country must move towards genuine democratic functioning, and the european union cannot help but make cooperation conditional on respect for the democratic electoral rules of the game before next year's elections.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! we speak out against child marriage not only because it violates children's rights, because it is no longer an accepted social norm in european countries today, although it is still a practice in some communities. one reason we find it unacceptable is that girls are exposed to enormous health risks, often forced into marriage against their will. these children are not physically and mentally prepared for the responsibilities of childbirth and motherhood, but they are forced to do so by social customs. on the other hand, we think that the practice of child marriage should be stopped because it actually preserves poverty. the education of children who marry is interrupted, and exclusion from the education system is a barrier to social mobilization. so it would be important that in developing countries in south asia, where one in two women are married before the age of 18 and one in six before the age of 15, there is a noticeable change in this area.
mr president, commissioner, according to un data, bangladesh still has the highest rate of child marriage in the world. the report showed that 52% of girls in bangladesh are married before the age of 15. unfortunately, the recent 2017 law only bans marriages in name and in fact allows for child marriages. i appreciate the resolution, but it's not enough. we need education for children and adolescents and obviously change of legislation. commissioner, i believe that the commission must use the appropriate instruments, together with other international institutions, unicef, the un, to change the current tragic situation in practice, because girls will remain with their imprint for life after being forced to marry their abusers.
mr president, i was very happy to support this resolution because the fight against roaming is a concrete, tangible thing, in which we can show the citizens of the nation states that the european union can be a benefit to their lives and do something good for them. and i am also glad that we have finally taken a more bold approach than the one originally proposed by the commission and that we have lowered the ceilings on wholesale roaming charges even further. i would like to thank the rapporteur on this matter, who has made a significant contribution to the fact that the roaming ceilings will be reduced each year. so the proposal is good, it is right, and that is why i was happy to support it.
mr president, when the s&d group called for an end to roaming charges almost six years ago, there was a lot of opposition from national governments, from the ppe group in parliament, and even from the commission. our perspective changed the situation and our longstanding priority will now finally become reality on 15 june. roaming charges are now a thing of the past. europeans no longer face huge phone bills after travelling. they can use their phones abroad just like at home without paying extra. instead of switching off their phone when crossing a border, people will now be able to call their friends at home, tweet from a conference, or check their emails at the airport. under the leadership of our group, parliament defended the interest of citizens and small operators against big telecom companies, being able to push the data price cap down benefits consumers directly as the lower the cap, the more data they can use when travelling.
mr president, the dialogue with ukraine on visa waiver has been launched since 2008. since then, the commission has made numerous progress reports, mainly after the november 2013 demonstrations in maidan began and after the 2014 elections. it's been very difficult for ukraine throughout this period, and, to be honest, there was no consensus in the european parliament to condemn the russian aggression against ukraine and, by implication, crimea. he came a little later and with sanctions. people died during this time; over 9,000 people died in 2013-2014 in donetsk and luhansk alone. that's why it's vital that we help them. i support the issuing of visas, in parallel with a close monitoring of what is happening in ukraine. giving and taking is a way of doing things. that's why we have to monitor what happens to the money we give to ukraine, with the fight against corruption, with the rule of law and with the efforts of ukraine and we will welcome them visa-free.
mr president, i am very pleased that a resolution was passed today which clearly states that visa-free travel will be introduced between the european union and ukraine. it's the culmination of years of trial. ukraine has already fulfilled the conditions for the introduction of visa-free travel two years ago. for me, it's not just about ukrainian citizens being able to travel visa-free for 90 days in the european union, but this decision today has a huge symbolic meaning. we are clearly telling the ukrainians that we are counting on them, that they are our partners, and i hope that today's decision will further strengthen the feeling of the majority of ukrainians that they want to be the main partner towards the european union and that the main partner is the european union as a group of democratic states, and not russia, which, as we all know, is carrying out aggression in eastern ukraine. so this geopolitical level, this symbolic gesture, is perhaps even more important than the fact that ukrainians themselves will be able to travel around the european union in this way. i am pleased that this gesture strengthens the ties between the european union and ukraine.
mr president, european solidarity has to grow. this can be solved through education and engagement. i am glad that i was able to vote for such a report, this resolution on the european solidarity corps, but i drew attention during the debate to the need for the commission to have precise implementing rules, budgets, to have new budgets, and not to take away from other forms of support for young people. of course, it also needs to be monitored, the impact calculated and this new project correlated with other projects to support young people to engage not only in solidarity but also in everyday work. we have to provide them with jobs after volunteering.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, i agree with everything you said. after all, this is a matter of people's lives, and i think we can all agree that we have to do everything we can to save lives. but i ask you: in view of what you and mr caputo have presented, do you not think that there is still a possibility of helping that area and not only that, in europe we have many areas, through the strategic investment fund? this fund was created precisely for projects that are difficult to finance on the market through banks and i believe that such a project, as 'land of fires' would need and not only, could be eligible for funding through the strategic fund. what do you think?
mr president, commissioner, i do not want to take up any more of the debates of my colleagues. i agree that waste affects people's lives and affects them over the long term and for generations. i want us to think of solutions. i was surprised to see that the commission, in the waste directive, left a loophole so that hazardous waste would not be registered. shipments of less than two tonnes of hazardous waste and twenty tonnes of non-hazardous waste may pass without being registered. we need accurate traceability, because there can be one carrier of two tons of hazardous waste, but there can be a thousand carrier of two tons a year, and then, think about moving outbreaks from one country to another. i think that's where we need to think about immediate solutions, how we can stop, but especially long-term solutions. commissioner, perhaps you would consider devoting some research to waste disposal technology, because i do not think we have a very clear record at the moment: what types of waste we have and what technology we have to destroy it without affecting people's lives.
mr president, our group is in favour of a debate on christians throughout the middle east, but in may. so this is not the only thing to discuss. i know that tomorrow you will receive the grand mufti of egypt, to whom you will certainly have the opportunity to convey our concern about the situation of the copts. i think we should have a debate on christians, but in may, because the agenda is very busy.
mr president, i fully agree with the idea of discussing the situation, but first, who is to blame? the state, the government and the authorities are doing their very best to prevent terrorist attacks. what we do know is that the terrorists are just terrorists and the victims are just victims, and there is no need to unnecessarily mention the religious dimension. this is why i would rather embrace the idea presented by my colleague, mr preda, and not target that group in particular or exaggerate the religious aspect of this tragedy.
mr president, as manfred weber said, this debate is not about george soros, but is about what happened in hungary and what you are doing, mr orban. however, i will also recall that, in 1989-90, you benefited from a soros scholarship at an oxford college where you studied liberal political philosophy. now let us come back to the present time. academic freedom has been cancelled in hungary and we ask to have it back. your attack against the eu, other foreign universities and civil society is a brutal attack against free—minded education and free—minded people. we cannot tolerate this in the european union. a month ago, putin forced the closure of the european university in st petersburg. shortly after that you did the same thing inside the european union. i do not believe this is a coincidence. i believe it is a coordinated plan against the free-minded and democracy. so, prime minister orban, come back to europe and its values.
madam president, since we are talking about hungary because of the debate on the ceu, which is a higher education institution, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that an important higher education institution is operating contrary to the laws that have been in force in romania for many years. the university of medicine and pharmacy in marosvásárhely is a multicultural university according to the education act of 2011, which means that it should be formed within the framework of a separate hungarian educational unit. this has not happened in six years because of the institution's resistance. the situation is not of concern to the romanian government, the council of europe or the european union. i've spoken out on this issue myself many times, but apparently this university and this country don't interest as many people as ceu and hungary. it would be good if the european institutions were consistent and the rule of law was held accountable in all member states.
in writing. mr. orban, i was surprised by your speech, after you surprised me with the undemocratic actions you are undertaking in hungary. i congratulate the commission for presenting fairly and objectively what you do not respect in the governance of your country. mr orban, i know hungary well, i live in timisoara and i have many hungarian friends. how can we believe you when you come here and insult us, accuse us of not understanding? and you lied, mr. prime minister, when you said the university would continue its work. we've gotten a lot of letters from teachers and journalists that actually showed how they're going to be affected. you said you were proud, but what does pride have to do with respecting some of the values you recognized when you agreed to join the eu? pride is a quality, but when it goes beyond the measure, the gaussian curve says it's a defect!
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, you said that this commission proposal was a sham. do you not think that it is necessary to have a social pillar in our strategy, do you not think that it is good to come up with answers now to the commission's proposal, to link this social pillar with cohesion policy? is it right to generate generations of poor?
mr president, the structure of our societies is changing before our eyes while trade patterns and technology cause enormous transformations in our work environment. these shifts lead to both opportunities and challenges. even though the eu accounts for around 40% of global public social expenditure, around one-in-four of its citizens lives at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in my country, for example, income inequality is alarming: the richest 20% of the population has an income more than eight times higher than that of the poorest 20%. this causes a vicious circle of extreme poverty, social exclusion, precarious health and poor education. the european project was from its inception a bedrock for the economic development of our member states. it is now time that we reinforce the social dimension of our union and create a sensible impetus towards 21st century reforms, leading to more inclusive economic growth, job creation and social convergence. this is why i am looking forward to working on the commission proposal.
mr president, commissioner, i want to congratulate you on finally taking on this social pillar and not just equal opportunities, gender equality. women are valuable, anthropologically endowed with certain qualities and must be valued. but i want to ask you a question: this social pillar will not be able to have a positive effect unless you link it to social cohesion policy, because we have to understand that there are absolutely major differences between the economic development of the member states of the european union and they will generate, as i said, new generations of poor people. have you considered linking the social pillar with cohesion policy and how? and i really believe that we have to fight against discrimination based on gender, nationality, religion and political affiliation. we should not make politics for political parties, but for citizens, and i want very much for this to be understood, that there is no right-wing, left-wing or center-left citizen life. there is only the life of the citizens.
madam president, my colleagues have already expressed many positions and presented elements relating to the evolution of the turkish regime which show how problematic it is. we are embarrassed about the definition of relations with ankara. i would like to express my concern about the spread of mr erdoğan's model in europe, because there are people who have set mr erdoğan up as a political model. in this connection, i would like to recall that during the arab spring he himself tried to set himself up as a model. this is the case, for example, in countries such as bosnia and herzegovina, where mr izetbegović, the leader of the bosniaks, sees mr erdoğan as a model. among the social democrats, the romanian prime minister, victor ponta, has a real admiration for mr erdoğan and presents him as a reference. this spread of "erdoğanism" as a model worries me a lot.
madam president, the referendum is a significant turning point in modern turkish political history since atatürk. this so—called reform and the latest developments in turkey are downgrading all the many important steps that this country has taken in its modernisation and democratisation process, steps that have contributed to making turkey stronger, more prosperous, and a highly valuable partner of the euro-atlantic family. the months of campaigning before this vote cannot be considered as free or fair, and the opposition and international observers have pointed out irregularities in the vote itself, which have to be investigated. the outcome of the referendum can only deepen divisions within turkish society. as i said, i have concerns about the path turkey is taking today, and i have – and i will – express them without hesitation every single time this is necessary, but the way forward is in the hands of the turkish people. europe has made errors with regard to turkey, and these earlier strategic mistakes have to be acknowledged. there are those in this house who are taking advantage of the errors being made by erdogan today to give them a good reason to stop the process. this should be recognised. there was high cynicism in this room. but i will just say that, whatever partnership relations we design in the future, we have to consider the strategical nature of our relations. i am referring to security, regional stability, the fight against terrorism, and, most of all, maintaining a mutually beneficial dialogue with turkey in the future.
madam president, commissioner, for several years now there has been a phenomenon which i do not hesitate to call 'euroconformism', that is to say, the obedient approval of all the clichés emanating from the european political mainstream. this phenomenon is best seen in relation to turkey. the recent referendum, however contested by various groups, was a democratic exercise, we must admit. the accusations of lack of democracy and human rights violations are, unfortunately, marked by hypocrisy. the truth is that in turkey the regional and historical context does not allow the same standards to be applied as in the west. consequently, there was never really a desire in europe for turkey to join, and the turks know that. president erdogan's virulence is not the cause, but the consequence of the attitude of the europeans. on the other hand, it is clear that the european union has ceased to be an attraction for turkey. this should make us all think, and now it is the europeans who need turkey most. if we remove our heads from euroconformism, we will see reality clearly.
in writing. – after a history of clampdown on civil liberties and the freedom of speech and the press, it is unfortunately likely that president erdoğan will use his slim referendum margin as a tool for even more restrictions of democratic principles and fundamental rights. already, thousands of civilians and political opponents have been arrested because they questioned the legitimacy of the controversial referendum. in such a situation, our greatest concern should be the fate of the turkish citizens who still stand up for democratic principles and the rule of law. after having given their lives last year to defend democracy from military dictatorship, turks find themselves under another autocracy won through electoral foul play. some of them still look to europe for help. but we cannot be a credible voice as long as we do not stop deluding turkey with the prospect of eu membership and be honest towards ourselves on the relationship we foresee with turkey.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. mr president, the proper planning and implementation of responsible and forward-looking reforms is a difficult task, requiring strong analytical, planning and management skills, as well as access to information and adequate human resources, which, as we know, is unfortunately not available in all countries. the creation of the structural reform support programme is a very welcome initiative, as all member states should be given the opportunity to apply for and receive support for reforms that contribute to a healthy economic environment, boost growth and employment and improve the living standards of citizens. i am pleased that through the amendments i have adopted in my recommendation to the employment committee, among others, the instrument is increasing its legitimacy and transparency without losing its effectiveness and ease of use.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure you began your presentation by saying that you believe that this proposal for a regulation brings europe closer to its citizens. if you could explain how you see this, because i'm afraid that, i agree that we need the structural reform support program, but i'm afraid that we don't take from one pocket and put in the other pocket, i'm afraid that we don't take from the structural funds and go to this program, to which i didn't understand how the money will be allocated per state, after which the criteria, each, if one country asks, give to one country, was not understood from the project and if you consider that the situation of the structural reform support program is clear.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr van nistelrooij and mrs krehl, on the approach they have taken in this report. europe needs investment to be able to implement policies that reduce unemployment, combat poverty, but also provide adequate social protection and reduce disparities. it is also why the union has identified a number of structural reforms as one of its priorities, with the aim of giving a sustainable upward trajectory to the process of economic recovery and growth. reforms are by their very nature complex processes, they must be socially balanced, always taking into account the needs of the public. taking on structural reforms on the ground, especially with the help of local and regional authorities and the social partners, is an essential condition of this programme.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you much for today’s debate, for your valuable contributions and for your support. as i said earlier, we continue to receive expressions of interest from member states who count on receiving support as soon as possible. the commission is ready to activate the structural reform support programme (srsp) as soon as it is adopted, and to proceed as swiftly as possible with the following steps: member states must first submit their requests; the commission will analyse those requests, ensuring equal treatment; the commission will conclude the cooperation and support plans with member states and then prepare the annual work programme, and only afterwards will it finalise all the contracting procedures. on the question which was raised concerning the imposition of unwanted reforms on the member states, it is very clearly stated in the regulation that this is done at the request of the member state and not the other way round. the european parliament will remain closely involved in the role of the srsp, and i will be coming back to report on both the first steps and the first results under the programme. with the help of parliament and the council, we have an excellent text to seal, so let us continue to work in this spirit of partnership between the three institutions. i therefore call on you to lend your support and adopt the srsp. this would pave the way for providing the first support measures on the ground already in september/october.
in writing. as we all know, cohesion policy is very important for reducing the gaps between european regions, supporting job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and improving the quality of life. this new structural reform support programme actually increases the administrative burden on member states and takes resources from cohesion policy to use for some structural reforms imposed by the european commission that are not related to economic and social cohesion. i think that by slashing the budget of cohesion policy in this way we are jeopardising its future after 2020. let us not forget that funds from the european structural and investment funds have already been reallocated to finance migrants. moreover, the danger hidden in this initiative is that the european commission is actually trying to force member states to implement the structural reforms imposed by the country-specific recommendations, reforms that are not always in the interest of the citizens of those states. and so i ask myself: how can citizens trust european institutions when they no longer work in their interests?
the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the history of this subject is older, it started in 2011 with a letter sent by several ministers of culture from european countries to the european institutions, which did not react for years. the culture committee has had this subject on its agenda since i have been there, since 2014, and in fact, in one of the previous reports, which i also wrote, and at the suggestion of my colleagues in the culture committee, i introduced the need, i spoke about the need to introduce this year of heritage 2018. and so, in a hurry, very recently, the european council opened up this subject and we started to draft this report in an emergency procedure. from that moment on, i must tell you, there was an extraordinary solidarity throughout the committee on culture and education. not only the shadow rapporteurs, but everyone, many of whom i see here in the chamber, are with me, they have been with me, especially at the most delicate point in the development of this subject, namely in the negotiations i have had with the commission and the council. they were really there with me, in all the delicate points of the negotiations, and what was achieved is the reason why today i am very satisfied, i am very excited about what was achieved in these negotiations, and the cooperation with the european commission and the council was absolutely remarkable and i want to appreciate it not in the usual oscar-type reflexes, but simply that's how it was. and that was, which means that we have the premises, we have the premises of a very interesting subject on the table. i would also like to say one thing: in the vote in the committee on culture, all the political groups supported this subject, with one exception, which i find quite amusing, very amusing, namely that one of the political groups, which usually does this, opposes everything, told me that it has nothing against it, but for political reasons it has to vote against it. i get it, which probably means that tomorrow's vote will be simple, easy and clear, especially once again that we can understand: culture unites, not divides, even at this level. from this point of view, what already excites me is that in 2018 we will have the opportunity, and it will happen, to show ourselves, citizens, states, european institutions, associations, structures of all kinds in the field, to show what we have the best in our countries, what represents us as a national identity and the final conclusion of this year, i am very convinced that it will be, is that the european element will appear in all these national events, which will demonstrate that we are indeed a unified space, built over many years, even a thousand years of history, through a community, some common experiences, some good, some not very good or unfortunate. what is certain is that today we are a common space. that's certainly the conclusion of this year of heritage. i would like to point out one extremely important thing, and i want to make it clear, that it was yesterday that the debate began, even though the report has not yet been voted on in the committee. all the european states were invited, they participated, the commission was extremely prepared and meticulous and basically the subject was started. let's be on a good watch and hope that tomorrow's vote doesn't stop this - let's just say - flight!
mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur, mircea diaconu, to mrs costa, to all the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report! europe's identity is defined by many things: geography, culture, history, freedom, but also by its cultural heritage. in this context, the proposal to designate 2018 as the european year of cultural heritage is welcomed and the events that will take place will allow european and non-european citizens visiting europe to appreciate europe's culture, to become aware of our common history and values, and to strengthen their sense of belonging to the european public space. we can never say that one culture is superior to another, and this programme encourages the development of local, regional, cross-border projects that will allow all cultures to flourish.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would first like to thank the honourable members for their contribution and their work in the preparation and preparatory works of the european year of cultural heritage. i will just make one brief remark. the european cultural heritage is a collection and a pool of local cultural heritages. that is why we would like to see a bottom-up structure for the european year of cultural heritage, which means that we would like to put the emphasis on the local level, the involvement of local communities, and helping those local communities to showcase their own cultural richness and cultural heritage. we are going to have flagship events at european level, but, if we want to be successful and to be happy by the end of next year, we have to help – and we should help – those local communities to be successful in showing their treasures and the richness of their cultural heritage, because that is europe. europe is a community of communities, and we have to show, and to open up, all the opportunities for local and regional communities to show their own treasures.
the reporter. i would like to draw the attention of the two political groups which do not support this report collectively to the fact that the subjects they are rightly developing are different and can be financed, have been solved from completely different programmes than this one, that is to say, to try, so to speak, at another desk. but, after the speeches by commissioner navracsics and all my colleagues, especially since most of them are active participants in this report, and this, in my view, success so far, would be nothing to say. and yet, in conclusion, i would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to a very special opportunity, namely that parliament remains, according to the final document, an effective collaborator and participant until the end of the project, which i believe is unusual and well deserved, especially as the main subject to be addressed in europe, i believe and not only i, is the re-establishment of the link between the european institutions, the european union at its head and the citizens. and who can do it better than parliament, which is made up of people elected by the citizens? therefore, at this celebration of all, as the commissioner said, of communities, citizens, associations, everyone, we must all be, all institutions and all citizens, to be like a celebration that comes once in a hundred years. let's understand this, evaluate it as such, and act accordingly. i wish this, i hope it's a success.
in writing. the proposal for a european year of cultural heritage is a victory for parliament, but also for the dozens of european organisations and national public authorities who have supported the idea before the commission. while i appreciate the commission's approach to supporting european culture, i am disappointed to see that parliament's text ignores the contribution of tourism to promoting cultural heritage and the budget allocation is insufficient to achieve the objectives. as commissioner tibor navracsics has also stated, the link between culture and tourism is obvious and indestructible. so i don't want the year of cultural heritage to be just an image campaign, but i want to see it as an opportunity to highlight how the synergy between tourism and cultural heritage helps to promote all that europe holds most precious. at the same time, we must ensure that the european year is marked in all european countries and that the action plan succeeds in identifying and promoting the hidden treasures of our continent. so, to highlight the bridges that can be created between states, i would like to refer to the great sculptor constantin brâncuși, whose work can be found both in romania and exhibited in the largest museums in the world.
in writing. the european parliament's decision to dedicate 2018 to european heritage, as proposed by the commission, is welcome. the european cultural heritage is a common resource and a common good which must be preserved for future generations and the protection of which is a common responsibility of all. created over time by the synthesis of the highly diverse cultural expressions of the civilizations that have populated europe, heritage can play an important role in the cohesion of communities at a time when european societies are experiencing a period of increasing diversity. the european year will encourage a better understanding of the need to protect and promote the diversity of cultural expressions. understanding the vital importance of cultural heritage to our community, five years ago the udmr launched the 'protectors of heritage - adopt a monument' programme which aims to educate and engage young people in protecting and promoting built heritage. the programme has been a real success, and over this period more and more pupils and high school students have understood the importance of protecting monuments and enthusiastically trained in activities dedicated to this purpose. the udmr wishes to promote this programme at european level as a set of good practices for civic engagement, from an early age, in the protection and transmission of cultural heritage to future generations.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, gender equality is an explicit objective of several sections of the union budget. however, i would like to stress that mainstreaming is not a political objective in itself, but an essential tool that must continue to be used throughout the budgetary procedure in all european strategies. i also believe it is vital to accelerate the promotion of the strategic commitment to gender equality for the period 2016-2019, as budgetary resources specifically allocated to gender have decreased in existing policies for the post-2015 period. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the need for a concrete analysis of the achievement of the gender-related objectives also mentioned in strategy 2020 to be included in the court of auditors' annual evaluation reports on the implementation of the union budget.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the president of the court of auditors for the work of the court on the special reports. i think it's a big step forward and it helps parliament a lot in the discharge work and it also touches on those principles of performance-based budgeting and it also looks at the budget outcomes in the territory and it's a very important thing. i just want to talk about the discharge for the board, again we're going to vote tomorrow to postpone the discharge for the budget and i don't think that's a good decision. this has been happening for years. i think it diminishes the credibility of the budget discharge process and we should do something about it. i hope that now, with this delay, we'll have the time to find a way to reach an agreement. in the end, all the work of parliament, the council and the court of auditors is thus put at risk.
mr president, i had another score prepared, but i think it is important to discuss the credibility of this committee, the fact that we should, in a very objective, very cold way, monitor how european money is spent, how the financial interests of the european union are protected, but instead we see how this committee is involved in the electoral struggle in a member state of the european union, how it is used as an electoral tool against one candidate so that the other candidate has an open corridor. i believe that the involvement of this committee in an electoral battle destroys the credibility not only of the committee but also of the european parliament and ultimately undermines all the efforts we have made up to this point. i think that the leadership of the european parliament should take a much firmer stance and i think that such attitudes should be sanctioned in the future.
mr president, the right to safe and secure work, the guarantee of a decent standard of living and the support of those in need are principles which have guided european social policy for many years. the crisis period has, however, been a difficult one for most social groups, with substantial effects in particular on women or young people in the labour market. the european union must remain a model of good practice in social policies and in protecting the rights of citizens, especially the most vulnerable. the european pillar of social rights can be the general framework for defining social policies at european level and in the member states. in other words, through the existence of this pillar, we can hope to establish a new social contact between the eu and its citizens, but it must be fair, solid, solid and credible.
mr president, today there was a debate in the european parliament on the situation in hungary. instead of seeing a discussion about solutions and about countering authoritarian tendencies, we saw a leader of the group of popular europeans, mr manfred weber, who considered it appropriate to have an intervention in which to directly attack romania and the democratically elected government. again, my country is treated with contempt by a political right that cannot accept the result of the parliamentary elections. i want to tell the representatives of this political family that we cannot accept to be treated as such. we know that some want to put romania in the same boat with hungary and poland to cut our allocated funds. we know that the european people want to change the current political majority in romania, democratically elected. we know that the right wants to cut cohesion funds and build a europe with more speeds. i'm here to tell them that we will fight for a europe where all member states and all citizens, including romanians, are treated with respect and do not become a political stake for the european political right.
the european investment bank plays a very important role, because at the moment in europe it is investment that is lacking and the need for investment is what we are talking about every day. the fact that less than 10% of these investments supported by the european investment bank are going to the countries that have just joined the european union makes it very clear that we are dealing with a geographical imbalance. it is very important that the european investment bank's efforts are directed towards countries, areas that do not have sufficient expertise in thinking and financing very large projects, to build financial mixes and to think of innovative ways to finance much larger infrastructure projects. the role of the european investment bank should also be to support the european union's efforts to fight tax havens, tax evasion and i believe that the european investment bank should refuse to finance projects to companies that have offshore activities or that work with intermediaries with offshore activities. i also want to welcome the decision of the european investment bank to work much more closely with the european parliament. i think that much closer communication between parliament and the bank is very important and your presence, mr president, more often in the european parliament at the econ commission would be very useful, as would also be very useful assessments by the bank on the suggestions that parliament made in 2013, in 2014. we would be very interested in the bank's position on those assessments.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, both of us come from countries in central/eastern europe. how do you explain the low number of projects funded by the eib in central/eastern europe recently, and the lack of transparency, particularly in the selection of projects?
madam president, both reports show the good work of the european investment bank, and the role of this bank in launching the juncker project was remarkable. i support the recommendations in both reports that the bank should do more to accelerate convergence between member states and between the regions of those member states. in this respect, i believe that the bank should devote more resources to the technical assistance needed by the less developed member states in preparing complex strategic investment projects, member states including my own country, romania.
madam president, commissioner, these are very important reports. the eib is clearly a key player in delivering our 2030 agenda. if you like, the whole european union strategy depends on investment, we want connectivity, we want energy efficiency, we want support for smes. personally, i'm on the imco commission and i'm a big supporter of smes, i don't think 38 percent is enough when you think we have 99 percent of smes. and then, i would recommend to the eib some red lines: first, the poor areas, the areas that need investment if we want social cohesion, if we want to stop the brain drain from one side to the other and make certain areas even poorer. then another red line: connectivity. there's a shortage of infrastructure in a lot of areas. how can we talk about connectivity in europe if we have areas where we don't have highways, we don't have railways? and last but not least, as i said, smes, which are the basic structure of the european union.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank each and every one of you for the fruitful debate we have had today. i would like to emphasize again the work done by your committees and in particular by your two rapporteurs. we welcome the new framework for this debate, with the contribution of two very rich parliamentary reports, one of which concerns the control of the eib's financial activities. this is the result of the eib's growing economic role and enhanced investment capacity, which the european commission has wanted and supports. the economic and financial situation in europe requires very determined political action. we are convinced that the eib's activities are a crucial component of the european union's efforts to restore sustainable growth and better employment in europe, in particular through the partnership between the commission and the eib in implementing the investment plan for europe. we can only rejoice in this relationship between us. the confidence we place in the eib is well founded. i am confident that next year's opinion of the european parliament on the eib's activities will be as encouraging as the one it drew up on the eib's 2015 report and will also take into account new contributions from this bank, which is our bank. in this context, i am pleased that, under the watchful eye of the european parliament, very close and very fruitful cooperation between the european commission and the eib is continuing for the benefit of europeans, for more investment and more jobs. that's really my wish.
president of the european investment bank. – madam president, this was such a wide spectrum of interventions and opinions and issues that i certainly cannot respond to each and every one of them in the very limited time, so i promise to every member of the european parliament who has posed a question or made a remark that we will come back individually to those issues which i cannot immediately address. i think a couple of issues are really of key importance for me now, because i heard the words ‘focus’ and ‘coordination’ again and again, and i can report to you that in the context of the economic resilience initiative for the southern neighbourhood and the western balkans, in connection then with the external investment plan of the european union, and the g20 initiative on africa, it is very evident that more and better coordination is absolutely urgent if we do not want to confuse our partners in the political and economic world. second point, i thank you very much for your remarks on the external activities of the european investment bank. it is only roughly 10% of what we are doing, but it is gaining importance because it becomes more and more evident that the european union is sometimes serving its interests best if it looks beyond its own borders and takes activities outside the union, and the eu bank is ready to support that. i believe in the future there will be more. there is one big issue that has been the focus of the discussions in washington last weekend, and that is climate change and sustainability, and i can tell you that the wind is not necessarily getting any more favourable to these issues. we have insisted also in the discussions with the other multilateral development banks and international financial institutions that we must not lower our ambitions on climate change mitigation and the achievement of the sustainable development goals which we subscribed to so happily only three years ago. i think it is a question of credibility also of the financial institutions that we do not forget what we subscribed to in new york two years ago and in paris one-and-a-half years ago. the eib is in the vanguard in this respect among the financial institutions. there is one big issue within the european union that we have to address and we will address it now with the new york regulation for efsi ii, and that is cohesion. i think it has been a mistake in the original legislation, and you have something to do with that legislation by the way, for efsi, because the combination of the esif and efsi was very difficult in the old regulation and with the new one that is now on your desks, i think this will get better. i think we can be better on cohesion in the next couple of years. however, i want to get away from the impression that comes back in reports and questions again and again that we, so to speak, favour the old, big, strong member states of the european to the detriment of the small ones. i shall read out the eib’s 2016 signatures as a percentage of gdp, and i shall just mention the list in the order of magnitude of the member states. so investments per gdp: estonia: 1; malta, bulgaria, cyprus, croatia, poland, slovakia, finland, portugal, spain, greece, italy, lithuania – these are the first countries on that list and i think that reflects the needs and the fact that probably roughly three times as much per capita goes into a country like spain, and that in comparison to my own country shows that the european union and the european investment bank are aware of our special responsibilities vis-à-vis those countries which are either relatively new in the union or are in difficulties, and spain is a wonderful example where the eib could make a substantial contribution to a thorough improvement of the situation, and we are proud of that. then there has been a lot of worry about microcredit. i fully share that. we have lots of experience with microcredit outside the european union and i think it is gaining in importance within it as well. i have heard well that you encourage us to take more risk. i agree with that as well. this is a cultural issue for a bank which invests, but it must not be overlooked that this bank is capital-market based. we are proud to say, and sometimes politicians are proud to say, the eu bank is the biggest multilateral lender in the world. it is. but we are also the biggest multilateral borrower in the world because we refinance by going to the capital markets for eur 70-100 billion per year through the sale of eib bonds, so we have an accumulated debt also of more than eur half a trillion, and that means we have to be very serious when we talk about sustainability. that is a principle that goes beyond economics, of course, but also when it comes to the principle of economic viability and the concentration of social and environmental standards which we observe closely. finally, i know that questions of accountability are always of utmost importance and so are questions of transparency. everything can get better, but if i compare this bank to its peers then i would like to say that we are second to none, and if the biggest one is second to none, then i think we are not completely on the wrong track.
in writing. the eib should invest in projects that achieve sustainable growth in all member states, and for the efsi - european fund for strategic investments, the additionality of the projects financed should be carefully considered, given the additional risk-taking capacity. the eif and the efsi will have to play a crucial role in terms of risk capital and guarantees to complement the eib's activities, in particular in terms of supporting smes, but also economic cohesion. the objective of the multiplier effect of the guarantee funds must be doubled by stimulating declining economic sectors and by closing the gaps in europe's less developed regions. the commission notes that the bank's lending to the private sector has been relatively low in the past, with a negative impact on the overall economy. simplifying access to finance and combining grants with loans and financial instruments are other issues that need to be addressed. i ask the eib to take greater account of the need to advise beneficiaries directly and to strengthen cooperation with national promotional banks or relevant institutions. i hope that the sme initiative also launched in romania will benefit from the expected results and i ask the eif to present in full transparency the successes and failures of the programme.
madam president, commissioner, mr president of the eurogroup, i will not dwell on your statements, there has been a lot of talk. but i am interested in how you will make that link between responsibility and solidarity, you have said that you want to make that link, and how you will improve the experience gained from the crisis? you were talking about a european stability mechanism. how do you apply it as a prevention mechanism? let's not forget that this isn't just about greece. if you fail in greece it will be a signal of how not to for all countries. i don't suspect you of lack of intelligence, but here it is a question of good faith, because the one who made the atomic bomb, dynamited it, was also intelligent. it's about character and good intelligence. i want you to be very clear about how you're going to make this adjustment for greece, so that we don't have other countries in the greek situation? and remember, we're talking about people's lives here, not some paper you're making over there.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the eurogroup, i thank you on behalf of the commission for your speeches and comments. the state of play of the stability support programme for greece is a very important debate and, as you all have pointed out, it comes at a rather critical time, because greece is at a turning point today. after a year and a half of european stability mechanism support programmes, it is now time to build on the progress made so far in greece, to support the economic recovery that began to emerge in 2016, which is awaiting the conclusion of the review, and thus to ensure a successful exit from the programme in 2018, as planned. the commission again welcomes the agreement reached at the eurogroup meeting in malta on 7 april. i think that should allow the international monetary fund (imf) to join the programme. the post-programme package - i repeat it here - will be budgetary neutral if our forecasts are correct and i say to those who have criticised them here that, in general, they have not been wrong about budgetary surpluses. as far as growth is concerned, that is another matter, because growth is closely dependent precisely on the progress of the programme and that is what we must take into account. all this amounts essentially to a rearrangement of public finances to strengthen growth and social protection. it is true that some work remains to be done in the days ahead. (the president interrupted the speaker to call for silence in the chamber) however, i am convinced that the mission under way can make substantial progress. we're not far from the final goal. therefore, rapid progress must now be made to complete the review of the second programme. this requires reaching agreement at technical level in the coming days. the greek authorities will have to implement a series of measures, i repeat, for the whole programme. agreement on the completion of the second review, which should also provide certainty on the primary surplus and debt sustainability of greece, should be reached quickly between the partners. i am convinced that a lasting recovery, that economic and financial stability is not only in the interest of greece and its citizens, but very clearly in the interest of all, of the european union as a whole, and we are aware that we are highly expected at this very moment. we must all meet the deadline without small phrases, without ideological position but with a shared concern that greece goes forward, returns to growth and stability, creates jobs and can simply move towards the exit from the programme. the commission is absolutely determined to contribute to this.
president of the eurogroup. – madam president, first of all, many members of parliament have been very critical about my remarks in the interviews, and of course i fully accept that. the choice of words was unfortunate and people have been offended, and i regret that. the underlying debate still remains valid: that to build a community requires everyone to take responsibility, respecting agreements and frameworks, and, on that basis, moving forward together and strengthening solidarity in the union and in the eurozone. that is the legacy that i would like to leave. that is what i have worked for and i think, looking back on the last four and a half years, the eurozone is in a much better state than when i came to the job as we are moving out of the crisis and many member states are back into strong growth. i stress again that my remarks were about the responsibility for all member states, not some of them, and if the impression was that it was about some of them, i regret that. it was not my intention. i believe that all of us should take that responsibility. i will make one remark about my personal opinions on the development of the european stability mechanism (esm): i believe it can play a stronger role, which would also allow the imf not to be part of future programmes. i am not excluding them from being part of future programmes and i certainly hope we won’t need any future programmes, but i feel that the esm can play a leading role and that it should develop in that direction. that does not mean that i wish to take away responsibilities from the commission. i made my remark about the commission to underline that i feel that the commission should stay in the lead as the guardian of the pact and the rules that we share. finally, on greece, parliament has my personal strong commitment that we will achieve that deal for greece in may. it needs to be done in may. we have put in a lot of effort. the situation in greece is not good enough; growth is falling back again where we need trust and growth to continue. so, yes, you have my personal commitment and i will come back to parliament as soon as possible with that fair deal for greece. i believe that, already in the package we are discussing now, the emphasis is not on austerity; it is about deep reforms that are necessary to create more growth, and any fiscal outcome of that can be reinvested in greece and used for the positive policy initiatives so badly needed in greece. finally, yes, we will discuss debt, and debt relief will be needed to find that solution. that is my opinion, and i believe that is shared in the eurogroup. last year we already gave that commitment to come back to the issue of sustainability of debt for greece, because that is the only way that they will come back onto a sustainable path and a sustainable economic future.
in writing. again, greece is on the edge with its external debt due in july 2017, in the absence of an agreement with the international monetary fund, the european financial stability facility and the european commission. this situation has been repeatedly repeated in recent years. the reason is very clear: the creditors do not want to take their share of responsibility for allowing greece's external debt to reach unusual dimensions (currently 180 percent of greece's gross domestic product). in fact, a fundamental condition for any restructuring of a country's external debt is not met: the achievement of a new balance between the country's real potential to generate revenue (after the adoption of reforms) and the debt due in future years. in the case of greece, the need to write off part of the debt is clear. the creditors are resisting, but eventually they'll have to accept that truth.
mr president, you said it was long. therefore, i do not think it is necessary to read the title of the reports. we have all these elements before our eyes. it is therefore sufficient to mention the name of the rapporteur.
madam president, i voted for this report, but i had the observations which i also put forward in the debate. firstly, i believe that the eib is an important player in our development strategy, in the development of the european union as a whole, and we need better centralisation of funds. the eib must take the risk to finance those areas where we need infrastructure, we need to support smes on real projects, on job development. the eib is not like any other bank that runs on minimal risk. i therefore believe that in the coming period the eib must be subject to scrutiny and reporting in parliament in order to be able to really support the development of the areas and increase social cohesion, increase infrastructure, improve infrastructure and connectivity and increase jobs in europe.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur. i believe that the eib can be the main instrument to fill the current investment gap within the european union. therefore i support the call for a more active policy from the eib, especially to support strategic investment for growth, jobs and innovation. i also believe that it is necessary to strengthen its policy in the field of climate change action to achieve the eu commitments taken within cop 21. nevertheless, i would like to underline that there is also a need for increased parliamentary oversight of the eib’s activities, taking into consideration the lack of transparency, particularly in the selection of projects and the low number of projects in central and eastern europe. therefore i agree that an interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the eib could improve this aspect. additionally, the eib should improve its policy to fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion by applying all the eu rules on activities through a swift implementation of the relevant eu legislation and standards.
madam president, i voted for this report, but i would like to mention what i said in the debate: it is very important that this programme of support for structural reforms for the period 2017-2020 achieves its objective. let's go and support local authorities, especially those in rural areas, in public-private partnerships, money that is taken not taken from other structural funds, because then we move from one pocket to another. it is very important to focus this support programme on assisting the municipalities, the small municipalities, the small towns, the communes, where investment is really needed, but they do not know how to use european money. and i hope that this structural reform support programme will achieve its objective, but with these conditions that i have said, and i think that we, the parliament, the specialised committees, have the task of checking whether this is happening.
madam president, i welcome the fact that, in the structural reform support programme for the period 2017-2020, we included references to the core principle of cohesion policy – namely that the actions and activities under the new programme should also be able to contribute to social, economic and territorial cohesion. we also included cohesion as an area eligible for support, even though this was not originally proposed by the commission. finally, we struck a deal with the council on involving regional and local players in member states’ reform processes. we succeeded in having increased scrutiny by parliament, enhanced transparency which will enable us to access the programme’s added value. moreover, i welcome the focus on ensuring transparency in two stages – ex—ante and ex—post. when the disclosure of relevant information would not adversely affect the implementation of support measures, full information regarding cooperation and support plans should be provided to the council and to parliament.
madam president, i have supported this initiative from the outset and i am glad that a man of culture from romania, mircea diaconu, is the rapporteur and that we voted on this report today. the european year of cultural heritage coincides for my country with the celebration of the centenary of its independence and i am happy about this coincidence, but i hope that this year, the european year of culture, we will do something concrete for diversity, unity in diversity, as the motto of the european union is, we will do something concrete for the preservation of cultural values and heritage in all countries, in all member states, we will do events that really mark the european year of cultural heritage. i think we do not know enough about our cultures, about each other's member states and about our citizens, and i think we can do things that create bridges, because, after all, culture and education are what connect people.
i welcome, madam president, the fact that 2018 could be the european year of cultural heritage and i agree that the main objective of the european year is to celebrate european cultural heritage as a common resource that stems from centuries of history and binds the member states and the peoples of europe together. at the same time, i believe that this year is a good opportunity to talk more about the past and the way of looking at history of the peoples of europe, because some of that past still divides and pits the individual nations against each other. i believe that the member states of the european union must strive for historic reconciliation, but this requires openness, a willingness to compromise and, above all, common goals and aspirations. at the dawn of european integration, there were such common goals among the founding member states, and one of the eu's main challenges is to have such common goals on the horizon of the member states' thinking today, which can only be achieved by coming together, by respecting each other and by cooperating as equals.
i also supported this resolution, madam president, because i believe that projects which lead to an understanding of our heritage, our european culture, of what european culture has in common, but also of the differences between individual countries and nations, are very useful and important, and lead to a natural upbringing and to our perceiving and identifying ourselves as europeans and to perceiving europe as a continent with a common wealth, a common culture. that is why i have supported this proposal and i hope that, for a small amount of money, we will be able to carry out a number of interesting projects throughout europe. i am glad that it was chosen for next year, 2018, because czechoslovakia was established as an independent state in 1918, and we czechs therefore commemorate the restoration of czech, although at that time czechoslovak, statehood.
madam president, i welcome the fact that we have been leading this initiative for the establishment of a european year of cultural heritage in 2018, keeping pressure on the commission until the presentation of the proposal in september 2016. it was followed by an accelerated procedure, agreed among all political groups, to be able to have the position of the parliament as quickly as possible in order to start negotiations with the council. an agreement was finally achieved under the maltese presidency. the european year of cultural heritage 2018 will support cultural activities and projects in order to protect, safeguard, use, develop and promote europeans’ shared cultural heritage. parliament has secured an eur 8 million budget for these activities and managed to ensure parliament’s active involvement in the management of the year. our aim is to involve citizens in the recognition and promotion of their cultural heritage. și aș vrea să fac o referire la faptul că a fost aici o colegă care mereu folosește greșit în limba română termenul „președintă”. în limba română, președintă este defectiv de gen, există numai președinte.
madam president, the work of the european court of auditors has been underestimated for many years. sure, it depends on one's expectations. for example, the european court of auditors has not dealt with the financial transparency of the european institutions, it has not looked deeply at how management is done in all the european institutions, also conflicts of interest seem to have ceased to exist for the court of auditors, human resources policy, how hiring is done, how promotions are made. and because i mentioned conflicts of interest, i'm very concerned that since 2012, the european court of auditors has not done any special report on conflicts of interest, especially for agencies that work with industries, and it's vital for our health and our lives that they do, and that's agencies in the food industry, agencies in the pharmaceutical industry, agencies in the chemical industry, agencies in the aircraft industry. all of this is essential, because when there is a conflict of interest between european officials and industry, we all suffer. i would also like to say just one thing: in 2015, the court, although it promised to reduce staff by 5%, made new hires.
madam president, in the case of this agency, as in the case of the european court of auditors, i voted against discharge because i personally found irregularities. there were many malfunctions and irregularities at acer, the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, and as i said, i did not vote for the discharge. there are serious problems in human resources policy, recruitment policy, for example, in 2015, the agency hired an assistant of grade 8, although it was allowed to make only one recruitment for grade 5. that means more money, where did she get it and why isn't the court of auditors sanctioning her? or, an employee who won a lawsuit against the agency was no longer employed, even though the agency was obligated to hire him. also in 2014, the head of the administrative service was reclassified with a very high rank, being in conflict of interest because he was a member of the committee that decided to make these promotions. therefore, i did not vote for ... (the president interrupted the speaker).
madam president, this time i want to justify why i voted to discharge the european medicines agency and i'm going to start with what a lot of people are saying, that the pharmaceutical industry is running our world. but we must not be intimidated by that, we must make the right policies and the right laws for the citizens. the european union is losing €10.2 billion a year to counterfeit medicines. it's an enormous amount of money. and most of all, we have counterfeit drugs that make people sick, not healthy. since 2013, the agency has received about 40 reports in this regard, and i think it would have received more if it could have a system that protects whistleblowers. i am pleased that the agency has now adopted such a regulation this year which helps it to verify allegations of non-compliance with medicines standards while protecting whistleblowers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the end, in any analysis we must start with statistical data. the number of financial irregularities has increased worryingly: 36% in 2015 compared to 2014. it is an argument for deep analysis, but also for concrete action. i support the report and hope that, once we adopt it, there will be improved cooperation and collaboration between the commission and the member states, and also between the competent institutions in each member state. the analysis shows that the major source of revenue for the member states is vat. unfortunately, there is an increased vulnerability to tax fraud in cross-border transactions, commissioner, and i think we need to focus where the greatest vulnerability exists. there must be close and loyal cooperation between states to eliminate carousel fraud. customs controls are very important in this fraud detection chain, but it is clear that they are not enough. i also believe that the control procedures for products which are predominantly used and traded by smuggling must be improved, because 75% of all products are alcohol, tobacco, textiles, electric cars, to name a few. that is where we must concentrate our controls, and of course counterfeiting. i welcome the ex ante and ex post community controls to be able to detect irregularities that can prevent fraud in the future, but they need to be strengthened and made more efficient and support the rapporteur's position and i also ask the commission to consider the possibility of mandatory use of risk assessment tools by member states. commissioner, i think olaf is doing its job, but we must also look at efficiency, it is not enough to have a statistical number of checks, but the effect of these checks is important and i come here with a concrete proposal: i think we must increase sanctions, we must tighten sanctions because every person who makes a mistake must be corrected if he does not want to by means of sanctions and after all every euro counts and this euro is missing citizens not necessarily from the european union. it all goes to the citizen.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we are living in a world that changes every day and facing constant technological challenges that demand the continuous development of knowledge, skills and competence. both the private and the public sector require skills that were almost unconceivable 30 years ago, and in adapting to these changes we should no longer follow old-school ways when it comes to education. yet our education and training systems lag behind this new dynamic, limiting the recognition of non-formal and informal learning, including the skills gained during volunteering activities. this is damaging, not only in relation to a short-term economic outcome, but also to the main aim of education: generating adaptable and independent individuals able to face the challenges ahead with open minds and confidence. greater flexibility in skills recognition is beneficial for european citizens, and can also lead to better economic and social integration for migrants and refugees, thus responding to another challenge of the eu. at the same time, through structured dialogues with the eu neighbourhood countries, especially the ones that have an association agreement with the eu, we should aim at referencing their national qualification frameworks to the european training foundation. in this way, if sooner or later these countries become eu members, their citizens will be ready to cope with the demands of the european markets and labour force from day one. moreover, eu support through development aid should be directed to third countries in order to offer assistance in developing national qualifications frameworks. the revision of the european qualifications framework should result in an innovative meta-framework that responds to all these existing challenges but also think ahead, anticipate potential problems and offers ‘out of the box’ solutions.
madam president, although the european qualifications framework has been a significant driver of reforms in the setup of national frameworks, as the commission is also aware, not all the objectives of the 2008 recommendation were reached in terms of comparability and portability of qualifications. this is why, if we take european cross-border mobility of learners and workers and lifelong learning seriously, it is important that we make qualifications more transparent and understandable across different countries and different educational systems. one of the greatest challenges in referencing national systems in a common framework is posed by the changes over time in qualification systems. this makes it necessary to keep referencing activity constant and up to date, especially considering the increasing proliferation of international sectoral, industry-based training and certifications. i would especially welcome if the commission could provide more details on this.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the house for today’s debate that shows the importance we all attach to the european qualifications framework (eqf). i will not go into the details of your questions one by one, but i would like to stress that the eqf is a tool to make skills and qualifications more transparent. it is not about automatic recognition or the harmonisation of national qualifications frameworks. secondly, the eqf revision builds on the achievements of the recommendation of 2008, and it will make the eqf a more effective tool adapted to the reality of today and to the evolving nature of qualifications. and finally, the future success of the eqf is in the hands of member states and stakeholders, who are in charge of implementation. the commission’s role will be one of support. i count on your continued support for the eqf and for other initiatives within the european skills agenda. it is our joint responsibility to offer citizens the necessary tools to develop their skills and find the jobs that are right for them. this counts especially for the still more than 19 million unemployed people in our union. skills are of the utmost importance for them, so we are working on this, including by improving the eqf. this is only one of our actions to create more jobs, more growth and fairness in our union.
in writing. the european qualifications framework for lifelong learning is a crucial tool for improving the employability and mobility of european citizens. we live in a constantly changing world where the demands of the labour market are increasing, requiring rapid and continuous adaptation of knowledge, skills and abilities. unfortunately, education systems are not following this dynamic and the recognition of non-formal and informal learning outcomes is still very limited, negatively impacting on the employment and career opportunities of a significant part of the population, especially for people from vulnerable groups. i therefore believe that the review of this qualifications framework must also take into account the increased visibility and importance of skills acquired outside the classroom, which will facilitate equal opportunities in a more open, tolerant and inclusive europe.
mr. president, the data we have on food waste is shocking. 88 million tonnes of food were wasted in the european union in 2012, and globally almost a third of food ends up in landfills. the real cost is huge because it reflects the costs involved in producing food with energy, water, transportation, fertilizer and everything that holds the soil. equally high are the associated costs: carbon emissions, water pollution, degradation of soil and ecosystems. all of these are consequences of overproduction. food waste only stimulates this overproduction, which over time diminishes the ability of agricultural land to provide food for a growing population in the future. as my colleagues have said, it's also a moral and political issue, not just a dietary one. enormous amounts of food are wasted, while a very large number of europeans, including children, are facing poverty and malnutrition. the resolution tabled by the environment committee makes some important and practical proposals, and work has already begun on common definitions and methodologies to combat this phenomenon. i call on my colleagues to support these proposals, as well as the mandatory measures proposed to be applied at european union level that are necessary to combat food waste along the entire food chain.
in writing. the target of reducing food waste by 30% by 2025 and by 50% by 2030 (compared to 2014 levels) cannot be achieved without the involvement of all actors in the food supply chain and without relevant analyses of the causes of food waste and identification of the food sectors with the highest food waste, with a view to identifying solutions to prevent it. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to involve national authorities and industry partners in carrying out information campaigns to help consumers understand the best before and use by labels. in this context, i consider it useful to involve the eu platform on food loss and food waste in supporting the implementation of consumer food information and education programmes, facilitating cooperation of local stakeholders in food waste prevention and food donation initiatives, and evaluating good practices already implemented in different member states in order to better define effective tools to reduce food waste.
in writing. while some people (around 800 million people globally) barely have enough to eat, others can afford to throw away kilograms of food periodically, generating unprecedented, immoral and unethical food waste. as such, all stakeholders (institutions, organisations, households, industries, traders, distributors, research institutes, etc.) must contribute to combating food loss and reducing waste. the united nations sustainable development goal of halving food waste by 2030 can be achieved by the combined efforts of all the actors involved in this major environmental impact phenomenon and by a holistic approach to all relevant policies at union and member state level. reducing waste and improving food security can be the direct result of changing the consumption behaviour of the population, through a process of empowering each individual, and information and persuasion are absolutely necessary to this end. limiting food losses can be achieved through the use of economic and fiscal incentives to facilitate the donation of safe and edible food. a clear definition of food waste also leads to its recovery as a safe feed resource.
madam president, commissioner, the fight against illicit trade is a necessity. we need to increase fair trade, illicit trade kills first of all smes, it kills european industry. the customs union and the implementation of the union customs code introduced in 2016 risk being inefficient due to the delay in adequate financing of it systems. i also think that the type of sanction, criminal or administrative, in the event of a breach of customs provisions should be clarified. commissioner, the european union has agreements on customs cooperation and mutual administrative assistance with south korea, canada, the usa, india, china, japan. these are the countries that are responsible for most of the illegal and counterfeit products, and this is where you have to act: the commission must act on the basis of agreements, you must defend the internal market. i think that there is a need for a more thorough analysis of the situation of illicit trade and i think that you, the commission, should come to the responsible committees of the european parliament and present a report to see what is happening, how this situation is improving, how we are succeeding in moving from illicit trade to fair trade and obviously to establish concrete measures for the next period. i also strongly believe that there is a need to protect the geographical indications of agri-food products: here too, people's health is at risk. also, in textiles, where we have alarming situations, there are situations where children, women, people have gotten sick from products treated with improper dyes and chemicals.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to say that i support the report and congratulate the rapporteur and all those who contributed. as the rapporteur has said, the development of e-government is a key element of the digital single market, but it is important to develop secure, reliable cross-border services to avoid market fragmentation. but unfortunately, there is a major difference between rural and urban areas in terms of internet connectivity. in 2015, only 28% of european households in rural areas are connected. i welcome the introduction of e-codex which allows direct communication between citizens and courts in all member states, but what do we do with citizens who do not have these connections? i think with the development of e-government there is a need to increase security and defence against cyber attacks . i believe that citizens' digital skills need to be improved, otherwise investments in e-government will not achieve their goal and of course, in conclusion, commissioner, i believe that the number one priority is to be connections in both rural and urban areas.
the need to build and develop e-government services is now closely linked to the functioning of democracies. citizens view the performance of public functions as a service, which they receive in exchange for the taxes they pay. the institutions of the union should promote this service-oriented approach, which has not yet been adopted in all member states. the widespread use of e-services is also a natural consequence of this service-provider approach. in line with the rapporteur, we should also point out that the modernisation of public services is not only a matter of information technology developments. an efficient and citizen-friendly public administration staff that personally addresses the needs of the population remains key. such an efficient public administration can also strengthen citizens' confidence in democracy and the capacity of the state to act, and it is therefore in the interest of all states to devote specific resources to the development of this area.
madam president, the report on the european e-government action plan 2016-2020 reiterates the need for public administrations to switch to digital technology, to collaborate more with each other at european level, but also to introduce mechanisms that allow better data interconnection. the benefits are significant: from lower costs to significant savings in time and resources for citizens. but i can't talk today about the benefits of digitization without referring to the wannacry cyberattack. europol estimates that there are in total over two hundred thousand victims in almost the whole world. many institutions in europe were affected, we're talking sometimes about patients who couldn't access their data, many european companies were blocked, for example, in romania, dacia factories had to shut down. it is interesting that a young man of only 22 years old accidentally blocked the attack, which shows that european administrations need to work together more, the mechanisms to combat cybercrime need to be strengthened, the agency responsible for cybersecurity needs to be reformed, and data protection needs to become a priority for everyone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent elections in some member states show that populism can be defeated, at least in continental europe. they prove that the illusions of false nationalist solutions have been firmly rejected by the citizens. europeans are certainly more mature than some commentators would have us believe. but i think the european union needs to win in all the member states and not just in a few. in some countries, victories are electoral, while in others, a union victory would mean, for example, that those countries are treated much better and much more fairly in the european construction. romania, ladies and gentlemen, a truly pro-european country, has for years deserved to be included in the schengen area. romania deserves to be rid of the shameful stigma of cvm. for our union to have a solid future, all member states that, like romania, support a more integrated, stronger and closer to the citizens europe must be equal. happy birthday to you, europe!
madam president, commissioner, i would like you to listen to me. today is international family day and i want to raise a desperate case: a romanian citizen, mrs camelia smicală, who has been living in finland for 12 years, has had all her rights, human rights, children's rights, violated. two minors were brutally taken from their home and taken (and separated from the children) to placement centers, the woman not being informed of a court order that her finnish husband had obtained. moreover, on april 28, she was sentenced to six months in prison for defaming the authorities who took the children two years ago. what are we doing, parliament, the commission to really protect the family? placing the child in state custody should be the last option when we want to protect children. we want to protect the kids from the mother? i'm a mother, and i don't think any mother who is healthy and can take care of her children should ever be separated from her children. i ask the commission to investigate this case and to ask the finnish authorities to leave the children with the mother.
a few months ago, in the fall of 2016, i was talking here about how the fight against corruption in romania, despite its obvious positive aspects, has serious overreach. i said then that they were using a hungarian-language school in romania to completely dismantle the corruption charges in the market square. i can repeat that today because the situation has not been resolved since then, and in fact, parents are being questioned by anti-corruption prosecutors and are being intimidated and discouraged. the authorities' objective is clear: to question the functioning and future of the school. how exactly this is derived from the noble goals of the fight against corruption, or whether there are other reasons behind it, i leave to your judgment. however, it is clear that the problems of national minorities need to be addressed at european level, as detailed in the minority safepack european citizens' initiative registered by the commission. i therefore ask you to support the initiative in the coming period, as the president of the european parliament has done, because its success will be the success of the european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 1921 the ioan cantacuzino institute of serums and vaccines was established in bucharest, a scientific centre which has played an important role in the health of romanians and not only romanians. at european union level, the cantacuzino institute is part of the strategic network on which europe's rapid response to a widespread epidemic depends. these institutions are essentially the main response unit in a widespread epidemic, but are totally neglected in the management of the european union, and their staffing, training and operation are left to the member states. in other words, in the event of a continental biological crisis we expect a generalized response from a nationally administered institution, a response that will certainly not be the one we want. i am personally campaigning for a legislative project to bring funding for the cantacuzino institute and similar european institutes from national budgets to the european union budget, the aim being to provide a functioning system through which europe can respond effectively, in real time, to one of the worst-case scenarios, whether it is a pandemic or a biological attack. please join me in this endeavor.
blue-card question. – besides the moral duty of the member states, as mentioned here by the commissioner, do you not think that the member states should also meet their legal obligations to accept migrants, and that perhaps it is time for the european institutions to think about imposing sanctions on the countries that do not accept immigrants?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure my dear colleague, i listened carefully to what you said and, at least i, i understood that you consider the transfer and relocation project to be perfect. i do not share that view and i ask you: do you not think that to succeed in this project, better communication from the commission to the member states is needed? in order to increase the acceptance of citizens, we cannot say, as the commissioner has said here, that we must take care of the security of the schengen area. and what should the other countries do: accept only refugees? thank you. thank you.
in writing. transfer and relocation are necessary policies to solve the refugee crisis, but we must also consider prevention. when there is a fire, we act to put it out, but then we have to check the cause and who is to blame. the fact that we have to protect 23,000 unaccompanied minors is beyond dispute. children must be protected! but has anyone looked into how unaccompanied children end up here? what do we do to stop it? then the process of transferring migrants doesn't have to be one-way. the commission should clearly set out how asylum seekers will be repatriated. and then, commissioner, you must clearly communicate a common policy on the security of european citizens. you cannot continue to ask all states to accept migrants, but talk about ensuring the security of the schengen area only. my country is unjustly not part of the schengen area. what can i explain to my fellow citizens about the obligations to welcome migrants, but at the same time to exclude them from security measures? i believe as a humanist that rights and obligations should be the same for every european citizen.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on making the most of globalisation by 2025 (2017/2655 (rsp)).
i hope that if the commissioner accepts your suggestion she will have an assured place of work in europe!
mr president, the reflection paper presented by the commission last week comes at the right time to feed our collective thinking on the future of europe by 2025. globalisation is a fact which must of course be integrated into our analysis as a potential opportunity to be exploited, rather than presented as the source of all the ills of our society. of course, it is wrong to say that globalization is the root of all evil. this is causing a retreat into oneself, the rise of populism of all kinds and the return of protectionism which - this is the paradox - does not protect enough and is an illusion. today, to speak of protectionism is really a bit unreasonable. to take full advantage of this opportunity offered by globalisation, europe must invent a distinctive identity for itself, and from the point of view of foreign affairs, which i deal with on a daily basis, this means promoting stronger international cooperation to establish an international order based on rules and high standards. opening up markets and technological advances are not incompatible with the protection of human rights and the protection of welfare. that's our philosophy. i believe that the european union is a successful example of economic openness based on rules and on the protection of rights. we have a duty to take the lead and continue to defend this combination of open markets and rights. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i think your question is based on a misunderstanding of what the market is. as my colleague from the conservative group, mr henkel, said earlier, the market is the movement of goods, people or ideas, and everyone benefits from what he has at his best. sometimes it is interesting for a worker to accept a lower salary than the one you receive if he comes from bulgaria or romania, for example. sometimes it is a frenchman who wants to promote an idea that has not yet been invented in poland or latvia. the result is this complex reality called the market. they are goods, people, and each one benefits from the best they have - a capacity for work, for thinking, for invention. that's the deal. that's not what you want to do by isolating one country or another.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for this important reflection paper that represents food for thought for all of us considering the future of the european union. many europeans, particularly young ones, see how being connected with people in other countries and continents can improve their lives. they are right to do so. around a third of national income in the european union comes from trade with the rest of the world. but, at the same time, many europeans are also apprehensive. they see globalisation as synonymous with job losses, social injustice and low environmental health and privacy standards. now is therefore the time to consider what the european union can do to shape globalisation in line with our shared interests and values, to ask what we can do to protect, defend and empower european citizens, especially the most vulnerable, and to agree on how the european union, from its institutions to member states, regions, municipalities, social partners, wider civil society, businesses, universities and its international partners, can come together to harness globalisation.
mr president, the benefits of globalisation in both rich and poor countries are often invisible, easily taken for granted and easily forgotten in times when people are feeling distressed about it. as is rightly pointed out in the reflection paper, globalisation is an overall positive force for change in europe for wide groups – exporters, consumers, students, researchers and so on – and it has also lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty across the globe. globalisation is a fact, and there is no magic on-off switch to it. even if we closed borders to trade, capital and people, it would not solve economic inequalities. instead, it would definitely cause more harm. eastern europeans with experience of communism know that better than most. what we should do, however, is to upgrade our policies, which have not kept pace with the opening of markets and technological disruption. we have done far too little up to now to make globalisation work for everybody. it is time to change that.
thank you mr president, mr commissioner, i think you'll like what i'm saying now just the first part. i liked the honesty with which you presented globalization, the opportunities and challenges, the dangers. it is an analysis which i consider very sincere, but it obliges you, commissioner, it obliges you to convince the commission that the internal market of the european union is suffering. i have said it before and i say it again today: trade agreements must be made on a win-win basis. if we have this imbalance in the trade agreement, smes will be the first to be ruined, eu producers will suffer and, ultimately, consumers, because high european standards are good for consumer protection. but let's check entry to the market against the same standards and let's not let counterfeit enter, triple counterfeit, on price, on structure, on composition, on brand, which actually leads to job destruction and consumer protection. please, commissioner, convince the commission that trade agreements must be made in this spirit.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – developed countries have led the way in many of the new technologies. however, competition will increasingly come from emerging economies that are rapidly moving up the value chain. the divide between more technologically advanced regions and those that are less advanced risks widening unless governments invest in education, equip their citizens with the right skills, encourage innovation, ensure fair competition and regulate smartly where needed. if globalisation is to succeed, it must succeed for poor and rich alike. it must deliver rights no less than it delivers riches. it must provide social justice and equality as much as economic prosperity and enhanced communication. a more interconnected world will bring new opportunities as well as increased threats, so there should be an upgrade of our policies, which have not kept pace with the opening of markets and technological disruption. we have done far too little up to now to make globalisation work for everybody. it is time to change that. i welcome the commission’s reflection paper on harnessing globalisation as i believe globalisation can be beneficial where it is properly harnessed.
in writing. i am convinced that the process of globalisation will not only continue in the coming years, but will also accelerate. those politicians who think they can protect jobs by some measures to limit the effects of globalisation will soon find that such measures are ineffective. if at the end of the last century, globalisation was accelerated mainly by the collapse of the socialist economic system and the unprecedented expansion of the market economy, today this process is being driven further by technological progress. the european union must therefore support the training of a workforce capable of responding to the demands of globalisation, modern infrastructure and innovation. in this way, europe will remain attractive for investment and business and will not become an open-air museum.
the european union is funding reforms in bosnia with almost eur 900 million until 2019. this year alone, we are sending 44 million euros to bosnia. but the dayton peace accords of 1995 created institutions that are not functioning today. maybe it was necessary then to end the war, but today they're making this country unworkable. you can only pass a law in each republic, the republika srpska, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina, plus the cantons of bosnia and herzegovina, as such it is practically non-functional and that needs to be remedied, because the war is over, i repeat, and the country needs to move forward. for bosnia to have a european future, politicians in sarajevo must implement political and administrative reforms, fight corruption, take measures to reduce unemployment. thank you. thank you.
e-government is vital for governance in the public interest. a digital portal should be created for open and transparent access to information by citizens and smes. digitalisation is about the mandatory provision of data, but at the same time about the accessibility of the information that people or smes want. people need direct and quick access to information every day, whether it's just about administration, taxation or healthcare. broadband expansion is essential for fast connectivity, especially in romania, where 47% of the population lives in rural areas.
i thank you, mr president, i supported this report, i voted for it, but in the discussions and in the debate i said why it should not remain just a plan of action on paper. we have a lot of rural problems. there are only 28 percent of the rural population connected to the internet. we cannot do e-government in the internal market if we don't connect the rural environment. we also need to increase the skills of citizens, not just administrative workers. the citizen must also have computer skills in relation to the administration. and then let's not forget about the cyber attacks these days. we need to provide protection. and we have to do these things at the same time, and we have to really develop e-government because it brings in a lot of profit, it fights corruption, it increases productivity, and obviously it increases the level of information of citizens. we need a plan, but we also need to be concerned about how we give cohesion funds to poor and remote areas so as not to discriminate against these citizens.
thank you. thank you. in 2014, vat was less than eur 160 billion of the actual vat revenue. in addition, the amounts fraudulently misappropriated over the past three years have steadily increased. there is still no unified, unifying, uniform data system that can be compared between member states. as such, it's hard to measure what everyone does and how they collect and where they go wrong. but this one's probably made especially for you, too. that is why it is imperative, in conclusion, to support and speed up the establishment of a european anti-fraud office which is independent, effective, impartial and which works against fraud and, above all, we should not forget, has the power to seize assets alleged to have been fraudulently misappropriated or money, so that it can be confiscated.
thank you, mr president, i said from the beginning that i voted in favour of this report. i said in the debate and i want to repeat it now: fraud is happening across borders, the statistics show that it is particularly the vat, which is also the tax that supports national budgets the most. i cannot help but say that in the trade agreements with the countries that the european union has, that is exactly where a lot of counterfeit products come from, counterfeit in price, counterfeit in quantity or in composition. that is why i think it is good to have this report, but we will not be able to do so unless the customs union works and the customs union will not work unless the computer systems for data transmission are financed. and i'm all for seizing assets but only when fraud is proven, not when it's suspected.
thank you, mr. president, i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur. yes, it was not easy, and it is never easy to get a report, but today we debated and voted on two important reports. the fight against fraud and illicit trade are two things we have to worry about and they will not be able to do it unless there is cooperation, a transfer of data because, as i said, illicit trade is also becoming cross-border, there are unsupervised imports. it is necessary for the member states to work together in this regard and we must say that both illicit trade and fraud are like a cancer for smes, especially for entrepreneurs who work properly, but they are also a danger for the citizen because not only the food imports that the rapporteur was talking about, but toys, clothing and all other products can be a danger for consumers. that is why i supported the report, but we must ask the commission, as i said in the debate, to keep us informed of any improvements that may be made or of any new measures that may be taken to achieve positive results.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, today i will speak mainly about the future because we have to make every effort to ensure that there is a future for the people of syria. we have to ensure that one of the main objectives of the eu strategy on syria is to facilitate a political solution, which should also include a un monitoring and enforcement mechanism. moreover, we have to make sure that the european union plays the most effective and active role possible within the existing un agreed negotiating framework. the european union is the largest donor to the syrian crisis and, through the last brussels conference, has committed itself to making a substantial post—conflict contribution to reconstruction. madam high representative, we thus call on you to leverage this significant financial contribution in order to play the most immediate and important role in the negotiation process and to ensure that a fair and just political transition will come about as soon as possible for the syrian people. we cannot leave this in the hands of an illegitimate regime that has slaughtered its own citizens for so many years. we cannot allow this to continue with the support of syria’s allies, russia and iran. we cannot let down the syrian moderate opposition or the people of syria. they are the ones to invest in and to protect if we want any kind of future for syria – even more so now after the dreadful chemical attack in khan sheikhoun. civilians continue to suffer and to be targeted. respect for the ceasefire has been violated many times, so we need to ensure that, finally, we have a ceasefire and, at the same time, that humanitarian workers will be allowed access. it is also very important to ensure that the recent memorandum on the setting-up of the de—escalation zone, signed by russia, turkey and iran, will not allow further targeting of the syrian moderate opposition. one key concept in all of this is ‘early accountability’. it is fundamental now to bring justice, balance and moderation for any future government. perpetrators should be brought to justice: they have to face criminal justice and be sanctioned by international law.
mr president, madam high representative, i will begin by referring to the conference on the future of syria which took place last month in brussels and whose conclusion was very clear: a sound and credible political transition is needed. and for that credibility to be achieved, we need transitional justice and the fight against impunity to be at the heart of the transition. that is why i proposed a few months ago that we should work on this issue in parliament and i have just written a report on the union's strategy to punish genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. i believe that the need to prosecute members of daesh as well as the syrian regime for crimes committed in syria is a line to be followed. this issue needs to be addressed urgently as evidence of murders, rapes, torture and genocide against christians, yazidis and other communities is disappearing. so we need to collect and preserve evidence now, or we won't be able to prosecute the perpetrators. i believe that the union also has a role to play at diplomatic level with the united nations security council, so that it can refer the situation in iraq and syria to the international criminal court. in this situation, the second option would be to support the creation of an international tribunal for syria, to which i would add iraq once again. i believe that the only option we have is to rule out any expectation and move forward in that direction.
mr president, the appalling consequences of the syrian conflict that erupted six years ago amount to possibly the worst humanitarian tragedy in recent world history. the continuing horrific actions taking place, from violence by terrorists to military actions against civilians, including those in hospitals, have long made us feel helpless and desperate. however, we should be hopeful that one day soon is will be thrown out of raqqa by the american-backed coalition forces. we should be fully prepared for that moment so that when the time comes we can stand as strong guarantors of a genuinely inclusive political transition, and as reliable partners in the reconstruction of a stable syrian society. as the largest humanitarian and financial donor, we are in a good position to demand a strong say in the peace negotiations and in the reconstruction of the country.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, when we talk about christians in the middle east, we think first of all madam high representative also of the copts in egypt. it is true that their situation is worrying. this community has been savagely hit by a series of bombings. of course, their security must be strengthened and the egyptian authorities are making efforts to do so. i believe that this issue must be placed in the wider context of the persecution of christians in the middle east and that is why our political group has asked for this debate, not just to talk about the copts. it should be noted that the proclamation of the caliphate by the group known as daesh, or isis, is not only part of the war between shiites and sunnis, but is also directed against christians. it is a fact that daesh systematically targets christians and the term genocide has been used with good reason because it is precisely a desire to destroy christian communities. as the high representative also said, the disappearance of christians in the middle east would be a tragedy, marking the end of diversity and of diverse societies. i think we are in complete agreement and i think it is absolutely necessary that we prevent it. the european union can act on several fronts, including by combating the use of religion in conflicts. we must be uncompromising in respecting and implementing the provisions of international law on religious freedom, but to do so we must recognize the nature of this conflict.
in writing. ▪ it is clear that christian communities are facing severe persecution in many parts of the world today. the middle east is one of those places in the world where in recent years, christian churches have been burned down in a series of attacks, and violence against the largest minority in the region has been escalating. all this is happening on paper under the authority of secular states that are allies of the european union in the fight against the islamic state. more and more people in the region are thinking that these states are not trying to prevent the violence against christians who have lived there for thousands of years. the situation is so dire that experts say that after 2,000 years of continuous presence, christianity may even disappear from the region where it was established. i think that europe, as a jewish-christian country, has a responsibility in this matter and cannot remain indifferent when faced with these phenomena. we are no longer talking about the free exercise of religion, but about religious persecution and serious violence against entire communities.
mr president, the human rights situation in russia is more and more worrying. it seems that at least 100 men have been detained in chechnya, russia, on suspicion of being gay and have suffered severe torture and humiliation in unofficial prisons. at least three men have been reported killed. many remain detained in prisons where they face torture and inhumane treatment in horrific conditions. regional authorities have denied the allegations and are responding by inciting further hatred against perceived homosexuals. national russian authorities continue to ignore this fact. the eu must act now. i support the question, as i believe the european external action service should inform us of the type of action they have taken in the specific case of chechnya. it is vital to raise this matter with the relevant russian authorities to ensure legal and physical protection for the victims and full respect for citizens’ human rights.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, dear colleagues, thank you so much for your intervention and thank you so much by showing this unity for this very important issue. we all share the concern about what is happening in chechnya. we all agree that this issue is completely unacceptable, and i personally believe that it is a shame, because we have to discuss this issue in the 21st century. the violence against the lgtbi community has given visibility to the disastrous situation of human rights in this russian republic. we will keep working with member states to support the victims and put pressure on the russian authorities to stop the violence and ensure justice for the victims. please be aware that some of our common efforts will require patience and confidentiality. we are all trying to help, definitely, but we cannot go public about everything that is being done. in some cases being effective is more important than being outspoken, for the sake of the people involved. i would like to say this because i know some cases on the ground. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this issue on the agenda. we have to continue the struggle in order to show our willingness, our strong conviction about the rights of the lgtbi community.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of my dear colleague, commissioner hahn, thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on the situation in moldova. both federica mogherini and johannes hahn are very closely monitoring the situation, with particular focus on the reforms and political developments. in our partnership with moldova, we have always tried to support change when it could bring tangible benefits to the people of moldova. let me recall that in the very first lines of our association agreement, the european union and moldova commit to some common principles. among them are the rule of law, good governance and cooperation between neighbours. these are not only eu values, they are european values that are part of our common heritage and are shared by all members of the council of europe. the council conclusions of 15 february 2016 already include a broad set of reforms that we believe will help moldova meet its full potential, making both its democracy and its economy stronger. on 13 march, we published our first association implementation report, which has identified issues to be addressed as a matter of priority. on 31 march, the association council was the opportunity to discuss progress in reforms in all fields. we have to acknowledge that the government and the parliament have taken many legislative steps, particularly last year. the reform process has finally been restarted after political instability had brought it to a deadlock. some efforts have been made in the banking sector and have contributed to restoring macro—financial stability and donors’ assistance. an agreement with the international monetary fund was reached in november 2016, thanks to which we could resume our budget support based on a thorough assessment of whether the conditions foreseen by the existing assistance programmes to moldova had been fulfilled. it also allowed us to propose a macro—financial assistance operation for moldova. in the justice and energy sectors, in the fight against corruption, as well as the public administration reforms, some legislative and regulatory steps have been already taken. however, many of the country’s key problems still persist: the politicisation of state institutions, corruption, lack of independence of the judiciary, much—delayed investigations on banking fraud. as you all know, on 5 may, the parliament adopted two draft laws at first reading that might lead to important changes in the moldovan political system. one, as tabled by the democratic party, would change the electoral system from proportional to uninominal, and a second, as proposed by president dodon, in favour of a mixed electoral system, half proportional and half uninominal. these two proposals have now been merged. a new draft was produced on the basis of president dodon’s proposals for review by the venice commission. it is expected that the venice commission, which has just visited moldova, will give its opinion by mid-june. let us be very clear on this proposed reform. it is not up to the european union to decide upon an independent country’s voting system. this should be up to the people of moldova – and we mean all of them, not only the parties in power. any change to the electoral system should be based on a broad consensus amongst political forces, on the broadest consensus among all political forces and within society. a new electoral law can have a significant impact on the quality of a country’s democracy, for better or worse. the council of europe has an important advisory role when it comes to democratic reforms, so we can only hope that moldova will listen carefully to the opinion of the venice commission. on our side, our economic support is aimed at accompanying reforms that can benefit the citizens of moldova. with the association agreement, we have set out together with our moldovan friends, the goals of our partnership. our financial support is intended precisely to favour the implementation of the association agreement. as far as the macro—financial assistance is concerned, the adoption of the decision does not mean its immediate implementation. each disbursement, including the first one, is conditional on the implementation of policy measures set out in the related memorandum of understanding. real accountability for elected officials is essential to the credibility of all democratic institutions. moldova has so far taken some steps towards a stronger democracy. the european union will work to help moldova stay on the path of a democracy that truly delivers on its citizens’ needs. thank you so much for your attention, and i look forward to hearing your interventions and your suggestions about the situation in moldova.
on behalf of the epp group. thank you, mr. president, i am against giving financial aid to moldova because we don't know where this money would go. in chisinau, everyone knows that a billion was stolen, but no one is responsible because justice does not work. in fact, it is not the citizens who would benefit from european aid, but the kleptocratic elites. the only argument put forward by chisinau in favour of granting this aid is that the government would be pro-european. it's not true. the government is not controlled by the parliament, but by an oligarch, mr. plahotniuc, who buys mps piece by piece, primarily communists. mr. plahotniuc recently got along with the country's president, dodon, who is a special character. he's the only socialist in the world to the left of the communists and completely subservient to moscow's interests. they want to introduce an electoral system that leads to a two-party system so that mr. plahotniuc's party and mr. dodon's party control the game. the pro-european coalition in chisinau has been left with an oligarch who is cooperating with a putin handyman. that's the reality on the ground. in these conditions, with press freedom being trampled underfoot, with the rule of law being a mere word, we cannot send money to be touched by these kleptocratic elites. there's a romanian saying: if you've been burned with soup, blow it into yogurt. that's what we need to do right now.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, if the republic of moldova is on the agenda of our plenary session today it is because this country is at the top of the european parliament’s priorities and moldova has the support and commitment of all political groups across this parliament on its european path. i want to acknowledge the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan people and the authorities and to convey a strong signal of support and encouragement at this important time, especially in relation to the positive impact of the current process of political association and economic integration. it is clear that, although some areas require additional efforts, overall there has been substantial progress since the start of the executive mandate. this week, this house will approve its mandate for the start of negotiations with the council and the commission for eu macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova. this assistance will be a sign of recognition of the renewed commitment to moving forward with necessary reforms and to addressing the country’s challenges by the current executive. in this regard i wish to underline that we will be applying rigorous, clear and strict conditionality criteria on disbursement, and this conditionality will be attached to the disbursement of each tranche, including the first one. this parliament has been most effective and successful when it has acted with full consensus on its line vis-à-vis the republic of moldova. the divisions and tensions amongst political parties in chişinau are more and more reflected within the european parliament and its political groups. i want to be very clear. i want to be crystal clear. this is not a positive development. as the european parliament we can only be effective if we are united and not politicised, if we have a strong, objective and institutional line instead of expressing our positions through the prism of our respective political partners in chişinau. and i want to personally thank all colleagues for their fair and constructive approach in this crucial period. i would like in particular to mention cristian preda and petrus auštrevičius. we are, of course, following closely the ongoing process of electoral reform. next week the eu-moldova parliamentary committee and the euronest parliamentary assembly will meet in chişinau. this will be an opportunity for the european parliament to meet its moldovan counterpart while we await the opinion of the venice commission on the draft law.
thank you, mr. president, moldova is a european state. it is very important geopolitically and you can see that from the russian federation's efforts to impose its point of view there. recently, the moldovan governments have made efforts to move closer to the union. politicians have different opinions, towards the union or towards the russian federation. it is our duty to encourage pro-european voices. we must continue to implement the agreement, we must continue to monitor it at the same time. the electoral law must be in line with the social realities of moldova. it is true that there are important risks when granting financial aid to a state that has problems with its legal system, its judiciary, with corruption, in general with the rule of law. at the same time, european voices need to be encouraged. not giving this aid would only encourage votes to russia. i believe that this aid should be granted, but its use should be monitored very carefully.
thank you, in countries with solid democracies the mixed uninominal voting system works. but in moldova, where 5% are very rich and the rest of the population is poor, very poor, under this system the rich will buy their country and parliament or parliament and country. add to that the daily propaganda and decriminalisation and disinformation of the propaganda made by the russian propaganda and also by the press owned by the oligarch plahotniuc, which leads to the disinformation and manipulation of the electorate or many of the voters. the union has invested heavily in moldova. since 2014 we have been able to travel without visas, we have built roads, schools, kindergartens, we have financed and continue to finance the public administration system, administrative reform and many other areas and we are happy to continue doing so. but the funding must be conditional on real reforms because that is what the population wants, it wants to continue and we want to continue the reforms in the sense of the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, but in reality, not in words but in deeds, the independence of the attorney general, the fight against money laundering or, finally, finding and recovering that stolen billion. all this has to happen, but, i repeat, moldova is a european country and we have a duty to get it to our side and not to let it go to the russian federation... (the president interrupted the speaker. )
thank you, mr president, today's debate is one that raises a lot of questions for us, the european union, if we want to continue to support the european path of the republic of moldova. it is not about the government, it can be criticized, it deserves to be criticized, the reforms are sometimes timed, sometimes ambiguous, but it is certain that the government in chisinau has shown a very clear will in its european aspiration. i will not talk about oligarchs or the political class, i do not think we need to have a black and white debate because the european union should essentially give a chance to the citizens of the republic of moldova and not to the political class. if we want these people to have a european chance, we must support them, we must be rigorous in the control of the money. these sums should not be suspended because they are urgently needed. i believe that the moldovans and the moldovan population, however simple, however easily manipulated, deserve this chance because they are all european citizens and we, when we decided that they should be with us, we understood and respected that.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a colleague of ours, mr auštrevičius, was wondering, quo vadis, where is the republic of moldova? we should tell mr auštrevičius, with all due respect to his majesty, that we, the european union and the european parliament must support this country in moving towards the european union, towards european values and not towards the east, towards the eurasian economic union, where mr dodon wants to take it, a president of a country who may go down in history on the grey side, the dark side of this country's history, as a head of state who generally advocates things against his own people, against his own citizens. the place of the republic of moldova is next to the countries of the european union. we cannot stop the financing to the republic of moldova, the financial assistance to the republic of moldova, because in this way the european union loses its only way to influence the way ... )
thank you, mr president, the european union wishes to help the citizens of the republic of moldova. that's why we've allocated eur 746 million in european funds, money from the european union budget for the seven years, 2014-2020. moreover, in the next year's budget of the european union, as the general rapporteur for the budget, i said: the three countries in the eastern neighbourhood of the european union which have signed association agreements with the european union must be a priority for the budget of the european union. in addition, we are ready to provide another eur 100 million to the republic of moldova this year, but we can only do this under very clear conditions: fighting corruption, combating money laundering, strengthening the judiciary and the proper functioning of the rule of law. these are the reforms that the citizens of the republic of moldova are waiting for. more than 65% of the citizens of the republic of moldova believe that, unfortunately, their country is heading in the wrong direction. so as we give funds to the republic of moldova, we have to make sure that the state is reforming, that it is modernizing, that it is meeting the expectations of the citizens of the republic of moldova. there are also reports from the court of auditors of the european union that european funds allocated to the republic of moldova can be used better. commissioner stylianides, you have been very clear on the reform of the electoral system in the republic of moldova: the venice commission is the supreme authority to evaluate reform proposals. i say this: the chisinau authorities must respect and implement the venice commission's opinion. if not, we won't be able to... the president interrupted the speaker. )
in writing. the granting of financial assistance to the republic of moldova should not be blocked! these funds are not for politicians, they're for people. we need to get out of the political logic and start to understand the stakes of this aid. we are talking about the european union's ability to understand that it is time to be pragmatic in its relationship with the republic of moldova and to demonstrate that we are here to support this country's journey towards development, democracy and a european future. without such help, the partisans of moldova's departure from the european path will gain and will use this opportunity to criticize the european union again. it is clear that assistance must be accompanied by major and structural reforms to improve the daily lives of moldovan citizens, but we cannot introduce political criteria in this regard. the european union must become proactive again in its relationship with the republic of moldova, it must be directly involved on the ground, show the benefits of the european future, be available to guide pro-european policymakers in the right direction for the citizens it represents, but above all it must not forget that this effort is first and foremost for the people, regardless of their political choice.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr president, first of all i want to congratulate the rapporteur for this very brave report which tackles a new topic, not discussed before in the european parliament; also vice-president dombrovskis for having participated in the many meetings we have had in the european parliament with those from fintech to try to identify how best to approach this subject based on strict rules, on a very clearly defined legislative framework or rather leaving flexibility to those who want to innovate, to those who want to invest in this new area. it's a challenge to think about what fintech will look like in the future since even the companies that are active in this field don't make business plans for a period longer than six months because they don't know exactly what the market will look like at that time. among the important issues we have addressed, it has been noted that many have wanted to take the side of either the banks or the intermediaries, which is not the case. we talk about the future, we talk about what the economy will look like in the future, we talk about progress, about innovation, about the fact that europe is already behind other areas of the globe, like the united states or asia. we need to give more credit to innovation in europe and we need to support companies that invest in research and innovation. it's also a very big opportunity that fintech gives to european citizens, the fact that we have more transparency, the fact that transfer fees and the prices for banking services are going down making access to these banking services much easier for a much wider category of the population is supporting the fight that we are fighting with social inequality, with the fight against poverty, with the fight against unemployment. i think fintech has a positive impact. sure, there are some challenges like the security of citizen data. it is also very important that this area does not distort markets too much. i've been talking to the european central bank, and they're doing tests to see how future virtual currencies will affect the european economy. i think we're at the beginning of the road. i think it is a very brave step that we have taken in this period and congratulations to the rapporteur once again and i am very optimistic that fintech will be part of our daily lives and will have a positive impact on the european economy.
thank you, mr. president, the technological advances in the financial sector are rapid and impressive. whether we're talking about online banking or we're talking about virtual currencies, or we're talking about the new vulnerabilities that are being created in this space. member states have started to adopt regulations on fintech and it is time to ask whether these national regulations do not create a new risk of fragmentation of financial markets. that is why i think we have an excellent report here and i congratulate the rapporteur and i will support the proposal made in this report for the european commission to adopt an action plan that will actually complement the strategies we have for both the digital single market and the european capital markets union. once again, thank you to everyone who worked on this report.
madam president, mr tusk, you have started this presentation with something that i like very much and that we ask and ask for: that the citizens, the four million citizens, should not suffer, and i think that this is a wise decision by the council. the second important point is the one about the agreement that will be between the uk and the european union. no one should be punished, but we should be careful: yesterday we discussed globalisation here. it is very important that the internal market of the european union should not suffer as a result of this agreement. there has to be a win-win agreement. eu companies should not suffer. last week president juncker was in my country and he saw that romania is pro-european. so we have to protect the citizens and make a trade deal that is beneficial for both sides and we don't have to, really, the citizens who voted to stay in the european union from the united kingdom -- because here it's being said as if all the citizens of the united kingdom wanted to leave -- want the citizens of the united kingdom to be protected as well.
madam president, with the theme of building the foundations of renewed trust, this year's g7 summit has the duty to encourage governments to adopt policies aimed at meeting the legitimate expectations of citizens in economic, social and security terms in a world torn by conflict. on the external front, there are many urgent issues that need to be addressed, including the ongoing violence and recent chemical weapons attacks in syria, support for ukraine's sovereignty, the nuclear threat from north korea, migration flows, global and regional security, the fight against daesh and violent extremism. we need to coordinate efforts, to promote a rules-based international order, to combat terrorism and violent extremism in an increasingly insecure world.
madam president, mr vice-president, unlike a colleague who said that the european union had no place in the g7, i believe that we must be present, the european union, at the g7. yes, the european union is not a country, but we have put together some values and we want to be represented, and as my colleague said earlier, we had a lot of discussion yesterday about globalization, i think it's very important to see how we relate to the other powers in the global world. russia is in. we have to see what we do with the relationship with russia, what do we do with the relationship with china, with the united states? there are embargoes between the european union and russia, european union producers are asking for opening up other markets. there are a lot of issues, not only security, but also economic issues, and i welcome your presence, but we also expect a concrete information with what was discussed and what results will be there. we look forward to it and wish you success!
mr president, the title chosen for this debate, ‘powers and control of the ecb’ is unfortunate, i have to say, as the ecb does not control, and nor should it be controlled by any political institution. the european central bank’s political, institutional and legal independence is fundamental to the fulfilment of its mandate, and i think we should be very clear on this. the ecb has remained an indispensable actor during and after the euro crisis of the past years. during this time, the ecb has acted within and on the verge of its mandate, in order to enable price stability and to achieve its monetary policy objectives. we have seen in january 2015 that the inflation rate was minus 0.6% and now we are seeing that we are very close to the 2% target. but of course with great power comes also great responsibility and democratic accountability. the ecb is directly accountable to the european parliament. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we have constant dialogue with the president and the vice-president, but clearly more has to be done. number one: cooperation of the ecb and the european parliament can still be further developed through more far-reaching communication between the two institutions and, number two: trust of the european citizens in the euro and in the ecb is of great concern to us. the public has to be able to understand the monetary policy of the ecb as transparency is vital for the credibility of the euro area and the trust which the people have in our common currency.
thank you very much, mr president, two things are important, i think, to be made clear: firstly, if we are talking about a much more successful, much more important, much more attractive euro area, then we will have to talk about solidarity within the euro union. we're going to have to talk about the member countries of the monetary union, the eurozone that are solidary with each other, countries with surpluses, countries with deficits. we have to understand that within the eurozone, we cannot have countries that are doing well and countries that are doing badly without there being repercussions. secondly, we have heard that the european central bank is not fulfilling its mandate. i think it fulfils its mandate very well, but unfortunately it is a narrow mandate, unfortunately it only concerns price stability, inflation in the euro area. i think we need a much stronger european central bank, a european central bank that also talks about growth, that also talks about fighting unemployment, a european bank that is about citizens first and only then about banks.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this report represents a new and important step towards facilitating the free movement of people and services in the european union. it enables european consumers who subscribe to online contact services acquired legally in their member state of residence to continue to access the service when they are temporarily in another member state. i congratulate all colleagues who worked on this report and salute the important contribution of the maltese presidency in making this happen. to be more exact, the portability regulation ensures that consumers can use portable online contact services which offer access to music, games, films, entertainment programmes or sporting events not only in the member state of residence but also when they are temporarily present in another eu country for purposes such as leisure, travel, business trips or learning mobility. we are speaking about almost 6% of the european population, around 30 million people, and the number could grow by 2020 up to 70 million beneficiaries. this regulation includes not only people who travel but also students studying abroad, people who work for a limited period of time in another member state or cross-border commuters. i am glad to say that we, the european parliament, secured in the trilogue important achievements, defended strongly also by my group, the socialists and democrats. i refer here to: the absence of specific time limitations; the deletion of the formulation ‘regularly returns’; the closed links for the means of verifications; the restrictive ip checking in binary format; the safeguards in terms of data protection; the promotion of study mobility as an example for the use of portability; or the provisions that allow the waiver of the mandatory verification of the member state of residence. these are great achievements, and it is important to mention that the european parliament promoted them, but we have also to be clear that this report is implemented without affecting either the copyright protection framework or the principle of territoriality. i really believe this regulation is an important step for building a common market, but also a common society where european citizens feel free to move in any member state without restrictions or limitations.
mr. president, thank you. first of all, i'd like to congratulate mr. cavada on his hard work. i appreciate that this report is an important step forward in what it means to define every corner of the european union as 'home' for every european citizen. in this context, the free movement of persons must be accompanied by access to the internet and digital technologies at reasonable cost, with respect for copyright and a balance between providers of such services. the adoption of this report addresses the needs of citizens and offers solutions that will remove the restrictions that prevented them from benefiting from digital content on their journeys. europe must take advantage of the digital revolution that has transformed the world in all ways and in all areas, offering opportunities for citizens but also for businesses. an important step is the cross-border portability of online content services. with the entry into force of this measure, the share of mobile users of online subscriptions is expected to increase to approximately 72 million people in the european union by 2020. the elimination of roaming charges, the unblocking of electronic commerce, the portability of online content services across member states create the conditions for a digital single market and a single space. in this way, citizens and businesses can operate, innovate and interact without barriers and in safety, thus ensuring prosperity for all.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, not long ago this plenary debated the new rules on reinforced border checks. i am happy for this opportunity to debrief you on the state of play since these new rules came into effect on 7 april and the results achieved so far. but first, let me recall why these new rules were adopted. the aim is to increase the internal security of the european union as a whole, and the systemic checks are also to address in particular the threat from foreign terrorist fighters. the extended negotiations ensured the right balance between the security needs and the freedom of movement. during this lengthy period, member states have had the time to prepare for the entry into force of these new rules. the commission has provided financial support to member states to make the necessary investments at the border crossings. thanks to this preparation, in many member states the waiting time due to the new rules has not caused excessive delays, but indeed, in some cases, the waiting time at the external borders has increased. in particular at the land border between slovenia and croatia the waiting time exceeded a few hours during the easter holiday period. however, we should note that even before the new rules started applying, some crossing points at this border section experienced occasional delays of up to two hours. commissioner avramopoulos and his services are in close contact with the croatian and the slovenian authorities to find the operational solutions to the situation at this specific border section. as a follow-up to the discussion between president juncker and the croatian and slovenian prime ministers in the margins of the european council on 29 april, an on-the-spot visit took place on 8 and 9 may at the most affected border crossing points. following this visit, all parties agreed on operational guidance on the implementation of the new rules. this will take into account the specific situation of this border section to limit the impact of the new rules at this specific border to the minimum. to sum up, we are doing our best to ensure increased security at all external borders while minimising the impact on eu citizens, as foreseen in the new schengen border code.
on behalf of the ecr group. thank you. in the context of the entry into force of the amended schengen regulation on 7 april this year, it is important to know that at the european commission there are funds for the internal security of the union from which each country has received money through national programmes, and the money must be used. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. and slovenia received money to ensure the flow of traffic for those crossing the slovenian-croatian border. so did hungary and all the other countries. how this money was spent and how much was accessed by member states is very important. first, mobile and fixed scanners must be purchased so that identity data of persons crossing the border can be quickly checked against databases. a check like this takes ten seconds. if the single screen of the scanner shows a problem with that person then it's checked separately. the rest of the people are passing quickly. that is why i hope that slovenia, hungary, romania and other countries that have not yet done so will do so as soon as possible, precisely to help those who cross the border to do so quickly and to ensure their safety and their lives and health.
blue-card question. – just a very short question: isn’t it better to ask our governments why they did not use the money they had at their disposal for at least two years to buy the equipment? this is what they should have done, and this what they should do – not that the regulation should have been adopted. the money was there. some member states did not fulfil their duties. let us make them fulfil their duties and buy this equipment on the money from the commission.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure thank you very much, dear colleague. i agree with much of what you said. of course, the way that traffic is done across borders can lead to the development of trade, to the development of tourism, and at the same time to security. i did not understand why you said that there should be restrictions between slovenia and austria. within the european union, do you think we should have more restrictions? i believe there should be one european union, one market.
blue-card question. – madam president, i would say to my dear colleague that in fact we all support attempts to increase security at external borders, and as a consequence within the schengen area. but considering this support could create havoc at the external borders, with the introduction of additional checks, do you think that this would bring additional security benefits? i do not.
ladies and gentlemen, before tomorrow's vote and before the commission presents the mobility package, i note that the differences of opinion have deepened. i hope we all want to promote social rights for workers, decent wage rights, the right to rest, but we have not been able to agree on definitions. we use the same words and seem to want the same things, but we fail to find a common direction. we don't yet have a technical definition of what social dumping is and we insist on blaming eastern companies for what is simply a competitive advantage due to the local economic situation. this resolution and the future road package must focus on the real problem, namely the existence of letter box companies that exploit eastern european drivers and we know very well that these companies come from western europe. we should also insist on the idea of a european road agency, an initiative which this institution, the european parliament, has already voted on twice in the white paper on transport and in the report on social dumping. i think we need to move from talk to action if we really want an integrated european road transport market and an efficient and fair transport system.
blue-card question. – mr kelly, you know i appreciate very much your activity within the european parliament. i want to ask you if you support the trade unions’ request aimed at making the forthcoming road mobility package a better enforcement of social rights and to avoid current cases of social dumping?
thank you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have to be very realistic about the situation. we need a single transport market. if we are talking about the single market, we must also think about this activity. at the same time, we have to be very honest with ourselves: there is not enough ethics and fair work yet. there are still discriminations between workers in one country and workers in another, between large companies and small companies. and i am glad that the commissioner has presented here that the mobility package proposes to clarify the circumstances in which the minimum wage is paid in a particular country, because many colleagues here have noticed this. drivers are taken from one side and, although the activity is carried out in one country, the driver is paid with the salary of the country where the salary is lower. then improving working conditions. but let's be honest here. there is a difference in the economic development of the member states' countries and we need to link this mobility package with the cohesion funds as well. there's no infrastructure like it. who can balance a table with four legs that have each leg of a different length? commissioner, i am putting my hopes in this package, but there must be a correlation with the other projects.
in writing. the road transport legislative package to be proposed in the coming weeks must provide solutions to the major problems currently facing the sector. road passenger and freight transport companies need a clear legislative framework to generate growth and jobs. the commission must take into account for future european legislation that transport must be more competitive and contribute positively to territorial cohesion. we cannot talk about a long-term transport strategy without focusing on the development of european road infrastructure, vehicle technology and the interoperability of transport systems and modes. road safety must be the first priority, which is why the necessary steps must be taken to develop the 'vehicle-to-vehicle' and 'vehicle-to-infrastructure' communication infrastructure. the commission should harmonise existing rules on electronic road tolls, monitoring of cabotage operations, electronic and signalling systems, on-board digital devices, safety equipment. i would stress that the freedom to provide transport services throughout the eu is the basis of the internal market in the road sector. this fundamental right of workers must respect working conditions and rest periods, as well as access to qualifications and training, and the health and safety of drivers.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their approach to such an important area as cohesion policy. the union's cohesion policy has proven its effectiveness, providing undeniable evidence of the european union's ability to support growth and recovery objectives. in this financial year, as the commissioner also stressed, it is important that there is increased flexibility for beneficiaries through a wide range of instruments, and that the private sector is involved in the form of co-investments or know-how. i also welcome the involvement of the european investment bank in cohesion policy and, in particular, its support to national and local authorities to improve the quality of projects, as well as its contribution to attracting other investors for projects in disadvantaged regions by reducing risks.
mr president, commissioner, cohesion policy must be at the heart of the european union's action. if we look at the results so far, unless we are being dishonest, we are not saying that we have benefited from cohesion policy. the aim of the policy was established from the outset as an instrument to develop the poorer areas, to reduce the differences in the living standards of citizens. we need to continue to provide cohesion funds and we need to avoid delays in payments to which farmers are entitled under the cap. commissioner, you have acted and supported cohesion policy and we thank you. we want you to support the creation of a multi-regional investment platform for agriculture that is eligible for funding from the rural development programme. we believe, and i think we must not forget, that there is a big difference between the areas, the regions of europe in the area of infrastructure, in transport, education, health. solutions must be found to ensure that cohesion funds reach these areas. thank you and good luck!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on putting this issue on the agenda. it is important to reiterate the importance of european cohesion policy and the role it plays in reducing development gaps and for the prosperity of the european union. in this regard, i would like to congratulate commissioner corina creţu again. its efforts to make these investments more visible, but also to focus resources on the key areas and objectives for europe's development, have borne fruit and should be further supported. however, there are colleagues or political leaders who want cohesion policy to disappear by creating financial mechanisms in which social or geographical distribution criteria do not matter. we must not privatise cohesion policy, we must not hand cohesion policy over to financial and banking institutions, and in this, commissioner, you have our full support. the revision of the multiannual financial framework or the future financial framework should not affect cohesion policy as it is a key instrument in the future development of the european union. thank you. thank you.
in writing. the most important role of cohesion policy is to reduce the gaps between europe's regions. when determining the sources of funding for cohesion policy and the relationship between them, we must keep this objective in mind. increasing the proportion of financial instruments in cohesion policy should in no way replace the current grant system, as this would create an imbalance in public policies. each member state should be able to determine the ratio between financial instruments and grants, because there is no one-size-fits-all formula. it is unacceptable for the commission to impose the compulsory use of certain financial instruments. the more national authorities are involved in the decision-making process, the better the results will be. there are countries, such as romania, which currently have a great need for grants and do not have the capacity to replace them with financial instruments. the fact that these countries are obliged to use financial instruments in cohesion policy shows that the commission is in fact putting the financial interests of certain financial institutions and intermediaries above cohesion policy.
in writing. cohesion policy is the eu's main investment arm, delivering value to citizens, whether it is creating new jobs or providing quality transport infrastructure. this policy has benefited all eu member states and has been an important support for countries such as romania, especially during the economic crisis. it is true that the implementation of cohesion policy has not been perfect so far and member states still face difficulties in absorbing funds and developing quality projects. the benefits of these funds are clear, however, and outweigh the current deadlocks. cohesion policy must therefore remain a priority for europe, so as not to further exacerbate the development gaps between regions. as regards the future of cohesion policy, i wholeheartedly support the allocation of more funds and the prioritisation of central and eastern european states in their redistribution, on the basis of the principle of solidarity, so that imbalances are corrected. last but not least, the added value of this policy for the relationship between the eu and its citizens is undeniable: by investing in key sectors, cohesion funds generate jobs and economic growth, thus responding to the needs of european citizens.
in writing. the future of eu cohesion policy after 2020 must be decided through a transparent debate based on concrete arguments and realistic assessments. it is no exaggeration to say that this debate is an essential part of the wider debate on the future of the eu. solidarity is at the heart of european integration, and an eu without cohesion has no future. the effective implementation of cohesion policy is a precondition for the success of the europe 2020 strategy. smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is the eu's answer to the challenges it faces. the reduction of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) by offering an alternative to the use of the european fund for strategic investments (juncker plan) is not an acceptable solution as only the cohesion funds ensure a fair, balanced territorial distribution, which takes into account the degree of development of the regions concerned. grants allocated under cohesion policy address regional structural disparities and allow the eu to maintain a balanced regional funding policy. unfortunately, the danger hangs over both the future of cohesion policy after 2020 and the implementation of these policies from 2019, the likely year of brexit. the european parliament must express its clear and strong support for maintaining cohesion policy as the foundation of european solidarity and the future of the eu.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, the european people's party group was the initiator of the debate on zambia. the political climate in this country has been marked by tensions following last summer's presidential election. the arrest of opposition leader hichilema is exacerbating the political crisis. the circumstances leading up to the arrest are downright bizarre. hachima is accused of treason and faces the death penalty for a minor traffic accident: he allegedly obstructed the presidential convoy. in fact, president lungu is unhappy because his opponent in last year's election challenged the outcome of the competition. i ask the zambian authorities to stay within the limits of democracy, the absurd revenge solves absolutely nothing, as other colleagues have said, the healthy solution is a dialogue between power and opposition.
mr president, commissioner, the general situation in zambia should be closely monitored and the resolution provides for this. a peaceful and constructive dialogue must be launched urgently. i welcome the involvement of international and regional partners in the democratisation of zambia. i've visited this country and i've seen people living in poverty, but also in fear of tomorrow. and there are people there, and if we really want to be solidarity, we should act together with other european and global institutions for democratization, but also for the eradication of poverty. we must not forget that the death penalty still exists, which is unacceptable. there are many restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of association that can lead to conflict, so it is good to implement this resolution.
mr president, commissioner, political conflict and famine have created an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in south sudan. more than five million people in the country need aid, millions of people face hunger, more than 3.6 million people are displaced, including one million children. the conflict in sudan should concern us all. it is vital for the european union to ensure that the parties to the conflict are willing to commit to a ceasefire. the flow of arms continues to fuel the conflict. the european union must impose an arms embargo. reports that several countries, including ukraine and israel, continue to transfer arms to south sudan, facilitated by brokers in member states, are of deep concern. in january 2016, un investigators discovered that in addition to hundreds of light and heavy machine guns, a ukrainian private company called motors sich sold to south sudan an attack helicopter worth $42 million in a contract authorized by the ukrainian state export authority. let's not forget that this was in 2014, after ukraine signed the arms embargo with the european union. in addition, it is suspected that ukrainian mercenaries are in the country to ensure that these helicopters work. it needs control.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, several member states are faced with a number of worrying assumptions among both consumers and producers as regards the quality of products imported into their national territory compared to the same products in other european countries. of course, we can't compare one product to another unless it's from the same supplier, it's of the same quality, it's labeled the same. in short, we can only differentiate if the products have the same origin and distribution in the member states, and we must also take into account the fact that the current legislation allows branded products to be adapted to the market in which they are sold, which is a common practice for several reasons: adaptation to consumer tastes, local customs and access to raw materials. in this context, commissioner, i believe that a solution must be found at european level so that, on the basis of objective differences in quality and the communication of the respective brands, it can be determined to what extent producers are misleading consumers when it comes to the quality of products imported into the national territory, compared with the same products in other european countries.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and i want to congratulate the initiators, but it must not be a simple question left unanswered. it's a given that in eastern countries they're produced under the same brand with inferior qualities. this is deception. i am a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and it is my duty to defend consumers, but there is much more to this than the consumer. selling a product that has inferior qualities but bears the same brand, is a counterfeit after all and destroys the legitimate manufacturers. on the other hand, the consumer pays an unfair price. we don't stop diversification, but the manufacturer who wants to sell for less purchasing power has only to change the name of the product, put another brand, put the number two to that brand, not cheat by putting the same brand and take detergent and use three times as much because the washing coefficient is lower. so, commissioner, i think that we must intervene here with a single piece of legislation, obviously european, and with the national authorities. but it is clear now that the east is the trash can, as it has often been proven.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you as a consumer, as a customer of shops in my country, to pay the same price and to consume the same products as you, my fellow westerners, consume. the problem of the double standard is pressing on us easterners. it's been debated for two months and yes, there's nothing concrete, there's not much interest from the commission or the other states to solve this division of quality of life. colleagues from romania, slovakia, hungary have asked the commission on numerous occasions to take action on the double standard of food, only colleagues representing eastern europe have asked for this. no representative from western countries was curious to see if his manufacturer, production units in his country, whether we talk about germany, austria, belgium or france sends goods of a different quality to the east. europe is not divided into four categories by cardinal points, nor should the output exported by some large producers be divided. i ask the commission to take action to clarify these hypotheses, to collect evidence from all the member states of the european union and to test whether this phenomenon of double standards in products marketed in eastern europe is real.
mr. president, thank you. the existence of double standards for products marketed in the states of eastern and western europe has long been an accepted reality. recent expert studies have confirmed the existence of such a worrying situation. at the same time, other studies are coming in and confirming a higher incidence of cancer in eastern european countries compared to other countries. the link between the two is clear and unmistakable: poor quality food causes diseases that are often fatal to consumers. the commission should take firm action in this regard, including by amending existing legislation to avoid double standards of quality. and our message is very clear: we will not accept that the countries of the east become the garbage dump of europe.
blue-card question. – the council, that is helping you, should look in this room. they are not doing this, unfortunately. i would like to ask our colleague and the commissioner: what are we going to do with the strategy when the united states has withdrawn from the cop paris agreement? do you not think this will jeopardise european competitiveness? do you not think that we have to completely reshape this strategy?
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the road package debate has generated a lot of excitement in recent months and i am glad that we finally have a set of measures from the commission. i consider the package published today to be a step forward and i hope that it will bring clarity in terms of fair competition but also ensure decent and fair working conditions for those working in this sector. and because we're just getting started, i'd like to just talk about a few general things today: the road package must take into account the particularities of the member states and give a chance to all operators, regardless of their geographical area. in this respect, i expect that the final version of the proposals will not burden transport companies with more administrative obligations, nor penalize peripheral states that depend on cross-border and cabotage operations. i also hope that we will finally be able to focus on the real issues, such as shell companies that exploit not only legislative loopholes but also their own employees, and i regret that we do not have and have not considered the establishment of that european road transport agency which could have led to an integrated solution to many of the problems in this sector.
madam president, commissioners, i am really glad that we finally have this package. i am also glad that the commissioner said that you want a fairer and more competitive transport market. i believe in this, i come from industry and i think it's needed. growth in the transportation sector automatically leads to economic growth, but i'm concerned about how you want to solve the problem of shell companies. i do not agree with my colleagues here who said that each state should solve, i think that a unified proposal is necessary because if we have a single market we must also have a unified regulation on transport and i put a proposal straight forward: do you think that those companies that open a so-called branch, a post office box, in a country where wages are low but do absolutely no work with drivers in that country but all drivers are taken and taken to countries where wages are higher and paid with wages in eastern countries. do you think you can find a solution to solve it? i would not give a transport authorisation to companies that in that country do not have any fleet and do not carry out transport in that country. please think, i think that's the main problem, then everything is solved.
mr president, we must ensure that eradicating poverty and fighting inequality remain at the heart of eu development policy, including in the new consensus. the member states must put every effort into the successful implementation of agenda 2020 and the sustainable development goals. i welcome the fact that commitments on agriculture are more detailed than in the previous consensus and include support for smallholder farmers and pastoralists, recognising the role they play in combating hunger and malnutrition. i would also like to congratulate the negotiators for including commitments to promote decent work, corporate social responsibility and the importance of social and environmental standards for european investment in developing countries. last but not least, the withdrawal of the united states from the cop 21 paris agreement will jeopardise the influence and power of the usa in the world, and unfortunately in the long term it will affect the whole of mankind in a negative way.
mr president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, i fully agree, from the outset, with the new european consensus on development and you have given me hope, mr prime minister, i have recently returned from your country and i have seen what you have been able to do there. i think what you said, the first goal, eradicating poverty, of course, has to go from plan to concrete. you said yourself, we have to find the key to connect the plans we make with reality. i regret that some colleagues here have put the issue in an absolutely extreme way and i say it very openly. poverty has to be eradicated, people's lives are the most important thing, we have children in poverty, it doesn't matter where these children live, we have to see how we can stop the regional disparities, the huge differences between people's lives in one country and another or even within the same country between rural and urban. i wish the council and the commission success, and we, the european parliament, to bear in mind that it is important and that nothing can be more important than the lives of people and the raising of the standard of living of all who live on earth.
mr president, building resilience means creating a more responsive union, and is key to forging strong partnerships. we must reiterate our call to the commission and the council to incorporate existing eu policies in the new initiative and ensure their continuity. in addition, the new initiative should promote alignment with international commitments, comply with development effectiveness principles, promote a coherent eu approach to resilience and the complementarity of eu development, humanitarian, foreign and security policies, with a particular focus on the needs of the most vulnerable populations while highlighting the role of local actors and civil society. it is fundamentally important to strengthen the resilience of states and societies by supporting good governance and accountable institutions and working closely with civil society.
madam president, mr prime minister, commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating the authors of this question. we needed to know what your new concept of resilience is, given the global changes that are taking place, and i believe very strongly that all development, humanitarian, foreign, security policies, all of them must lead to respect for human rights. we have many people in the world and in the european union who are discriminated against, and i'm not just talking about gender discrimination, i'm talking about citizens, children, who don't have access to education, to food, to health, children in many countries in remote areas, especially in rural areas, where they don't have the chance of vocational training, of preparing for a future family life. in this sense, i think that in the global context, the european institutions need to think together with the other institutions about how we go about the causes, what we do about the conflicts that create problems and bring children and families to this situation in many places in the world.
in writing. recently, anti-semitic behaviour has started to become a kind of new normal in europe. the terrorist attacks in toulouse, paris and copenhagen targeted jewish community institutions and are clear evidence of the recent proliferation of anti-semitism. anti-semitism involves prejudice and attitudes that legitimize discrimination, violence and hatred. today, more than ever, the european union must make the fight against anti-semitism and discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion or nationality a priority. unfortunately, the online environment facilitates communication and membership of extremist and anti-semitic groups and leads to the trivialization of deviant behaviour. the jewish community has made an important contribution to the development, both cultural and economic and social, of europe and we must ensure that their rights are respected and that their safety is ensured. a universally accepted definition of anti-semitism is also needed at member state level, and future eu presidencies should take this into account.
madam president, in the thematic areas of the agency's 2018-2022 multiannual framework, the draft council decision , contrary to the commission's proposal explicitly includes the different types of equality and non-discrimination as set out in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights. so is discrimination on the grounds of ethnic minority and language. this is a welcome development and i therefore support the draft council decision, but it is important to emphasise that while discrimination on grounds of membership of a national minority is included among the thematic areas of the current multiannual framework, the fra's 2017 fundamental rights report does not address national minorities at all. for years, the agency has been pretending that this category does not exist in the union at all, when, with minority languages, we are talking about 60 million eu citizens. while other minority groups are dealt with in separate sub-sections of the report, the problems of national minorities do not appear at all. it is time to recognise that equal treatment does not mean equal opportunities, that indigenous national minorities need positive discrimination for genuine equality of opportunity.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking linnéa engström for the question on the un ocean conference which will be starting in five days in new york. the un conference, together with the our ocean conference which will be hosted by the eu this coming october in malta, will be the most important global ocean events this year. these two conferences are mutually reinforcing each other and will help us all to keep the momentum for action in the interest of our oceans. the un conference will allow the european union to showcase its leadership in making oceans safer, more secure, healthier, and above all, more sustainably managed. these are priorities for the european union and its member states, as set out in the joint communication on international ocean governance. sustainable development goal 14 can be a very strong driver for reinforcing ocean governance. this and other goals under agenda 2030 are being actively pursued through many of the eu's policies, as we established in our communication in november on the next steps for a sustainable european future. for example, the marine strategy framework directive provides a comprehensive and integrated approach to the protection of the marine environment and natural resources. this is based on an ecosystem approach aiming to achieve good environmental status of european marine waters. our birds and habitats legislation provides for protection of the eu sea area through a network of marine protected areas - mpas - as a part of natura 2000. the european union is tackling marine litter and pollution at source through its rules on waste management and prevention and port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues, as well as through the circular economy. we have also set up a system for ecosystem-based maritime spatial planning in europe. we have revised our common fisheries policy, and many stocks are now recovering as a result. our rules against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing ensure that our member states implement their international obligations, keep illegally caught fish out of the european market and help us improve fisheries governance in third countries. just last week we again showed our commitment to fight illegal fishing globally. we listed st vincent & the grenadines and the comoros as uncooperative third countries. this is tantamount to issuing a red card which, amongst other consequences, effectively bans trade in fisheries products from these countries to the european union. and we have also issued a warning, a so-called yellow card, to liberia to encourage necessary reforms there. i will also emphasise the importance of fighting iuu at the un ocean conference on 9 june. the day after world ocean day i will host an event on the contribution of this fight to ensuring the long-term sustainability of fisheries resources. i will be joined by ministers from fiji and guinea, two countries that benefited from cooperation with the european union in the past. sustainable management and conservation of natural resources, such as biodiversity and fisheries, is also gaining importance in our trade and investment policy. for example we are including dedicated sustainability provisions in the relevant trade and investment agreements and we are also committed to eliminating harmful fisheries subsidies in line with target 6 of sdg 14. and that is why the european union tabled a specific proposal at the wto last october. we are now actively involved in wto negotiations and hope to achieve a multilateral agreement on fisheries subsidies at the wto eleventh ministerial conference in december in buenos aires. finally, i am pleased to announce that the member states and council two days ago endorsed a list of clear and concrete voluntary commitments that the eu will present at the un ocean conference next week. these demonstrate the european union's strong and common endeavours to make sdg 14 happen in practice.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, the 2030 agenda for sustainable development presented by the commission is an ambitious agenda. the 14 actions the commission proposes are sustainable, responsible and reasonable, but we must bear in mind that over 30% of our marine resources are overexploited. i believe that two actions in this agenda are vital for the future of our oceans: first, improving the international ocean governance framework, closing the gaps that exist in the existing framework, and second, illegal fishing. the two actions, in my view, are interconnected, but i believe, commissioner, that it will be a very difficult battle, the battle against illegal fishing, in the context of countries outside the eu which have not yet ratified and applied the un convention, and i am referring to the united states as well. in the context of the negotiations on the future international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, which can only exist in the context of the un convention on the law of the sea, i would like to know how the european commission intends to achieve an effective agreement that will close the gaps in international law, when we know very well that there are states determined to deny the existence of climate change and the need for responsible management of fish stocks. in terms of sustainable resource management, we are again talking about the need for a system of regional fisheries management organisations based on international agreements that have the necessary strength, support and respect from states, so that their decisions are implemented. in this context, i would like to ask the european commission to what extent it has a plan, other than the agenda proposed last year, for negotiating and establishing organisations in the arctic area.
mr president, today we are discussing the digitisation of european industry and connectivity. more specifically, we are talking about a digital europe, a virtually digital society, in which all citizens should have access to the opportunities offered by new technological developments. the intentions are good, we want the european union to become the world leader in 5g deployment by 2025. this would bring enormous benefits, of almost €141 billion, across europe. but for that, we need to legislate properly and in the right places. for example, we need a definition of very high capacity networks in the european electronic communications code. to take advantage of the digital revolution, we need to involve all actors. for example, governments should better coordinate and integrate high-performing security systems, cities should have coherent development agendas, smes and universities should have access to innovation, and the digital divide should be actively tackled through strong and clear funding measures. we have to act fast because innovation and international competition are not waiting for us, and it's our role here to make the right decisions.
mr president, the digital revolution is fundamentally changing the way economic, social and human activities are carried out in all areas. that is why i support the initiatives of the european commission, the recommendations in these reports, which are really aimed at the formation of a european digital single market. the literature is very clear that those who are lagging behind in taking advantage of the opportunities of the digital revolution will be lagging behind for a long time. we therefore have a responsibility to prioritise at european level the adoption of the regulations needed for the digital revolution and, in particular, we must act for digital education so that every european citizen, every business can fully benefit from the opportunities created by the digital revolution. i am delighted that the next european commissioner for the digital market will be a colleague of ours, ms mariya gabriel who is energetic and whom i wish every success.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are huge differences between the different regions of europe in terms of the current state of industrial digitisation and its future prospects. it is important to emphasise that digitisation must avoid increasing the gap between member states and regions, thus putting the less developed regions in an even worse position. at the same time, digital technologies and their industrial application are a key factor in the european union's global competitiveness, and the union and the member states should support smes and large industrial players, simply because they do the same with their own entrepreneurs and industrial players in other economic centres around the world. reform of education systems can also be seen in this context: if we do not provide our young people with relevant knowledge and skills, we will very quickly fall behind in global competition, and catching up will be slow and difficult.
in writing. i express my reservations about the excessive tendency to involve institutions, governments and other stakeholders in a future 5g project as long as the implementation of the current 4g standard, which is currently underway, is not satisfactory. i think we have a duty to first complete a project and then to get involved in a new, bigger, more expensive one.
in writing. i consider that digitalisation is a sine qua non for the development of a competitive european industry, and the socio-economic benefits of this phenomenon are clear. technological progress creates new employment opportunities and forms, including for vulnerable social groups, and facilitates a good work-life balance. all of these contribute to increased labour market participation, resulting in improved production capacity and economic growth at european level. however, i regret that this report does not sufficiently highlight the social challenges of digitalisation. the lack of digital skills and the time needed for industry to adapt can lead to imbalances in the labour market, with the risk that regulated labour rights and conditions are affected. in my view, digitalisation can create gaps between companies and member states that already have the necessary infrastructure and those that do not have the same opportunities to invest in modernisation. therefore, cohesion funds, investments in underdeveloped regions and stimulation of vulnerable sectors must complement measures to accelerate the digitalisation of industry.
mr president, farmers in romania are currently facing an acute labour crisis in all sectors. although they offer decent wages, they are unable to find workers, especially in the livestock sector, but not only, which will unfortunately lead in the not too distant future to the closure of these businesses in this field. the phenomenon is particularly damaging to small and medium-sized farms, which we also want to support at european level. i appreciate that it is not enough to provide financial support for the establishment of these farms, but that they also need to be well-run in the long term. social aid is the main cause of this phenomenon affecting the agricultural sector in romania. a large number of people who could work in this sector receive social assistance, so they prefer not to work, which i consider unacceptable, and i also believe that immediate action is needed in this area so that the policies to be implemented at european level will stimulate employment in this agricultural sector.
mr president, 1 june is children's day in dozens of countries in europe and around the world. it's a time to bring smiles to children's faces, to give them hope in their dreams and to show that their future and their experiences are important to us. that is why i have invited a group of children from the romanian diaspora in belgium to the european parliament today, and i thank them for showing me a new perspective on our work. but things are not that simple: 26 million children in europe are affected by poverty and social exclusion according to eurostat. unfortunately, bulgaria, romania and hungary lead the way in child poverty, which is why we need a european-wide guarantee for children to ensure their access to education, culture or proper nutrition. children's rights are human rights, and human rights are children's rights. children's rights are human rights and human rights are also children's rights. let's respect their rights and happy birthday to all the children of june 1st.
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate you on the balanced position you have taken on this issue and i would also say that it seems unfair to me that we are looking at the czech republic. the czech republic was my model, if you will, i come from an eastern country, from romania, and i have always appreciated the czech republic, how it crossed, how it had the velvet revolution. and the press and the news have contributed to this. what would we do if the citizens were not informed? i'm advocating for freedom of the press, but doubled by the truthfulness of the information, because people will choose based on what information they get, and i think we need to talk about two levels here. you have spoken, commissioner, about this directive and we need to review the audiovisual service at european level, but it is very important that there should be freedom of the press at the level of each member state on the one hand, and responsibility for the information transmitted on the other. and i really believe that these things will be solved in the czech republic and other countries if we politicians do our job properly.
madam president, commissioner, of course, and i agree that the amendment of regulation no 1683/1995 establishing a uniform format for visas was necessary. the report justified the proposal and i think we should all accept that when dysfunctions like in this case, forged visas, arise, solutions must be found to counteract them. a uniform visa model must be, and be secure, in all member states. in the current situation, when terrorist attacks have intensified, i think that security measures must be increased. and one of them, of course, is visa security. the documents shall contain all the necessary information and comply with the technical standards to avoid forgery and falsification of visas. as the commission has also pointed out, after 20 years, the solution of the current visa sticker is compromised. commissioner, the commission and the council have a duty to do so: we must arrive at a single area of the european union and a single visa model for the safety of citizens but also for the equal treatment of european citizens, and i strongly believe that it is unfair that citizens from countries like my own and other countries which are not yet in the schengen area, it is unfair that these citizens have different treatment. i believe that after the adoption of this regulation, this amendment, we must take the next step in arriving, as we should, at a single area, a single visa model, a single treatment for european citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 1 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. – for the efficient functioning of the border-free schengen area, a common visa policy has been put in place in order to facilitate entry of citizens from non-eu countries while also strengthening the internal security. the current uniform format for visas dates back to 1995 and is an important element of the eu visa policy in the form of a sticker to be affixed to the travel document of non-eu nationals that intend to stay in one or more countries of the schengen area for a period of no more than three months in total or will just transit through the international transit areas of airports of the schengen countries. authorities in several member states have discovered forged visa stickers in the past years, while specialists have deemed the present schengen visa sticker as not secure. the report will update the current uniform visa format in order for it meet technical standards with safeguards against counterfeiting and forgery by elaborating a new security concept and design. each eu country must communicate the name of the only authority entitled to print this visa to the european commission and the other eu countries.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms joëlle bergeron, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on the protection of vulnerable adults (2015/2085(inl)) (a80152/2017).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, people who are vulnerable because of age-related illnesses or disabilities, who travel or live in other european countries, will be able to benefit from more rights and more protection if member states implement the recommendations in this report which we will adopt in the european parliament plenary. i am glad that i contributed to the drafting of this document as a member of the european parliament and as the shadow rapporteur of the social democratic group. it is an important step forward for the protection of vulnerable citizens when travelling in europe. unfortunately, today, a senior who wants to go to another country can face the danger of not being recognized for some of his rights, and the risk is all the greater the more vulnerable he is. the project thus aims to partially solve this problem and to guarantee the legal protection of persons and property through cooperation between member states. first of all, it's a gesture of humanity. when you are suffering from old age or disability, you deserve to have your rights fully protected, including when you move from one country to another and not be harassed by the authorities or blocked by excessive bureaucracy. the amendments tabled by myself and our political group referred to the increased inclusion of vulnerable people, especially in view of the large number of european citizens living today outside their country of origin, among whom there are obviously many vulnerable people. all citizens, without discrimination, must enjoy freedom of movement within the european union, which is why there is a need to develop tools at european level to solve the difficulties of vulnerable adults moving or living in other european countries, who must be guaranteed protection. in this respect, our request, as the european parliament, is to ensure that the protection measures taken in favour of a vulnerable adult by the authorities of another member state are circulated, recognised and enforced by the authorities of the member states. but our central objective remains very clearly to encourage member states to sign and ratify the hague convention on the international protection of adults, but also to stimulate improved cooperation between member states, automatic recognition and enforcement of decisions on the protection of vulnerable adults.
mr president, commissioner, i certainly agree with the report and congratulate the colleagues who have worked. vulnerable adults need to be protected. all people who have problems need to be protected. you said that it was difficult to get the hague convention ratified, but at the same time you said that you could intervene with the european cooperation instrument, which could help the member states to ratify the hague convention. human lives need to be protected and vulnerable people are unfortunately not protected in many countries. in poorer countries there is a need for funding, there is not enough funding. i also think that vulnerable people should enjoy mobility, and how can there be mobility if they don't have money, if they can't move? often, vulnerable people are used and exploited. i am a humanist, and i think we need to show solidarity, and i am part of the social democratic group here in the european parliament, i am in a humanist party in my country, and i think that nothing is more important than finding concrete solutions so that these vulnerable people, these adults, are protected and enjoy life while they still have it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 1 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. we now find that, as regards measures for the protection of vulnerable adults, this continues to be an area where, at european level, there continue to be discrepancies and disparities between the laws of the member states concerning jurisdiction, the applicable law, the recognition and enforcement of measures for the protection of adults. although there are provisions in the hague convention that could address cross-border problems with regard to vulnerable adults, there are member states that have not ratified it, and this undermines the protection of vulnerable adults in cross-border situations in the union. as such, i support the proposal to develop and finance projects to raise awareness among european citizens about the situation of vulnerable adults and the protection measures that affect them, as well as the services available in the field of the protection of vulnerable adults.
in writing. it is already well known that the protection of vulnerable adults, whether their vulnerability is physical or psychological, who exercise their freedom of movement within the eu, is a cross-border issue, linked to fundamental human rights. the protection of vulnerable persons is an eu mission and is necessary in the context of discrepancies between member states' laws on jurisdiction, applicable law and enforcement of measures to protect vulnerable adults. the diversity of applicable legislation and the multiplicity of competent courts can affect not only the right of vulnerable adults to move and reside freely within an eu member state, but also the protection of their heritage. the commission's recommendation that protection measures taken by the authorities of one member state be automatically recognised in the other member states is therefore welcome. this means that vulnerable people with age-related illnesses or disabilities, who live in other european countries or move within the union, can benefit from more rights and more protection. the implementation of the recommendations in this report clearly requires the application of cooperation mechanisms between member states in order to facilitate and promote communication between competent authorities.
madam president, ukraine's gross domestic product grew by more than 1% in 2016. by voting for this report, ukraine will receive another boost for development. but we have to make sure that this money, made from duty-free trade in the european union, only has to go to the people and not into the pockets of the oligarchs. basically, according to this agreement, for three years ukraine will export to european markets, without customs duties, grain, fruit, industrial products. we need to take measures to prevent an increased flow of cheap grain from ukraine to the union market at the same time. the ukrainian authorities should also intensify the fight against corruption and fraud, establish anti-corruption courts more quickly and depoliticize the judiciary, appoint a general prosecutor who is not a politician, as is the case today, and one who has legal education and experience.
madam president, we need more judicial cooperation in the criminal field, between police forces, but also european agencies, such as the european agency for human rights. in talking to the director of the agency, i have seen improvements in this agency in terms of transparency, introduction of conflict of interest and the desire and already beginning of the expansion of activity and competence and in matters concerning the rule of law: to be involved in respecting the rule of law in all member states. they should also be involved in what happens in the refugee camps on the respect of human rights, alongside the police, for example, who deal with the criminal side and with sanctioning those who violate the laws of the country in which they are. i wish them success, and hope they produce much more than ineffective studies.
madam president, a digital industry means strengthening the economy, better social cohesion. when industries are connected, investment increases, jobs are created, resources are used more efficiently, raw materials are protected and used responsibly. at the same time, a digital industry is driving and giving a very big boost to innovation. without innovation, we cannot progress in a world that changes every day. we can produce and create high standards in our own countries. there are legislative measures that can bring great benefits to romania, it all depends on the political will, as in every country. we have the right financial instruments, the european fund for strategic investments, horizon 2020 and i am talking about regional funds.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the implementation of horizon 2020 has been a success. i don't think anyone can dispute that. it's the largest, as it's been called, research program in the world, but it also aims to provide answers to social and economic challenges. i support the proposed change of the phrase 'european research area' to 'european education and research area'. we need an applied education. if we want to re-industrialize europe, if we want to develop smes, we need an applied education, an education appropriate to economic development. innovation in industry, the development of research in all fields can lead to a better life for people. after all, that's the point of research. the approach to this programme needs to be improved so that the outcome of research and innovation can be taken up and applied by smes much more easily. the mid-term evaluation of this programme allows for recommendations and congratulations to the rapporteur, but i would like to highlight a few points. i would like this horizon 2020 programme to have a greater impact on poorer areas and contribute more to social cohesion and we need to support researchers. in many countries, researchers cannot apply their research results.
mr president, dear colleagues, research, development and innovation are key to the future of european society, and money spent in this area should be seen as investment in the future, not as a cost. i welcome the fact that we have managed to get a solid majority for eur 120 billion for the future framework programme 9 (fp9) to include a strong focus on social sciences and humanities (ssh) to assert the open data principle, to balance fundamental research and innovation, to better involve small and medium-sized enterprises in collaborative projects and innovation. moreover, i am satisfied by the fact that we highlighted the need for fp9 to strengthen societal progress and create growth and jobs. i support the call for the policies to remove barriers such as low salaries in order to avoid a brain drain. finally, we must put a very strong focus on the need to have better synergies between framework programmes and other eu funds.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this very good discussion. i will start with the words of jerzy buzek, who said: this is not expenditure, it is an investment in our future. the big challenge we have ahead is how to go round the countries and convince the governments that this is not expenditure, this is an investment and a priority for our future. if we do not do that, we will not thrive, we will not get to where we want to be. when you look today at the number of publications we have in europe, you see that with 7% of the population we have more than 33% of the entire number of publications and articles. if you compare that with the year 2000, you see a very interesting phenomenon – that we have surpassed the united states in highly cited publications. that represents a huge opportunity for the future if we continue to invest in that future. i think it was mr torvalds who talked about the importance of added value. this year when ben feringa, of the netherlands, received the nobel prize he said something that i think we have to keep in mind – that the only place in the world today where we still believe in the intuition of scientists is europe. it is because we believed in the intuition of ben feringa that he was able to invent something, to create something, that will change life for future generations, and that is why he won the nobel prize. in the space of 10 years, the european research council has been able to support researchers who have won six nobel prizes, four fields medals and five wolf prizes. that is the added value that we all recognise, and i am very happy that, right across the house, every one of you recognises that. all of you raised the point of investment. how can we increase this investment? ms matias, mr buzek, mr telička, mr van miltenburg, ms kudrycka, ms van bossuyt – all are asking for more, because we need more! as i said, just to keep on funding the very, very good projects we would need another eur 60 billion, because we are funding just one out of four of the very good ones. i am with you and i thank you for being so up-front with the amounts you think would be the right ones for the future. i thank you so much. then there was ms matias and mr marcellesi, who raised a point that is paramount for me, about gender and gender balance. i think we have been, somehow, an example. we have to improve, but it shows each time i meet with my advisory panels and i see that we have surpassed the 50% mark for women on those panels. we now have 53% on those advisory panels. it has increased from 33% in 1997, so here we are leading by example. a lot of scientists who are women and who come before those panels tell me they feel better when they see that there is gender balance in the room: there is a different energy and it produces different results. on the expert panels, we are not doing so well. we had a target, as you know, of 40% and unfortunately we are still at 37%. we have not achieved that target but we will fight for it. if you compare the results with those of the past, we are doing better. is it enough in terms of gender? no, we are not doing enough. i want to do more and i hope that you can help me on that. then we talked here about vision, and you repeated three words that for me are crucial: the word ‘excellence’, the word ‘openness’ and the word ‘impact’. i think it was mr zorrinho who said that excellence is when openness crosses impact, and that is exactly it. we need to be at that juncture. for the future we have to achieve the ability of looking at this programme in terms of a triangle. one axis is between the excellence that we need – because we need to be at the top, and for that we scale, speed and everybody working together – and then openness, because that, today, is our political statement. openness is not just something that is natural for us, who love science. we know that there is no science without openness, there is no innovation without openness, there is no programme without being open to the world. today it has become a political statement, and an important one. that is our difference, because we want to be open. the third factor is impact. impact matters not just in commercial terms – the impact we know, the impact of the product – but also in terms of the impact of everything we do in fundamental research. that is the impact which will come in 10, 50 or 100 years’ time but which, we believe, will change the world at some point. i would like to thank ms cabezón ruiz very much for the report and for her hard work. all of you give me the energy to keep doing my job, and that is really unique.
in writing. the gap between regions in terms of participation in horizon 2020 is a major problem. i call on the commission and in particular the agencies responsible for implementing the priority for scientific excellence to promote collaboration and coordination activities in order to encourage the participation of regions with reduced capacity through capacity building and to support mobility and professional development in these regions. the european research council should be involved in more collaborative projects in europe and should focus in particular on regions and institutions with limited capacity, in order to spread eu r&i policies and know-how across the european union. i also consider that the budget lines of horizon 2020, which were reduced in the period 2015-2020 to feed the efsi, need to be reinstated and that the efsi should be financed from sources independent of the already approved eu programmes. and last but not least, taking stock of the achievements of joint undertakings such as clean sky and sesar and the ecsel, shift2rail joint technology initiatives, as well as the joint technology initiatives for bio-based industries, i call on the commission to extend the governance system of joint technology initiatives to new industrial sectors such as space technologies for the next fp9 programme.
in writing. horizon 2020 is the european union's most important programme to stimulate research and innovation at european level. although its objectives are positive, the implementation of the programme so far indicates many structural problems. the first concerns the unequal treatment of the different categories of applicants and beneficiaries. furthermore, researchers from eastern europe are paid below the salary level of those from western europe, and this inequality is also reflected in the evaluation of projects, with older universities being awarded extra points even though the projects and ideas of newer or eastern european research institutions may be better. another issue concerns the consultancy culture fostered by horizon 2020. the structural lobby, traditional consortia and certain consultants have reduced confidence among applicants. finally, a final problem identified is the slow pace of evaluation compared to the speed of innovation in the market. this is how the funds are received after the technology has become obsolete. all these problems need to be rectified in the context of fp9.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this initiative project, the communication unit of dg regio, the representatives of the committee of the regions for their contributions, the secretariats of the political groups for support and cooperation and, of course, the shadow rapporteurs. the visibility of european investments and increased communication of results have become a concern at the level of the eu institutions. the report proposal comes with concrete ideas and adapted tools for increasing communication on the structural funds. the commission presented concrete proposals to member states' ministers in luxembourg at the end of march to increase the visibility of cohesion policy. an action plan on the communication methods of cohesion policy is also being prepared. at the same time, the maltese presidency acknowledged the lack of visibility of cohesion policy and confirmed the agreement at council level on the ways in which member states can more clearly demonstrate that this policy has a direct and positive impact on the lives of eu citizens. we started this report by saying that visibility in cohesion policy, as well as funding opportunities, are a responsibility of local and regional authorities. they are the interface closest to the citizen, benefiting, as we all know, from a high degree of trust. on the other hand, although cohesion policy is financed with a budget of over €350 billion, the positive effects are little known by citizens, and the obvious conclusion was that communication methods were not always the most effective. as i pointed out in the proposal, only one third of those questioned in the 2015 eurobarometer, and i stress, only one third, had heard about the projects funded by cohesion policy and the positive effect on their lives. in this context, better coordination between public authorities, the social and economic partners and civil society is therefore needed to effectively communicate the objectives of the european union, with a view to increasing citizens' interest in belonging to the common european project. together with my colleagues in the regi commission, i insisted that the proposal for the omnibus regulation should include a mandatory percentage in the technical assistance for advertising, given that the percentages currently used are very low, in some countries almost non-existent. at the same time, i called for a set of stricter requirements for the publicity of eu-funded projects, as it has been shown that a simple billboard attesting to the presence of investments through eu funds is not enough. at the same time, i also drew attention to the need to clarify the regulatory framework for communication tools, since there are many cases where beneficiaries avoid accessing these tools because of the lack of coherence of the legislation in force and, of course, the fear of sanctions that may subsequently occur. in the long term, the achievement of the set objectives can only be achieved by involving all relevant partners in the decision-making process. there is a need to develop tools or platforms to animate, in view of current participatory governance methods, the involvement of citizens in a participatory budgeting process. increasingly open access to information confirms that citizens want to be asked about the appropriateness of development projects at the local community level. adapted tools are therefore required in view of technological developments and the increasing public access to current digital media. last but not least, and with this i conclude, mr president, a new objective proposed in the report is the outsourcing of the outcome of cohesion policy in the context of the future communication strategy. the commission should adopt different communication strategies for the net contributing and the net beneficiary member states.
mr president, cohesion policy has long marked the european integration project and is among the most valid european policies, on par with the single market and the monetary union. over the years, from a mere economic tool it has developed into one of the eu’s most widely—recognisable policies and a powerful symbol intra—eu solidarity. i believe there are a number of prerequisites for cohesion policy to guard its essential role in the european project and to remain strong and effective in the post 2020 period. it should continue to be the strongest financial pillar for infrastructure projects for less endowed countries, as these are the bases without which there cannot be economic development. it should keep the central role of grants and remain the most suitable instrument for types of interventions and it should have its lead role in long-term development in member states reinforced and its relationship with other additional financial vehicles, such as the european fund for strategic investments, clarified.
mr president, commissioner, i will begin with what i wanted to say at the end: you have found that you have support in parliament. it is necessary to continue this policy, and i very much appreciate what you are doing and all the effort you are making to convince both the commission and the council that we need it. cohesion policy expresses first of all the solidarity of the european union as one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and we all know that in fact convergence has not been achieved, that we have areas where we have social and economic inequalities. that is why i want to appreciate all the reports and i want to refer in particular to the westphal report. it defined our rapporteur very well: we need a cohesion policy beyond 2020, de-bureaucratised, for all regions and for all people. that is why i hope that this cohesion policy will be improved as a matter of principle and that we must not have conditionality, we must have uniform development in all regions. thank you and congratulations to all the rapporteurs.
member of the commission. – mr president, i will say a few words in english and then in my mother tongue. thank you very much for your contribution to our debate today and thank you very much for your support for the cohesion policy. i think these three reports came at a key moment for europe and in particular for the cohesion policy. discussions on the future will continue and intensify in the coming months. ms westphal’s report, together with the reflection paper on the social dimension, globalisation and europe, provide valuable food for thought. you know very well that we are working together, mr oettinger and i, on a reflection paper on the future of eu finances which will be presented at the end of this month. as was underlined here, i think we must, however, understand that the very best argument for strengthening this policy consists of actually making tangible progress on implementation. so we are working hand-in-hand with member states to speed up the implementation on the ground because this year is of high political importance, it is not business as usual. it is very important to show that member states are able to use this cohesion fund. there is no better argument for the future than a convincing present. it is our responsibility to do it. make people aware of what the european project has brought them in 70 years of peace, how it has helped improve their daily lives. of course much has been done so far but i am sure together we can do still better. many ideas are now on the table, in particular those very helpful proposals by mr buda in his report about communication. the commission is ready to do its part but it cannot do it alone. please join forces with us and become ambassadors of the cohesion policy in your constituency. on natural disasters, i will say some words in romanian. în primul rând, doamnă spyraki, domnule papadimoulis și domnule marias, am spus încă de la început că-mi exprim simpatia față de poporul grec. sunt conștientă de acest dezastru natural, de cutremurele care au loc în marea egee în ultimele zile. am schimbat programul: mâine voi fi la atena, poimâine voi vizita chios, lesbos și insulele afectate. știți foarte bine că noi, în comisia europeană, am propus 100 % cofinanțare pentru dezastrele naturale. vreau să-i mulțumesc doamnei mihaylova, și vreau să mulțumesc parlamentului european că a fost, până în ultima clipă, alături de propunerea comisiei. nu am înțeles și nu pot să înțeleg de ce putem cofinanța 100 % întreprinderi mici și mijlocii, de ce putem cofinanța 100 % atunci când e vorba de locuri de muncă pentru tineri, ius garanti, și nu putem finanța 100 % atunci când e vorba de oameni care pierd totul. am văzut în norcia oameni care stau în mașini de luni și luni de zile, am văzut în madeira case arse, am văzut în cascia și nu numai și o să fiu, așa cum am spus, în insule. e foarte ușor să stai într-o sală la bruxelles și să spui eu nu sunt de acord cu 100 % cofinanțare. de unde o să scoată statele membre 5 % pe care consiliul l-a propus dacă nu îl au în buget? asta ar fi însemnat solidaritate. întrebați statele membre care au votat împotriva propunerii parlamentului și consiliului: ce stă în spatele acestui lucru? noi, comisia europeană, am propus 100 % cofinanțare. dacă mâine va fi un cutremur într-o țară membră, să vină ministerele de externe care au votat împotrivă și să dea aceste cofinanțări, că noi nu mai avem buget pentru așa ceva. în legătură cu marea britanie, iarăși aș vrea să fac o precizare: această politică de coeziune există datorită presiunii marii britanii și a italiei, care, în ʼ75 și-au închis minele în țara galilor și au făcut presiune că nu vor merge la consiliul din italia în ʼ75. câți dintre oamenii, apropo de comunicare, din țara galilor știu că acum au locuri de muncă datorită faptului că s-a creat acest fedr, acest fond de dezvoltare regională? câți dintre oamenii din cardiff știu că metroul este făcut de acolo? la fel ca în orice stat membru, nu există nici în marea britanie nicio regiune, niciun oraș care să nu fi beneficiat de fonduri europene. 250 de milioane de euro în universitatea din manchester, fără să fie niciun steag al uniunii europene. îmi pare foarte rău, dar când vine vorba de friday agreement, nu a fost nici londra, nici dublinul și nici belfastul, a fost bruxellesul care a adus acești oameni împreună și au construit poduri și au construit companii și au vindecat răni pe care noi le avem pe harta acestui continent. din acest punct de vedere, vreau să vă mulțumesc pentru tot și vă asigur că voi fi până în ultima clipă alături de această politică de coeziune, pentru că eu cred, personal, că este singura dimensiune care ne mai ține împreună, cimentul care ne ține împreună. această solidaritate financiară, despre care așa frumos vorbeați, domnule novakov.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your speeches. in fact, the debate here demonstrates once again how important cohesion policy is, and i am absolutely convinced that those of us here are stronger when we defend cohesion policy, because i too am convinced that there can be no strong european union without a strong cohesion policy. and let me be very clear about this. of course, we have to do what is necessary to make it more visible, and in this regard, it is important to adapt the existing means of communication to technological developments and the diversification of communication channels, because, as you said, there are many success stories waiting to be told. the involvement of beneficiaries in the communication of these investments through european funds is needed. at the same time, let us not forget that there are local initiatives for citizen involvement in the act of governance that should be promoted more intensively. we have examples in gdańsk in poland and in cluj-napoca, where i come from, where the community, or where the authorities have successfully launched concrete initiatives, pilot projects involving citizens in local decision-making, and their contributions are essential in participatory budgetary processes. i am convinced that this initiative must also be put into practice at the level of the european institutions and that is why i want to work closely on this subject with both the commission's directorates and national governments at the council level, as well as with the social and economic actors, in order to put into practice a coordinated action plan. we are in a period dominated by anti-establishment movements - and we all know this - and by the expression of growing reservations about the european project, and effective communication, visibility of investment and funding opportunities, and citizen involvement are key ingredients that help to strengthen the sense of belonging to the european project.
thank you very much, mrs. mikhailova. we hope that the appeal made by our colleague will have an effect and we thank the commissioner for the passion with which she has defended her point of view. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. it is essential that, after 2020, the budget is in place so that cohesion policy can reduce disparities between regions across the european union, focusing mainly on the least developed regions. i must, however, point out two aspects of this report which are unacceptable in my view. first, the idea of financing the reception and integration of migrants from the cohesion policy budget does not correspond to the purpose of this policy, given that in the eu, according to statistics, 118,7 million people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion (23,7% of the population). secondly, i believe that it is in romania's interest that the gross domestic product (gdp) per capita for each region and the average gdp of the eu remain the basic indicators for the classification of regions and the determination of the allocation of european structural and investment funds. in future, cohesion policy must be given more flexibility, without this flexibility leading to new restrictions or an increase in administrative burden. this can be achieved by minimum regulation at european level, at the level of principles, complemented by national provisions.
in writing. cohesion policy is considered to be a key investment instrument of the european union and has a direct impact on all its regions and citizens. cohesion policy has a major contribution given the size of member states' savings and investments. with a budget of €351 billion, cohesion policy accounts on average for 15% of total public investment; moreover, in some member states it accounts for between 60-80%. however, even if cohesion policy is boosting economic growth and increasing competitiveness, there are still underdeveloped regions that need priority funding policies, such as the north-east region of romania. i support this report because it aims to increase the visibility of the structural and investment funds by linking cohesion policy instruments to regional policies in order to increase participation and make decisions taken at local level as effective as possible. however, much remains to be done to make efforts to reduce disparities between eu regions more effective.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the state of fish stocks and the socioeconomic situation of the fisheries sector in the mediterranean (2016/2079 (ini)) (a80179/2017).
that reminds me that lord nelson commanded a fleet in the mediterranean, which were not the territorial waters of britain, as far as i remember.
in writing. recent european studies show that over the past five years the gender pension gap has continued to widen in more than half of the member states. the financial crisis of recent years has also had a negative impact on the incomes of many women, and in many member states between 11 and 36% of women do not receive any pension, in particular as a result of discrimination, segregation and career interruption. in these circumstances, it is important that member states, in collaboration with the european executive, make efforts to combine pension policies with adequate work and active ageing policies, to reduce gender pay and pension disparities by encouraging cooperation and exchanges of good practice between member states, to avoid discrimination in the training and career development of women. i also support the rapporteur's proposal on the need for member states to implement the commission's recommendations on wage transparency, gender-neutral job descriptions and classification, reversing the burden of proof when it comes to challenging gender discrimination in the workplace.
in writing. today, in the context of increasing life expectancy, there is more need than ever to guarantee real equality between women and men, but also to prevent situations of poverty and vulnerability, which are more likely to affect women with low pensions. the pension gap is clearly the result of a series of inequalities that have arisen throughout the life and career of women and the union must actively contribute to their elimination. unfortunately, in 2017, the gender pay gap in the eu continues to exist, reaching 16,3% in 2014, mainly as a result of discrimination, segregation and career interruption.
mr president, i agree with the report's findings that the reduction and elimination of homelessness is desirable and that the unacceptable situation of the homeless in burma and bangladesh is highlighted. i support the approach that each situation is different, but different historical reasons cannot provide grounds for the intentional maintenance of a state of statelessness by some states. at the same time, i would like to point out that there are still hundreds of thousands of people in the european union who are living as refugees, and they are not refugees. no one disputes the oppression of the baltic nations by the soviet union, but it is really necessary to move beyond the thinking of this era. how can we criticize countries as far away as burma or bangladesh if we, the advanced europeans, follow the same policy? this practice is discrimination based on nationality in the european union, but we don't talk about it. we act like a family that ignores an unpleasant event in the hope that it will go away. we cannot turn our heads away from our own problems while loudly lashing out at others in bangladesh or myanmar.
mr president, at the end of this month the european commission will publish the list of tasks to be carried out by the countries that will be in the running for the relocation of the european medicines agency. i therefore ask the european commission to take into account an earlier european commission recommendation resolution, which states that priority should be given to states without an agency when newly established european agencies are established on their national territory, when drawing up the eligibility criteria. this recommendation should also apply to the relocation of european agencies, a phenomenon generated by brexit and which did not exist at the time of the recommendation in 2011. another thing that the european commission representatives should take into account when drawing up the criteria is the degree of terrorist danger. fortunately, romania has the advantage of being one of the few european countries where the terrorist threat is non-existent. if we win this race, romania would be the first eastern european state to host an institution of major importance to the european union, which would also be an important political signal in the process of demonstrating the unity of the european union.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of dario tamburrano, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu (com ((2015) 0341 c80189/2015 2015/0149 ((cod)) (a80213/2016) and the question with request for an oral reply on compensation for mislabelling of energy products, addressed to the commission by martina werner, on behalf of the s&d group, dario tamburrano, on behalf of the efdd group, michèle rivasi, on behalf of the verts/ale group and syli neoklis, on behalf of the gng/oil group (49000077) (2047/2017/eu) (2083/2017) bp).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner cañete, i would like to stress the importance of energy-efficiency labelling of products for consumers, for producers and for the achievement of the european union's energy efficiency objectives. according to the commission's assessment, the result of labelling and standards is an energy saving of approximately 175 million tonnes of oil equivalent by 2020 and for consumers a saving of eur 465 per year on household energy bills. in addition, energy efficiency measures will create additional revenues of eur 55 billion for european companies. i would like to congratulate the european parliament's negotiating team, because we need clearer rules on energy labelling to support consumers. among the main achievements i would highlight the return to clearer labelling and the introduction of a public database containing all energy efficiency labels, thus increasing transparency and providing consumers with a better tool to compare the energy efficiency of household appliances. unfortunately, as you have rightly pointed out, commissioner, the regulation does not reflect the protection of consumers who suffer losses because of incorrect labelling. we therefore support, as a political group, compensation for improperly labelled energy-impact products and ask for further clarification from the commission on the compensation of consumers for non-compliance with the energy class indicated on the label, as well as the timing and possible measures envisaged by the commission in this regard. i welcome the intention you have announced today to come up with concrete measures by the end of the year.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to stress that this report is a step forward in terms of labelling. as a member of the imco commission, i support the labelling of any product, and therefore energy labelling. let's be honest with each other. energy labelling indirectly leads to innovation, because there will be competition who can produce a device that has a lower energy consumption and one of the objectives of the european union is also energy efficiency. of course i agree that any consumer who is misled should be compensated. the labelling must be simple, clear and the consumer has the right to know what he is buying. but i would like to point out that it is very important, commissioner, that we also look at how we can ensure that products entering the internal market from third countries are labelled, so as not to create unfair competition for european industry. in short, i believe that labelling stimulates research and innovation in the field of energy-intensive fixed appliances and media, and it is necessary to have this labelling system.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 june 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the mandatory annual greenhouse gas emission reductions by member states for the period 2021 to 2030 to achieve a resilient energy union and to comply with commitments under the paris agreement, and amending regulation (eu) no 525/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information relevant to climate change (com (2016) 0482 c8-0331/2016 2016/01 cod231 (a820/2017).
mr president, the european union and other global actors reacted with strength and unity to the decision of the united states to withdraw from the paris agreement. we have chosen international cooperation over isolation and will continue to play a decisive role in tackling the grave threat posed by climate change. the regulation we are voting on is an important component of the eu's climate change policy during the paris agreement period. it will ensure significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in sectors that today account for more than half of eu-wide emissions. legislation needs to be ambitious. at the same time, however, we must avoid that it has disproportionate economic effects on lower income member states. by linking emission reduction targets to gdp, this legislation will ensure that countries with tough targets can actually afford to meet them.
mr president, commissioner, mandatory reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a european union objective and it is a goal of all member states. every time we looked at reducing emissions, environmental issues, we felt that we had to look at the broader, global context, so as not to put europe and its citizens at a disadvantage. we need to fund afforestation, we need to fund afforestation, we don't just have to say we need afforestation. it's natural to want to protect the environment. after all, we're talking about life, about people's lives. but what do we do with the poorer countries that can't reach those levels? what do we do with the big polluters, the united states and china? what are we going to do about ttip if america doesn't meet the environmental requirements? what are we going to do about competition, about european industry? i think, commissioner, that you should consider including these environmental conditions in all trade agreements, because the planet must be saved and we can only do so by taking measures not only in conjunction with europe but also with the other continents.
mr president, only a third of european citizens have heard of eu co-financed projects in their area, even though the structural and investment funds are essential to improve their lives. another problem is the absorption of funds. the latest commission report shows that for 2014-2020 the average absorption level in the union is 1,79% very, very low. romania has 0,18%. so we have to change all the mechanisms: people have to be informed, procedures simplified, unitary, transparent, easy to control, strict monitoring of spending money. in romania, code for romania, an ngo of volunteers specialised in various fields, offers good governance solutions and is building a project right now so that those interested can have examples of how to use european funds effectively. so it's not the state that does this, it's civil society. i would like to see this effort at the government level. it would be proof that they care about people's lives and that they want to use european money for highways, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, justice and people's lives.
mr. president, people are choosing low-energy electronics, giving up as much fossil fuel heating as they can, and limiting their household consumption. of course, that's because of the theft practiced by many of the companies that have a monopoly on the supply and distribution of electricity. but now we're talking about labeling electronic products with energy consumption. this is essential. it's a very good transparency measure that comes in the people's favor. every person buying an electronic product needs to know how much energy it consumes and from what source it is derived. the market must be monitored to ensure that industries and companies comply with these requirements. industry, in turn, needs to adapt, especially to renewable energy. let us remember that it is not the people who must adapt to the industries, but the industries who must adapt to what the people want. the future is renewable energy and the end of russian gas independence. as long as we are not an eu or a country, any country independent of russian gas, neither is foreign policy independent.
mr president, cohesion policy is the most important development core of the european union. over 350 billion euros, a third of the union budget, we need to use it to grow economies, certainly, smartly, to stimulate investment and job creation. now, we've been saying this for years: not all states respond the same way, because some want to keep their population in poverty, so they can control it more easily. we need to think about what this cohesion policy will look like after 2020 and after brexit. we have no clear lines of action. we're now discussing various strategies and possible actions. we should have plans in parallel, because in the meantime, there are elections, and in many countries, some change for the better, others for the worse, the situation that follows. that's why there's a lack of predictability and that brings uncertainty to people. a multi-speed europe, as some argue, is a europe that will be weak, incoherent and vulnerable, but of course the speed depends on the political will of the governments of the european union. if they want to develop the country, they want the rule of law, they want free, healthy and educated people, then they will go in first gear.
i was originally prepared to support this report on cohesion policy because i consider cohesion policy to be an important eu instrument to support the less developed regions within the eu, but unfortunately, because the amendments have been passed which, in my view, violate and undermine the philosophy of cohesion policy as it has been perceived so far in the eu, i have finally abstained from this report. that's why i'm giving this explanation. it is important to me that cohesion policy is implemented by supporting the less developed regions through european money, and therefore the criterion for allocating money is to be the gdp of each region. unfortunately, amendments have been passed which dilute this criterion, i.e. even the rich regions, the richer regions will be able to get cohesion money, and in that case, for me, cohesion policy loses a little bit of its meaning. that is why i have been hesitant about this report and i hope that in the end the criteria contained in this report will not be enforced in practice, because this report has no normative content.
mr president, i said from the outset, and i said it in yesterday's debate, that i support the need for this programme of social cohesion to continue beyond 2020. we've heard voices in parliament that have fought this. it seems to me that this is the essence of the european union and that it respects the principle of solidarity. what i asked the commission and the commissioner yesterday is to find a set of new measures so that there is easier accessibility, especially for smes, especially in rural areas, and to be able to do this combination between the social cohesion funds and the european fund for strategic investments. we have poor regions. we have not achieved the social cohesion we were hoping for, and i believe that with new policies and measures for the period after 2020, we will be able to make the lives of people in areas that are still in trouble better. it is a very good programme, it is an important programme for the european union and i believe that it needs to be continued and i do not want the social cohesion funds to be diverted to other programmes.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioners for coming to the parliament this afternoon. how we will make the euro more stable by the year 2025? this is the key topic of the reflection paper put forward by the commission which we are discussing this afternoon. a more stable euro and a more stable economic and monetary union will undoubtedly lead to more growth, more investment and more jobs. the stability of the euro and the job creation process in the european union is one of the main concerns of the citizens of the european union, and this is why we have to address this. how should we achieve this? firstly: by respecting existing rules. more than 20 member states of the union, over the course of the recent years, have been in excessive deficit procedures. we still have six excessive deficit procedures open right now. we should not start now by questioning the rules which we have given to ourselves, but we should start by applying these rules, because, as we know, unsustainable debt leads to loss of trust, loss of credibility and is also a big burden for the economy. besides respecting the rules, what should we do? firstly, we should encourage and support the member states of the union to reform, to improve their competitiveness and to strengthen their economies. if this economic reality leads to the conclusion that we should adjust our institutional framework through the creation of a treasury and a finance minister, then we should be ready to think about this and to discuss it, but we should not start the debate about improving our economy by new changes in our institutional set—up in brussels.
madam president, the european union will succeed if two conditions are met: firstly, if this euro area succeeds in bringing prosperity and convergence among the member states of the european union, if solidarity among the member states becomes a reality, which has not been the case until now, and secondly, if the european citizens continue to support the european union. at the moment we do not have a social safety net for european citizens. all the costs of these reforms are borne by the european citizens, and this is not normal. that is why we need strong democratic control, that is why we need the involvement of the european parliament in decision-making in this area, because the european parliament is the only institution democratically elected by citizens, representing european citizens. last but not least, there is no plan to support the countries that will join this euro area. there is no plan to support the countries that will join the euro in the future.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for a very high-level and very constructive debate. of course, as you can imagine, the commission feels closer to those who want to give the euro area greater strength and greater ambition than to those who believe in the ideas, which i think are quite regressive, that it is good to undo it and go back to i don't know what situation we had before, which we should not nostalgise. i would just like to make two points in this conclusion. the first is that i am convinced that it is time to make the euro a tool for shared growth and not just for stability. that's what this is all about. the crucial issue is that of convergence and the reduction of territorial, social and economic inequalities within the euro area in order to ensure the cohesion of the euro and to combat the euroscepticism which in turn feeds populism. from this point of view, there is a notion that i take from your debate, namely that we must strike a balance between the tools of solidarity, which are indispensable, and the principle of solidarity and the rules without which there is no euro zone that matters. but at the same time, all this must be integrated into all areas: financial, economic and monetary. finally, my final point, which is transversal to all the speeches that have been made here, is that we need more democracy in the euro area but not more technocracy. we need accountability, we need transparency. there are situations which cannot last indefinitely and which do not concern - you were right to say so, mr papadimoulis - only greece, but which concern us all. a euro area budget must be voted on and controlled. it is therefore very clear that, although national parliaments play an important role, it is the european parliament which, in my view, must play the leading role and be at the heart of this democratic construction. this debate is just beginning. he's a lawsuit, and we're gonna pursue him with you.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the honourable members for this debate. it clearly shows that views are often quite divergent, and indeed that there is no single answer or one-size-fits-all solution to the future shape of our economic and monetary union. what is needed is an overall common approach and a vision of the future of our single currency. the challenge now is to put the different ideas into practical solutions and to identify a way forward that is pragmatic and flexible, yet effective. the objective is to restart the process of convergence, to strengthen the euro as a source of shared prosperity and economic and social welfare, and to ensure inclusive and balanced growth, and price stability. this reflection paper is the commission’s contribution to the debate on the way forward. we look forward to working closely and constructively with the european parliament to deepen economic and monetary union.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's initiative to discuss the lines of action for deepening economic and monetary union. i regret that this report has abandoned the idea of agreeing with the non-euro area member states on action plans and predictable dates for the changeover to the euro. these member states, with the exception of denmark, have committed themselves to taking all the necessary measures to change to the euro and most of them fulfil the accession criteria. we note that, under pressure from the banking system in particular, the governments of these respective member states 'discover' all sorts of arguments against joining the euro. this position is contradictory: on the one hand, these countries declare themselves in favour of deeper integration, and on the other hand, postpone the accession to the euro for an indefinite future. i believe it is time for the non-euro area member states to present to the european commission and the european central bank a concrete action plan and a deadline for joining the euro. that deadline should not be later than 2025.
mr president, i am gravely concerned about the growing violence and political instability in the democratic republic of congo. it is a situation that is having a terribly bad influence in all the neighbouring countries, and i call on the eu to to take the necessary measures and action for the de-escalation of tensions in that country. the congolese authorities must work to address the current security and humanitarian crisis, ensuring political stability and full respect for human rights in the congolese constitution. a peaceful, transparent, smooth and timely conducting of the next presidential and legislative elections are vital for the security of the great lakes region. we must recall the commitments made by the democratic republic of congo under the cotonou agreement to respect democracy, the rule of law and human rights. these things are not happening, unfortunately. i strongly believe that respect for democracy, peace and the peaceful transfer of power must now be a priority for all political forces in the democratic republic of congo.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, you know well that for over two years, the war in yemen has devastated the country’s infrastructure and undermined its social fabric. yemen was already one of the least developed nations in the world. after years of hostilities, we are now facing a daunting catastrophe where millions of lives are at stake, and this is now unfortunately aggravated by a severe cholera outbreak. as you know, the war in yemen has caused one of the worst humanitarian crises – perhaps the very worst. according to the un, one child is dying of hunger in yemen every 10 minutes – a shocking number. some 20 million people face the grim prospect of famine. the european union, and now the member states, recently pledged eur 430 million in humanitarian aid, out of a total of over eur 1 billion pledges at the geneva pledging conference in april. i was there; i represented the european union, and i saw the fatigue of the international community regarding the humanitarian crisis across the world, but again the european union was the biggest donor in this crisis. i agree totally with the un secretary-general that it is now time for urgent action. these pledges must be translated immediately into the concrete action that the people of yemen need and deserve. humanitarian access remains an issue for the international community. for this reason, we have reached out to the warring parties to push for facilitated access to the populations in need, while requesting an end to all violations of international humanitarian law. but the eu cannot act alone; there must be a truly concerted international effort, and we will continue to actively promote it. we have always maintained, and we continue to believe, that there can be no military solution to this crisis. it is an illusion. as clearly stated in the eu foreign affairs council conclusions on yemen of april 2017, we aim to continue to work with all parties towards a sustained cessation of hostilities. this is the first step. this should be monitored by the united nations, and would serve as a first step towards the resumption of peace talks under the leadership of the un. we offer, as the european union, our full support to the efforts to relaunch the political negotiations. we are ready to do all we can to create the conditions that would enable both sides to de-escalate and move towards a solution. the european union has been involved in sponsoring a number of track ii and peacebuilding initiatives, and will step up its efforts in this regard. but it is essential that all international and regional actors engage constructively and in a coordinated manner. we have been providing considerable humanitarian assistance. although there is no peace deal yet, the european union and other development actors are already preparing the ground for early recovery and reconstruction in areas where access is possible. there are people in need who cannot wait until the war is over, as always. to complete this, we need to reactivate our development cooperation and prepare for the necessary future intervention. if we want peace, we must prepare for it. in this manner, we will be ready to effectively contribute to the re-building of yemen when the moment comes. we will need to focus on sustainable job creation and improved livelihoods. the war in yemen is no longer a domestic or even a regional affair. we believe that the gradual destruction of the country’s infrastructure and social fabric is a major destabilising factor for the international community as a whole. vast areas are already controlled by terrorist groups such as al—qaeda and da’esh. crucial maritime routes are endangered by the hostilities, and there is a real danger that piracy will re-emerge. the nature of the conflict is being exploited to fan the flames of sectarianism. these are all threats to international security that the european union is determined to tackle, together with likeminded partners. you know very well the new development in the region: the new dispute between qatar and other regional countries. federica mogherini, the high representative, has involved the whole college – this is something very important in order to evaluate the situation in the new current circumstances.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, thousands of dead and wounded, merciless attacks on civilians, a disastrous humanitarian situation, with cases of malnutrition, famine, cholera, these are in a few words the sad reality of yemen today. yemenis are living through a horrific civil war and witnessing the collapse of their institutions. we all know that this power vacuum is a breeding ground for terrorist organizations. i am thinking here of the rise of al-qaeda in yemen, but also of the shiite terrorist organizations. beyond yemen, the stability of the whole region is in danger, because, as we all know, this is a proxy war between iran and saudi arabia, a confrontation that is becoming more and more complicated with the recent developments in qatar. what can we do? the eu's humanitarian aid is essential, but the humanitarian situation cannot improve as long as the conflict remains open. the union and its member states should have a greater diplomatic role, in particular by facilitating the peace process under the auspices of the united nations. we need to coordinate our efforts with other actors, and the gulf countries are inevitable in this context. on the other hand, we must focus on several areas: a cessation of the fighting, and the re-establishment of the sanaa airport and the port of hodeida, as they are essential access points for humanitarian aid.
madam president, the conflict in yemen has devastated the lives of millions of people and turned into a major humanitarian crisis. the country is slipping into famine, and this can only get worse as the conflict continues. and as you rightly mentioned before, now we have the cholera outbreak – another major tragedy; a blow into the eyes of humanity. the most important thing to emphasise here is that the two sides are starving because of the war; this is a manmade disaster, and it is very brutal on civilians. both parties are turning starvation into a war instrument – just a war weapon. in addition, i have – and we have – the uncomfortable feeling that the international community and public opinion are turning their eyes from that dramatic conflict, attracted by other major global events. it is a civilian war that is fuelled and supported by regional actors, a bloody image of a shia-sunni conflict in the middle east. why it is important today to underline this fact? because this conflict can be ended with goodwill and with the support of other major regional and global actors, including the european union, and it’s right to mention that iran and saudi arabia – both being more or less our partners – should pay attention and should assume their regional responsibilities, because the responsibility there is bearing on their shoulders. it’s equally important to mention that they can destroy and they can devastate the whole region if the conflict will only continue. it is dangerous today to take a side and, at the end of the day, the only thing which we should care about is human life. for that reason, i call first for pressure to be put on the two sides to stop the conflict immediately and to allow the humanitarian and medical aid; secondly, for full funding for the humanitarian response to be assured; and finally, the european union should have a more important role in the political transition of yemen.
madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, the situation in yemen is extremely worrying. yemen has been plucked by years of instability, war, poor governance, lack of the rule of law, underdevelopment, environmental decline and widespread poverty. millions of people are in acute need and urgently require, immediately, life-saving assistance in at least one sector. moreover, there is a number of serious allegations of violations of international humanitarian law and human rights law committed by all sides. the humanitarian situation is likely to deteriorate further in 2017. without urgent action including full funding for the humanitarian response plan, steps by parties to end the war and to facilitate the resumption of commercial food and other imports and full access to all people in need, the crisis will worsen. it is absolutely essential that the parties to the conflict respect international humanitarian law, allow the importation of food, medical supplies and other necessary goods into yemen and guarantee unhindered movement of humanitarian actors to reach those in need of assistance.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, most of the romanian media and online services are owned by controversial businessmen, many of whom are accused of corruption, fraud and other serious crimes. some of them are politically connected or some of them are even politicians. identifying the owners is sometimes difficult, because it gets lost in a maze of offshore companies. reporters without borders writes in its 2017 report: "in the romanian press, so-called journalists are active who do not write in the interest of the public, but in the interests of the employers". of course, as a romanian, i can tell you that in all the trusts there are also honest journalists, who resist hard, but resist. let's give a few examples of these bosses who have criminal or other problems and dictate editorial policy. the founder and financier of the antena 3 trust, which includes several television, radio and newspaper companies, was sentenced to ten years in prison and declared a securitate collaborator by the judges. another example: romania tv, whose owner was sent to court for three crimes in three cases and fled the country. digi24 tv is under investigation for money laundering and tax evasion. the daily had a convicted felon as a shareholder, and further, the list goes on. basically, these people are imposing their personal agenda as the public agenda. that's why some of the journalists from these institutions attack justice and the fight against corruption on a daily basis.
madam president, the protection of human dignity is often incompatible with freedom of expression. now, it's hard to reconcile these principles in the offline world, but the conquest of the online world has completely transformed the nature of human relationships and the medium we perceive as public space. but i think we should try to enforce the original definition of the liberal idea of freedom of speech: that everyone is free to do whatever he wants, as long as he doesn't restrict the freedom of others by his actions, activities, or even the expression of his opinions. in this sense, we must indeed balance freedom of expression against the human rights guidelines, since everyone is equally important: the one who expresses his opinion, but also the one who is offended by it in his dignity, values and way of life.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of the presidency it is my great pleasure to address this parliament to discuss the 2016 report on serbia. as you know, the western balkans featured on the agenda of the european council in march, where member states reconfirmed the eu’s engagement with the region, including through deepening political and economic ties. the european council discussions in march also clearly reaffirmed the unequivocal support for the european perspective on the western balkans. in this spirit the presidency remains committed to advancing the enlargement process in full respect of the basic principles of conditionality and own merits. serbia has made significant progress in 2016 and the accession negotiations have advanced at a steady pace. the rule of law chapters were opened in july 2016, enabling the eu and serbia to engage closely on this decisive area. i am particularly happy to say that we have managed to keep the momentum in serbia’s accession negotiations under the maltese presidency with an accession conference at ministerial level held on 27 february. on this occasion we were in a position to open chapter 20 – enterprise and industrial policy – as well as to open and provisionally close chapter 26, education and culture. these chapters cover important economic and social aspects which are of interest to serbia’s businesses, youth and citizens in general. reforms strive to meet the expectations of the serbian citizens and not only those of the eu. work on further negotiating chapters is currently being finalised in the council preparatory bodies. once all member states give their agreement, the presidency stands ready to convene another accession conference next week. progress in the accession negotiations is an acknowledgment of serbia’s reform efforts, but it should also serve as an encouragement to the new serbian government, once in place, to remain committed to pursuing this reform path. many areas requiring further reform efforts are rightly spelled out in your draft report. in this regard, let me again underline the particular importance we also attach to key areas such as the rule of law, fundamental rights, public administration reform and economic governance. the rule of law continues to be at the heart of the enlargement process. serbia needs to continue to make progress under the rule of law chapters opened last july, guided by the respective action plans and interim benchmarks. to this end, serbia should intensify reform efforts and focus on effective implementation, which can make a significant contribution to the good results produced by serbia’s economic reforms. in the area of fundamental rights, serbia needs to address shortcomings in the freedom of expression as a matter of priority and ensure respect and protection of minorities. likewise, the normalisation of relations with kosovo will also remain essential for the overall pace of the negotiations, especially the further implementation of agreements reached within the belgrade-pristina dialogue. in this context, serbia’s commitment to remaining constructively engaged in the dialogue and to continuously work on a further normalisation of relations needs to be acknowledged. important steps in the dialogue, such as serbia’s implementation of the telecommunications agreement and the resumption of works on the mitrovica bridge, should serve as an encouragement to take the process forward. we look forward to the continued engagement of all involved and urge serbia to swiftly implement in good faith its part of all past agreements. in the area of regional cooperation we welcome serbia’s constructive engagement and encourage it to continue its efforts to strengthen good neighbourly relations as well as to remain committed to preserving peace and stability in the region. full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia remains essential. on various occasions the council has also reiterated its call on serbia to progressively align with the eu common foreign and security policy, including on restrictive measures in the period up to accession. let me again underline the growing importance of further deepening cooperation on foreign policy issues. i will conclude by again welcoming the continued progress in serbia’s eu accession negotiations and the continued good cooperation with the eu and with the region. let me also recall our appreciation for the constructive contribution of the european parliament, and in particular of your rapporteur, david mcallister, to advance serbia’s accession process to the eu. i can assure you that we pay particular attention to the views of the parliament in this regard.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would first and foremost like to congratulate david mcallister for his resolution on the 2016 report on serbia. this is a balanced and accurate assessment of serbia’s focus on its path to the european union. from our point of view, it is overall in line with the findings of our own report of november 2016 and the commission’s assessment since then. i share your view that serbia has made good progress towards eu membership, which remains serbia’s strategic objective. this has been repeatedly outlined by the serbian authorities and president vučić. serbia’s ambitious economic and structural reform agenda is already delivering results. serbia has shown its commitment to peace and stability in the region: good neighbourly relations, regional cooperation and the continuation of the dialogue with pristina. this is encouraging for the western balkans connectivity agenda and the next trieste summit in july. serbia has also made progress in the reform of its public administration, and has started implementing its ambitious action plans on the rule of law, and serbia is indeed to be commended for its efforts to address the refugee and migration crisis, which continued eu support. this hard work has paid off with eight chapters opened now, two provisionally closed, and a number of other chapters being prepared for opening. serbia should now build on its progress and move decisively ahead with reforms, in particular on the rule of law and the protection of the most vulnerable groups and minorities. it is equally important that serbia continues playing its part in the normalisation of its relations with kosovo. together with you, i regret that some developments have not been of help in this direction, and i look forward to the resumption of the dialogue. i am also encouraged by president vučić’s willingness to launch a domestic dialogue on kosovo. i also share your views that strategic communication to ensure public support and understanding of the benefits and obligations of eu accession is of key importance for eu supporters in serbia. the eu is serbia’s number one partner, including on assistance – eur 2 billion in grants since 2007, and way ahead of any other global partners – and this deserves to be known. from our side, we are making every effort to strengthen our public diplomacy, and i was in serbia only last weekend with that in mind. i can only encourage you to support our efforts in this direction. now that the serbian presidential elections are behind us, i am confident that all energy in serbia will be devoted to the implementation of the reform agenda. whatever the difficulties – and they are real – serbia should not lose sight of its eu membership goal and should continue to act accordingly, doing its part of the job with continued eu support. i appreciate that the european parliament is, in that respect, on the same page.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate david mcallister on his report and, above all, on his personal commitment to helping serbia on its path towards european integration. it is a goal shared by many of us in this parliament. we want serbia to continue the reforms that can bring it closer to europe. we can only rejoice that the accession negotiations are progressing and i am, as david said earlier, happy because i heard commissioner hahn say that new chapters will be opened with serbia in the immediate future. it is a positive message for all countries in the region, which are worried about a potential stagnation of the enlargement process of our union. of course, serbia has a lot more to do, starting with promoting a serious debate about the union, its institutions and the implications of membership. it's a very useful thing to avoid tensions before and after joining. serbia must then continue to progressively align its foreign policy with that of the union, especially with regard to russia, where there is a lot of work to be done. accelerating efforts to fight corruption, strengthen the rule of law, ensure consistent application of minority legislation across the territory and avoid discriminatory treatment are other areas where we want significant progress. finally, i would like to welcome the commitment of the serbian authorities to regional cooperation, but as rapporteur for bosnia and herzegovina, i am concerned about the participation of serbian officials in the celebration of the republic of srpska day, because it was an anniversary against the rule of law in bosnia and herzegovina. i hope that doesn't happen again.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mcallister, and our shadow, tanya fajon, for the fair and balanced draft report. today, we in our group reiterate our commitment to the enlargement process. the accession of the western balkan countries and of serbia remains one of our main priorities. a lot has been achieved in serbia, notably for the improvement of the overall economic situation, the fight against organised crime and the regional cooperation. this report carefully and fairly acknowledges this. but i also have a lot of concerns about the status of democracy in serbia, including the way in which in the recent presidential campaign has been fuelled with populist and nationalist rhetoric and the way in which the freedom of media has been repeatedly undermined. alleged irregularities in the elections are still awaiting an investigation. now some critical remarks, including one on you, mr commissioner. stability in the western balkans is important, but we should not sacrifice our values for stability: both have to go hand in hand when negotiating. in playing with the so-called stabilocracy we might lose what is the most important – serbian citizens and their commitment towards democracy. we have to pay attention to the way the opposition and the freedom of the media are respected and be certain that the civil society concerns are listened to, because the implementation of the reforms matters for its citizens. in a time of global uncertainty, within the union and in the western balkans in particular, with regional and global actors becoming more and more active in the region, the european union has to signal its real commitment to enlargement and for the countries in the region, including serbia, to have unequivocal choices.
mr president, it is rather strange that the situation continues to persist where five eu member states still do not recognise kosovo's independence. the romanian hungarian democratic union was the only one in the romanian parliament that voted in favour of recognizing kosovo after the declaration of independence, unfortunately the romanian foreign ministry's position has not reached this decision since then. recognition is not only essential for the country to take the initial steps towards european integration, but would also create a favourable environment for rapprochement between serbia and kosovo. not to mention the credibility and authority of the eu's common foreign policy approach. i believe that the integration efforts of the western balkan countries should be rewarded, as there are international actors who are also active in the region and in many cases pursue objectives that are contrary to lasting peace. it is a long way to kosovo's eu accession, but it clearly has to be the goal, because the entire western balkans belongs in the eu.
in writing. the council meeting next week has many items on the agenda. there was a lot of talk here about migration, security, defense. these are important points, of course. i am referring to the issue of jobs, growth, competitiveness. madam secretary, you said you'd discuss trade policy, how to keep it free and fair. i wish these points were not passed over. europe will be strong if we truly ensure fair trade, not as it is now, without effective defence policies. it will be strong if young people stop leaving for a better life in the us. we need to increase jobs through a policy of re-industrialization and fair trade agreements.
madam president, i think it is fair to say that there is an agreement in this house that we need to continue to fulfil our commitments to the paris agreement, and i hope this will be seen in the vote which is following on effort sharing, which i hope will have the support of this house. the problem still exists in the support that the member states are giving to the paris agreement targets, because even if we adopt policies with ambition, then we have to have the support of the member states – we need to implement this. this house cannot have a very good say. we need the member states to put the money where they promised they would put the money and to implement these policies we are agreeing upon. the weakness of the agreement lies in its voluntary nature, so the implementation will depend very much on how the global economy will fare. the paris agreement, we need to say, makes economic sense, because it will create more jobs, more prosperity and sustainable growth in our economy. this is something president trump needs to find out.
madam president, commissioner, president trump's decision to withdraw the us from the climate change agreement has created a major problem for the european union and we have to acknowledge this. one of the biggest polluters on the planet, the united states, does not want to participate in measures related to environmental protection. we all think we want to help protect the environment. there's another major polluter, china. the european union cannot take on the task of saving the planet alone. what will the commission, the council on political and economic relations do about the two big polluters? will we continue to fill the market with products that come from a polluted environment and further deindustrialize europe? are we going to destroy jobs? will we leave the young people without jobs? i believe that the european institutions, including us, the parliament, must take responsibility for negotiating any agreement in favour of the european citizens. protecting the climate is vital for the planet and this must be used in all negotiations.
president of the republic of côte d'ivoire. mr president of the european parliament, mr antonio tajani, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to address the european parliament in plenary this morning. it is an honour and a privilege for me, for my country, to be here because you, the elected representatives of more than 500 million european citizens, are an exceptional and prestigious audience because of your cultural diversity, your political commitment and your great experience. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to address with you the major challenges facing africa in the coming decades. i will now turn to my country, côte d'ivoire, which, as you know, is on the road to emergence. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 march 2017, the european union celebrated the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome in the eternal city. these treaties laid the foundations for a working solidarity between formerly warring nations. the founding fathers of the treaty of rome had the ingenious idea of pooling resources and intelligence in the service of building an area of shared peace, security and prosperity. europe is a source of inspiration for the world, and in particular for the african continent. at a time when, unfortunately, we are witnessing a retreat of identity in many parts of the world, i am confident that here, in this noble assembly, you will be able to draw from yourselves the necessary energy to pursue the spirit of solidarity, openness and peace that your predecessors spoke of. this conviction is based on the fact that since its creation, the european union has constantly communicated to humanity its unshakable faith in a world of peace, stability and progress. the nobel peace prize, which you were awarded in 2012, is of course a remarkable illustration of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of humanity will depend on the policies, actions and programmes we define together, in our countries, on our continents and globally. in other words, the world will become what we want it to be. in this context, i would like to address today three major challenges that will have a major impact on the future of our planet and on relations between europe and africa. i know that the president of the commission, mr juncker, has discussed the question of peace and security with you, so i do not want to repeat it. the three challenges i would like to talk about are global warming, migration flows and population growth. i'll start with global warming. on december 12, 2015, world leaders gathered in paris to adopt a historic climate agreement. this agreement, which has been ratified by the vast majority of states, including côte d'ivoire (which has already deposited the instruments of ratification at the un), represents a unique opportunity for our planet to contain global warming within reasonable limits. now more than ever, it is urgent to implement this agreement so that the harmful effects of global warming on humans and the ecosystem can be contained. in this respect, europe, as it has always done in the face of major global challenges, can lead the way. in particular, europe must continue to mobilise the opinions, funding and technologies needed for the energy transition to make the paris agreement irreversible. yes, the paris agreement has given us a historic opportunity, and now we must make it a reality. today, as i speak, torrential rains, which are the consequence of climate disturbances, are causing considerable damage in several parts of my country. similarly, many regions in africa are facing unprecedented drought waves, which are causing death and devastation in many communities and causing mass displacement of populations. so, ladies and gentlemen, i would encourage you to continue to make climate a priority, so that the tragedies we see around the world will end. there are indeed several possibilities to continue to chart the pathways towards green growth that uses little co2. these possibilities include the rational management of natural resources and ecosystems while taking advantage of their value for economic development. we must together foster resilience within communities by reducing all forms of discrimination, including against women. we must all work towards more effective and equitable redistribution policies. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the second challenge i would like to address, which our planet is facing, is that of unregulated migration flows and youth employment. at the valletta summit on migration in november 2015, i told the participating heads of state that the tragic events that are causing the deaths of thousands of people in the waters of the mediterranean and in the sahel require more solidarity and consultation between europe and africa. to do this, we must act in the long term and on all the factors that are causing this situation. in this regard, there is an urgent need to restore peace and security in the sahel-saharan region and to encourage a consensual political solution to the conflict in libya. however, it must be recognised that conflict and organised crime are not the only reasons for the migration flows to europe in recent years. to these factors must be added poverty, i would even say misery, unemployment and the lack of democracy in many countries. that is why, on monday 12 june 2017, at the g20 conference in berlin on a partnership with africa, we suggested the establishment of a plan that would aim to facilitate massive investments in africa to create jobs, especially for young people. this will help to reduce illegal migration flows to europe. given the german chancellor's commitment to this noble cause and the importance of this perspective, many of us suggested that this plan could be called the merkel plan. however, we have noted that intra-african migration is much higher in number than that between africa and europe. for example, côte d'ivoire hosts almost 5.5 million foreign nationals, or 26% of its total population of about 24 million. the remittances of this african diaspora to their countries of origin represent each year almost 1% of côte d'ivoire's gdp. this shows how ivorian hospitality and generosity make a good contribution to the development of neighbouring countries. (applause) i would like to thank my country will continue to show solidarity with all these people. it is therefore important that it is supported so that it can continue to create jobs that will enable it to remain a land of welcome and hospitality. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, young africans who are tempted by the european adventure are often victims of mafia networks and terrorist organisations which feed on their vulnerability and frustration. so we need to act on these young people by educating them, informing them and making them aware that they are better off in africa than anywhere else. they must also be treated with dignity and respect. we must bear in mind the first article of the universal declaration of human rights, adopted by the united nations general assembly on 10 december 1948 in paris, at the palais de chaillot, and i quote: 'all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. they are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. it is in this spirit of openness to cooperation on many issues of global concern that côte d'ivoire will exercise its mandate on the united nations security council for the period 2018-2019. in this connection, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all your countries for the massive support they have given us on the occasion of our election to the united nations security council. this mandate, which will begin on 1 january, will be under the sign of peace, which the ivorian people have elevated to a second religion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last challenge i would like to mention is that of population growth. according to projections by the un population division, the world population, which is currently around 7.4 billion people, including 1.2 billion africans, is expected to exceed 10 billion by 2056. africa will have the highest growth of all, accounting for 50% of global population growth by 2050. this will enable africa to catch up with the population of more developed regions such as north america and europe. nigeria will become the fifth most populous country in 2050, ahead of brazil, the united states, indonesia and pakistan, and the democratic republic of congo and ethiopia will replace russia and mexico in the list of the world's ten most populous countries. this means that the place of these three major countries in the world will be in a few decades. this strong growth will be even more pronounced in the working age population. the working population in sub-saharan africa will increase from 518 million today to 1.3 billion in 2050. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, africa, the cradle of humanity, will paradoxically continue to be the youngest region in the world until the end of this century. this is a question for all african leaders, but also for leaders around the world. the stability of africa, and indeed of the rest of the world, will depend on how the youth issue is dealt with in the coming decades. taking account of population growth in development programmes will require a particular focus on human capital, including education, health and vocational training. massive investments will also have to be made in infrastructure, including major subregional projects, transport, electricity, education and health. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would now like to talk about the progress made by my country, côte d'ivoire, which, after more than a decade of crisis, is now at peace. it has also been linked to economic growth. these advances are primarily the result of the mobilization and determination of the ivorian people. they have also been made possible by the significant technical and financial contribution of our partners in the european union, notably in the fields of governance, agriculture and energy. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to warmly welcome and thank the european union for its support and assistance. partnership with the international community, and particularly the european union, has enabled côte d'ivoire to achieve exceptional performance. over the past six years, the average growth rate of the economy has been 9% per annum. the projections for the period 2017-2020 are around 7 to 8% per year. the inflation rate has been kept below 2% by the euro peg and the budget deficit has been brought under control at around 3% of gdp. this year, of course, the situation is a little different, because of the drastic fall, of almost 40% since the beginning of the year, in the price of cocoa, of which we are the world's leading producer. nevertheless, we will continue to make efforts to master the macroeconomic framework. the ivory coast remains the world's leading producer of cocoa and cashew nuts. we are also africa's leading producer of palm oil and rubber. côte d'ivoire is one of the top reformers in the world bank's 'doing business' ranking. in the energy sector, côte d'ivoire is on its way to becoming an energy hub in west africa, with a capacity of 2,000 mw in 2016, which will increase to 4,000 mw in 2020. today, côte d'ivoire has one of the densest and most diverse infrastructure networks in africa, thanks to its roads, ports and airports. finally, côte d'ivoire has made significant progress in the field of security reform, including disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration of former combatants, to which the european union has successfully contributed. recent events do not call this good development into question, as the safety index is now at the same level as in geneva or new york. these reforms will be continued and intensified in order to equip côte d'ivoire with defence and security forces that can contribute to peacekeeping operations. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few years before the cotonou partnership agreement expires in 2020 and at a time when we must consider a new agreement between africa and europe, i would like to suggest some ideas inspired by the exemplary relations that côte d'ivoire has enjoyed with the european union. these relations must be open, based on mutual trust and, of course, on national ownership. they should make use of flexible financing instruments and take into account national management and control mechanisms, which could be strengthened if necessary. of course, we will have the opportunity to discuss these matters of great importance to my country in greater depth. in conclusion, i would like to invite all the countries you represent to take part in the next european union-africa summit, which will be held in abidjan in november. this important meeting, which will take place in the pure tradition of ivorian hospitality, will be an opportunity to discuss the international cooperation needed to meet the new challenges facing humanity, in particular issues related to youth and development. mr president, i would like to thank you again. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you very much and i thank president tajani for his invitation. i am impressed by your warm welcome and your substantial participation, which gave me the opportunity to present the challenges we face, not only in côte d'ivoire, but also across the african continent, and to talk about the evolution of côte d'ivoire. thank you. thank you, each and every one of you. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i would like to ask colleagues to refer the matter back to the committee for starting the interinstitutional negotiations. this is based on rule 59(4.4).
mr president, i have to say that there are good things in the report, amendments that i voted for, such as article 7 on providing incentives for smes and small farms. i would like to support this report in its entirety, but we have to be realistic: there are a lot of things in the report that will mainly affect the smaller and less developed countries, such as articles that provide for the introduction of additional delegated acts, and we do not know what these delegated acts will contain. i think it will be the citizens who need the most support who will suffer. reducing emissions is a necessity, but the targets proposed must be rational and in line with the possibilities of each country, because we have a job crisis, and we have problems with regional disparities and very different per capita incomes. so i abstained, and i hope that this ratio will improve, because yes, we need to reduce emissions, but we also need more jobs and more income per capita.
mr. president, i supported this report. i think it is an important report and, contrary to what some colleagues have said, the fact that it is subsidiarity does not mean that we should not be concerned at european level. the report makes very clear that examples of good practice from other countries should be shared. there are obviously differences between the pension systems of one country and another, but here we are talking about the fact that there is a gap between the pensions of women and men and the report has spoken about the cause. for example, the fact that women are more often forced to stop working to raise children and obviously then the contribution to the pension is lower and the pension will be lower. i really think we need to have a report like this, especially since the report proposes to member states to increase investment, to increase investment in child services, because, of course, if there are places in every country where children can grow up safely, mothers can continue their careers. that is why i supported the report and congratulated the report.
mr president the report on serbia gives due weight to the issue of respect for and protection of minorities, with particular emphasis on the action plan for the enforcement of the rights of national minorities and the regulation establishing a fund for the support of national minorities. it also covers issues of language use, education, public administration, local and regional authorities, the media and the churches. the text stresses the importance of giving due weight to the issue of national minorities and advocates the preservation of the autonomy and multiethnicity of the province. the eu is also a major player in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and the eu is a major player in the fight against racism and xenophobia. we hope that this consistent attention will continue after accession. in any case, when a member state or a candidate country talks about exemplary respect for minority rights, there is always a problem.
mr president, i am not among those who believe that we need to rebuild the european union from the ground up. we do not need a revolution. many of the ills attributed to the eu are either not its fault in the first place, or are exaggerated, as is the case of the famous democratic deficit issue. i can definitely say that the eu legislative process is considerably more transparent, accountable and inclusive than the one from my country. that said, there is room to be more effective, resilient and more capable of addressing citizens’ expectations. already now, the current treaties offer most responses to these issues, but these responses are often ignored. considering the extent of its title, no one could call our debate unambitious. allow me to insist on the ‘value’ part, as they are set out in article 2 of the treaty. we all know that the european union is supposed to be founded, among other things, on the value of equality, non-discrimination and respect for diversity. still, we have a long way to go to ensure the effective protection of these values. in the particular area of national, autochthonous or language minorities, the eu has not been able to prevent discriminative practices having a negative impact on the language and culture of persons belonging to such groups and ultimately to the intra-eu diversity we are supposed to cherish. more than 60 million citizens expect acknowledgement of their existence by the eu institutions.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i'm not going to take the title. it's important to look at the background. we are not being honest with ourselves if we do not reconsider and reset europe. we need to rebuild a europe based on true values, a united europe, commissioner. i want you to stop giving out scenarios and feeding the eurosceptics. i am pro-european and i entered politics precisely because i want everything in my country and in the european union to be built on values. but if now, when my country has been here for ten years, it is still outside of one space, we have several spaces: schengen space, non-schengen, we have different rights, we are citizens. citizens need to understand that in order to be united they also have access to the things, the values that we talk about and i think, commissioner, that we need to invest more in education, so that people understand. political leaders are elected, and for citizens to make the right choices, they have to be educated people, have a set of values that guide us in choosing our leaders. and finally, i say that both national leaders and european leaders have a maximum responsibility now. we have indeed built a europe based on values.
in writing. in the current context, values are the key to rebuilding the union, which is facing loss of identity and community, high social, economic, cultural, safety and security risks, uncertainty and uncertainty. it should be borne in mind that the european union is not only a political union but also a cultural and identity union (unity in diversity). eu values are currently under threat from those who do not understand them and from those who fear them. the future of the eu depends on putting the union's values at the heart of all european policies, actions and measures. anchoring in democratic, efficient and effective institutions means that all european or global problems are addressed from a european perspective, a democratic perspective, the rule of law, prosperity and fairness. so terrorism, migration, economic, food and social insecurity can find their way. however, the values on which the eu is founded, in accordance with article 2 of the treaty on european union (teu), namely respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, must be promoted, protected and upheld at all times, especially among young people.
blue-card question. – mr sant, over a year ago you expressed your view that minister mizzi should resign. how do you feel about the fact that he has been reinstated after the maltese elections?
mr president, the panama papers have revealed and triggered a corruption scandal involving the prime minister of malta, who is here with us in the room. the corruption scandal needs to be investigated to the end, as do all the corruption and tax evasion scandals that the panama papers have revealed. in order to fight corruption, evasion and money laundering, it is mandatory to eliminate all bearer shares in all member states, including my country, romania. bearer shares are blank cheques, they don't contain the name of the owner, they leave no trace, there's no control and they're anonymous. when the shares move from one hand to another, the owner changes, too, without a trace. i repeat, about three trillion dollars are lost every year worldwide through money laundering, of which only 1% is recovered. we owe it to the people to get them all back.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the pana inquiry committee in the european parliament has been taking the maltese case seriously and organised a fact-finding mission to valletta in february 2017. it seems that on the one hand the maltese tax system is in line with current international eu standards as regards harmful tax competition, but that, nonetheless, the system provides for advantages, making it highly attractive for business and wealthy individuals to settle there. moreover, a high number of intermediaries from malta were involved in the panama papers, with some intermediaries having worked with politically-exposed persons. it is regrettable that keith schembri refused to appear to be before pana, and that institutions in charge of implementing and enforcing rules as regards tax fraud and money laundering were highly politicised. this must be condemned by all means. and the other side, last but not least, allow me to praise the successful activity of malta leading the eu council.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. madam president, as mentioned, the efsi 2 is currently being negotiated. i think this extension is a positive thing, but i think our colleagues who are negotiating at the moment should take account of the conclusions of this implementation report. these are indeed good results, but we must also take into account certain things: the amounts presented as realised do not capture reality, that is, the money that has reached the beneficiaries. the credit ceilings given to banks do not think they have reached the beneficiaries yet and this must be taken into account: only 60% of the money is private money. so there needs to be more transparency about these amounts, about the reasons for the refusal. the efsi should not replace grants, the efsi should, together with the structural funds, contribute to investment and much more promotion of the efsi is needed in all member states.
madam president, efsi is without any doubt a successful programme. it is on track to achieve its ambitious target of generating an additional eur 315 billion of investment in the eu member states. but now let us use this debate also to reflect on what we can improve and how we can make efsi even better in the future. one element which we can improve is the geographical distribution. we said at the very beginning that we do not want to allocate certain quotas to member states and i think that that was the correct approach. we should not change that but should continue to finance the best projects irrespective of the country they come from. however, we are seeing that 73% of the projects are concentrated in five member states, particularly countries in which the investment gap is below average. so what we should do is advise: use the advisor we have to help assist those countries that have not yet benefited from efsi and use this advisor we have to help those countries in particular which do not have developed financial markets to create a level playing field so that all 28 member states can benefit equally from this project. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – so what we should do to help these countries and these regions is promote efsi, not only in the urban areas but also in the rural areas. encourage the advisor we have, the eib, to provide assistance to people who want to write projects, and create also a level playing field in terms of financial market developments, particularly to assist the countries which do not have promotional banks in the establishment of promotional banks. this will help create a level playing field and give all beneficiaries equal opportunities and equal chances vis à vis efsi.
madam president, commissioner, i should like to start by congratulating the rapporteurs. they have done an exact x-ray of what happened with efsi 1 and i want to remind here, as mr bullmann said, that it was not good enough, i said from the beginning, the first-come-first-served criterion. let's be very clear, let's not steal our hats: rural areas, the poorer areas, they don't have the administrative capacity to write projects and they'll never be the first. i think we must use other criteria if we really want this strategic investment fund to lead to social cohesion and the development of poorer areas. that's why i think the reporters did a very good job. smes are not getting there, especially small businesses. i am in charge of the intergroup and i see that smes are complaining because they have no guarantee that they can access this fund. i think efsi 2 has the advantage that it has the experience of efsi 1 and we can correct and i rely very much on the rapporteurs and the commission, obviously, for the correction (the chairman interrupts the speaker).
in writing. addressing child poverty is a key issue in reaching out to disadvantaged groups. children who grow up in social exclusion and severe deprivation have a much higher rate of school dropout, and in general, they have significantly lower academic performance, making it harder for them to enter the labour market and closing the loop. child poverty is the most serious problem in roma communities in the central eastern european states, and without tackling it, recovery programmes are far less likely to try to change the current dire situation. in particular, we need to see more clearly the accompanying symptoms of child poverty, school dropout, domestic violence, housing problems in order to identify effective areas and methods of intervention. it is much more difficult to launch and run self-sustaining programmes in the field than at the planning table, so it would be important to share good practices that work and, of course, to have the courage of the member states and local authorities, as the power to intervene lies primarily in their hands.
in writing. – every child in europe deserves to live free from poverty. nevertheless, one in four children in the eu is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. as a member of the socialists and democrats group in the european parliament, i strongly support creating a european child guarantee that protects every child in the eu. fighting the root causes of child poverty should become a top priority for the european institutions. in the eu, only five eu member states, including romania, have seen a slight reduction in the number of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion. i am proud to see my country on the right track, but a lot needs to be done still. the only way to ensure stable societies and prosperous economies is by investing in education and reducing inequality. if we do not act as soon as possible so that every child can have access to free healthcare, free education, free childcare, decent housing and adequate nutrition, we run the risk of losing a whole generation of children in europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the consistent and balanced text they have produced. there is already a consensus that the sharing economy brings benefits in terms of both diversifying the supply of services and making the labour market more flexible. in transport, the sharing economy has had a positive effect on decongestion and lower fares, and tourism has been revolutionised, in particular by the increase in transactions mediated by online platforms. however, there are still a few issues that require rapid action at european level. i am a strong supporter of all the opportunities that the collaborative economy brings to the european business environment, but also a supporter of a fair competitive environment. it is therefore necessary that the sharing economy is not used as a means of avoiding tax obligations. transparency and collaboration between competent authorities and collaborative platforms on tax compliance and tax collection is needed. the new professional opportunities should also not lead to the erosion of social aspects, and the european legislative framework should provide adequate protection for all those working in the sharing economy, regardless of their status.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have repeatedly urged the european commission to come forward with a revision of the regulation on the statute and functioning of political parties and the financing of political parties. with this resolution, we draw attention to the fact that there are a number of shortcomings and loopholes in the current regulation that can have a negative impact on democracy at european level. unfortunately, the unresolved issues of the past still resonate today and can affect the future of european construction. for several years now, extremist parties have infiltrated the political groups of the european parliament and are endangering the credibility of this institution and european values as a whole. that is why we must ensure that we have the necessary democratic instruments at our disposal and that they work to strengthen the european process. the aspects of co-financing the activities of european parties and the criteria for multi-party membership are key elements that need to be reviewed as soon as possible in order to prevent populist scenarios. by amending the problematic provisions of this regulation, i believe we can achieve a truly european political scene and a european parliament that represents the interests of the union and its citizens in a responsible and responsible way.
madam president, i believe that it is essential for the commission to outline what concrete results have been achieved by mainstreaming industrial competitiveness into eu policy. in the light of, on the one hand, the decline in the role of industry in the overall economy and, on the other hand, of the critical challenges facing europe, we should be aware of the commission’s possible reactions and know what action will it take to deal with the factors impacting the global competitiveness of european union industry. i believe that the commission should respond to the calls to provide an assessment of the impact of mainstreaming industrial policy into the eu strategic initiatives and to submit a holistic eu industrial policy strategy together with a corresponding action plan. this is a must, commissioner, and it should include an initiative in the commission’s 2018 work programme.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, like my colleagues, i condemn the kidnapping and detention of journalist afgan mukhtarli, which is an attack on the freedom of the press, which, as we know, is a non-negotiable value for us. i therefore call for the immediate release of afghan mukhtarli and for thorough and honest investigations into his abduction, both in azerbaijan and georgia. in february, when president ilham aliyev came to brussels, we showed our openness to strengthening cooperation with azerbaijan in various fields, from energy to trade, but also to discussing more often the foundation on which this cooperation must be built: respect for fundamental freedoms. i therefore invite our azerbaijani partners to discuss with us in an open manner, particularly in the framework of our parliamentary cooperation, the best ways of implementing these values, which alone can be the basis for prosperity and stability. i am sure that the presence of commissioner hahn in baku next week will send the same message: our willingness to cooperate, but also the importance we attach to the values of freedom.
madam president, i speak in my capacity as the parliament's rapporteur for azerbaijan. i have been following your statements very closely and one thing has struck me: many of you speak in terms of 'if these allegations are true, i could be an accomplice'. i think that a parliament has an obligation to rule by an emergency resolution on very clear issues. two investigations are currently underway: one in baku and one in tbilisi. if azerbaijan is not a country that has a track record of protecting human rights, we all know very well, i think that no one in this room has any doubts about georgia. i believe that commissioner hahn's approach is legitimate, fair and consistent with the eastern partnership policy. we have an obligation to clarify a situation first and then to react with all the means at our disposal, parliament and the union. starting from such allegations, we risk to greatly strain the relations in the area. it is very important to me that we take a solid and serious approach and postpone this vote after we have a very clear perception of the commission.
madam president, commissioner, there has certainly been a discussion here, as our colleague norica nicolai said, of a situation in which we do not yet have all the relevant data. i think we have to be a responsible parliament. and i am a member of the euronest parliamentary assembly. we know the problems in azerbaijan and in other countries. we know that azerbaijan is important in euronest and has an agenda related to the european union, but i also think that we need to postpone this resolution, to document ourselves and come up with very precise things. it's certainly a man's life. it's about freedom of the press. at the same time, we need to have all the facts before we make decisions, and that's my point. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i understand your colleague's question and i appreciate it very much. besides, i have every respect for our colleague. i know his work in parliament and in the committee. yes, sure, i read the resolution. i was merely saying that it is not that a resolution is not needed, but that, in my view, it is too soon to make a resolution so quickly, without waiting, as the commissioner said, for more detailed documentation. not that you don't have to. i argue that we need to have a resolution for azerbaijan, but not now.
i want to support very strongly this resolution which criticises the way the death penalty is abused in pakistan. i am a lifelong opponent of the death penalty and i am very happy that the eu has this philosophy and criticizes the use and abuse of the death penalty in individual countries around the world. it is worth noting that pakistan has withdrawn from the 2015 moratorium and is using the death penalty again. he originally wanted to use it only against the most serious crimes, such as terrorism, murder, etc., but my predecessors have already made it clear that at the moment this punishment is being abused, and in principle also for political acts, such as blasphemy. the blasphemy law, which has also been mentioned here several times, should be criticized alongside the death penalty. it is clearly targeted, the death penalty, against freedom of speech, freedom of expression and we should make it clear to pakistan that if it wants to be a future partner of the eu and have a privileged position, it cannot abuse the death penalty in this way and cannot bend human rights in its country in this way.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, i am glad you spoke about the pakistani people, because very often we confuse the citizens of a country with the decisions of some leaders. but i think this resolution is necessary, and i ask you: can anything be put in the balance with people's lives? we still have the death penalty there. do you agree that pakistan should still have the death penalty and risk innocent people ending up dead because of a decision by some temporary rulers?
mr president, even though i understand the pakistani position and pakistan’s peculiar situation, i still believe that the current situation is not acceptable. the death penalty is a cruel and inhumane punishment that fails to act as a deterrent, and risks irreversible miscarriages of justice. i strongly support the call for the universal abolition of capital punishment, and the call on pakistan to reinstate a full moratorium on the death penalty. the pakistani authorities should also launch an investigation into the credible concerns of individuals with mental or intellectual disabilities or disorders who have been sentenced to the death penalty. i support the creation of a public prosecutor to investigate and prosecute attacks against journalists in pakistan. finally, i believe the pakistan authorities should grant access to international observers and human rights organisations to monitor their inappropriate use of military courts. last, but not least, i would like to mention – and also to underline – the importance of eu relations with pakistan.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief. i'm not even using the 30 seconds. in short: do you consider it a fantasy that there is a death penalty and that there are people who are punished by having their lives taken? do you consider this a fantasy? because you said the resolution is a fantasy.
mr president, the blasphemy laws of the world’s largest muslim—majority democracy represent an unlawful restriction on the freedom of expression, which disproportionately target persons belonging to religious minorities, traditional religions, non-believers and political dissidents. of great concern are also the serious actions against the freedom of the media, the physical abuse of journalists and general growing intolerance against minorities, which are increasing together with the influence of fringe islamist groups. i sincerely hope that, for the sake of promoting a tolerant society, indonesia will repeal all legal provisions unduly restricting fundamental freedoms and human rights, which go beyond the provisions of the international human rights obligations it subscribed to.
madam president, in the debate we had today, members of various political groups, including myself, the socialist group and the liberal group, expressed the wish to postpone the vote. i therefore invite you to put this request to the vote.
madam president, commissioner, let me first of all say 'happy birthday' to all the families of the world. i'm a big family woman, and i just celebrated my 40th wedding anniversary. we have to recognize here that there are two causes for why we have problems with children in families. on the one hand, poverty, where families can't even provide for them, can't even educate them, and there, in the countryside, we need kindergartens, we need kindergartens, but we also need to raise living standards, so that children can live with their parents. the second cause: i have identified it in many countries and recently it is the case in finland. there are loopholes through which, through national legislation, there is an excess of zeal in taking children away from their parents for one reason or another. we have the case of that doctor in finland, where the two children, as we speak, are separated from their mother, and the mother is a doctor and can take care of them. nowhere can children feel love and peace, only with their parents, and i think that's where we need to act. there is subsidiarity, but i think we can intervene so that on the one hand there is no excess in taking children away from the family and institutionalizing them, and on the other hand, we can see how we invest in education, in the possibility of increasing family income, so that it is recognized, for example, in pensions, maternity leave is in a larger amount, so that we can justify it, because we are not good with demography.
madam president, commissioner, it is clear from the few speeches here that it is a pity that we are few, that something must be done. there has to be a responsibility of the platform owners. we can't have fake news. not only do they destroy a person's image or even the family, but we have life issues here. there are children who, as shown here -- and in our country, there's this stupid game of blue whale -- children die. it can't be. sure, we're in the digital age. i'm glad that, madam president, you're a supporter of consumer rights. this is where the consumer's right to be protected comes in, and we urgently need to intervene with a regulation on liability: everyone is responsible for false information. this doesn't mean we don't want freedom of the press, but we do want accountability for those who circulate information on online platforms. after all, we have also discussed this a lot in the imco committee, madam president, and this online and offline trade must have the same conditions, the same protection for consumers, the same conditions.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr sorin moisă, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova (com (((2017) 0014 c8-0016/2017 2017/0007 cod)) (a8-0185/2017).
rapporteur. – mr president, the republic of moldova is in the process of recovering its economic stability after several very harsh years. due to various circumstances – some domestic and self—inflicted, such as the well-known bank fraud, which has also led to an interruption of external support, and some external, such as a sharp decrease in exports to russia and ukraine – moldova faces an external balance of payments crisis and has asked for assistance from international donors, notably the imf and the eu. in november last year, the imf approved the three—year programme in the amount of almost usd 180 million and this programme is now well on track. the imf has also calculated the country’s residual external financial needs for 2016—2018 at approximately eur 400 million. the eu has also resumed its budgetary support operations, following the interruption in the context of the bank fraud, through the european neighbourhood instrument. in january 2017, the commission proposed the instrument that we are discussing today, a macro—financial assistance package covering approximately 25% – so only a quarter – of the country’s financial needs as identified by the imf. this is in order to address the short-term balance of payments and fiscal vulnerabilities of the moldovan economy. the proposed assistance therefore amounts to eur 100 million; eur 60 million would be a loan and eur 40 million would be a grant to be disbursed in three instalments in 2017 – ideally – and in 2018. the commission had proposed in its original draft text that strong conditionalities be attached to the assistance. these conditionalities have been thoroughly discussed in the two committees giving opinions in this house, the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets, and of course in the committee on international trade. the result has been even stronger conditionalities attached to the disbursement of each of the three instalments. the principle is: no reforms, no money. it is the first time that the eu has taken such a tough stance, as the practice of the eu until now has been to grant the first instalment immediately and only attach some conditions to the subsequent ones. the ambitious programme of reforms will cover financial sector governance, public sector governance, the fight against corruption, the fight against money laundering, energy sector reforms, and improvement of the business and investment climate. parliament’s amendments have put strong emphasis on the independence of the judiciary, freedom and pluralism of the media, the depoliticisation of public administration, and the need to fight corruption and money laundering and to support the implementation of the dcfta. we have clarified that conditions are to be attached to the disbursement of each and every one of the three instalments, that benchmarks should be clear as required by the european court of auditors, and that the assistance shall be immediately suspended or terminated if the conditions are not met. if done properly, it is my strong belief that these reforms have a high potential systemic impact. these are reforms that will discipline and constrain the exercise of power by the government and any other economic or political actor for generations to come. the other two institutions have accepted one hundred percent of our requests. the agreement reached during the trilogue also includes a joint statement by parliament, the council and the commission recalling that the necessary precondition for the disbursement of the assistance is respect for effective democratic institutions. i have come up with this proposal to adopt this joint statement in order to address the concerns of colleagues in this house regarding the recent initiative by the authorities to change the electoral system in the republic of moldova. the process is still ongoing and the venice commission has recently made public its opinion on this process. it is key that the moldovan authorities duly take into account this recommendation. the joint statement puts a strong emphasis on the fact that the consideration by the moldovan authorities of the recommendations of the venice commission will be part of the regular monitoring of the respect for the aforementioned precondition. the regular monitoring of this precondition is in fact a mandate that we have created and are giving to the commission. i would encourage the commission today to reconfirm the strength of its commitment in the context of this instrument that we have created together. this is important and is the underpinning factor for the consensus we have achieved in the house. to conclude, in its current form, the decision gives us the green light – if we vote positively tomorrow – for the aid to moldova. however, it does not mean immediate disbursement. if the decision is positive, the first instalment of the disbursement will reach moldova in december. the european union is therefore equipped with the right set of instruments to react to any potential developments in the republic of moldova. i will conclude by thanking the shadows mr winkler from the ppe, mr takkula from alde, mr zahradil from the ecr, mr scholz from gue and ms hautala from the greens, as well as mr auštrevičius and mr mureşan, the rapporteurs for the opinion from the two opinion committees, and also mr preda from the ppe group, who has played a key role in building a consensus in this house.
the committee on budgets is the rapporteur for the opinion. mr president, mr vice-president dombrovskis, ladies and gentlemen, my objective as rapporteur for the committee on budgets was to ensure that the republic of moldova meets the necessary conditions to receive these european funds and that we create the conditions, the premises for the money to go where it is needed most, namely to the people. what criteria am i referring to? firstly, the preconditions for the existence of the rule of law and a multiparty system, and in this area, mr vice-president dombrovskis, i ask you that the european commission do everything necessary with the chisinau authorities to ensure that the electoral system fully complies with the recommendations of the venice commission so that this money can reach the citizens only under these conditions and, only if the recommendations of the venice commission are fully implemented, can the money reach the people. secondly, i refer to the conditions relating to the fight against corruption, the fight against money laundering, which the rapporteur has mentioned and which i have included in the opinion of the committee on budgets. here, mr vice-president, the role of the european commission is very clear: to monitor the situation closely and to ensure that each instalment is paid only if these concrete conditions are met. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr lucke raised a blue card too late for the first speaker, mr auštrevičius, and too early for the next speaker, mr mureșan. so as such, you can't, because you had to do it while mr. auštrevičius was speaking.
you did not do that while mr auštrevičius was delivering his speech. no, everybody saw that. and then you asked for a blue card to mr mureşan who had not started to speak, so is it to me? okay, you have the floor.
it means that you knew in advance what mr mureşan would say, and therefore that would provoke your blue card. is this the understanding? let me tell you that you have a very good sense of premonition.
that is all right. you may ask your question.
blue-card answer. – the position of the european union has been constant throughout recent years and we have always said that if the international monetary fund comes to the conclusion that the republic of moldova’s debt is sustainable, the economy is strong enough and the conditions of an agreement with the imf are met, then the european union stands ready also to help the republic of moldova. in november last year, the imf came to a positive conclusion and decided to proceed to give credit to the republic of moldova. given these circumstances, i am of the opinion that, economically, the republic of moldova is in a condition to receive this financing and to return it. however, all of the other political conditionalities mentioned by commissioner dombrovskis and i remain important to make sure that the money reaches its objective.
blue-card question. – as you know, the basic issue here is whether to let the republic of moldova go into the eurasian economic union, cooperating with russia, or to bring it closer to the european union. this is ultimately what it is about. do you not think that, if we don’t grant this macro-financial assistance, the people of the republic of moldova are going to be very disappointed vis-à-vis the position of the european union, and that we have to do whatever we can in order to bring them to the west not to the east?
mr president, the republic of moldova needs macro-financial assistance, and when i say the republic of moldova, i mean its citizens, not its politicians. unfortunately, mr dodon, the chairman, and mr plahotniuc, the coordinator, did not understand this. instead of supporting the reforms that the citizens need, the two decided that the absolute priority today is a new electoral law, one that would ensure their eternal re-election to office. moreover, the serbian mp, the parliament's rapporteur for this law, a combination of a dodon draft and a plahotniuc draft, said very clearly: we intend to have only two parties. the venice commission has explained the timelessness of this electoral law and i am pleased to see the statement from the european commission, made by commissioner dombrovskis, who explained the conditions under which the money from this macro-financial assistance will be sent to moldova. i will say more clearly what i said to the gentlemen from the democratic party who were invited by their colleagues from the socialist group in the european parliament in brussels: withdraw this electoral bill. he has nothing to do with the urgencies of moldovan society. no european citizen is willing to pay money for electoral experiments or for the power ambitions of putin's friend dodon and the friend of the european socialists, plahotniuc. pull this project back. think of the interests of the citizens, not your own perpetuation of power. that's, i think, the condition under which we have to send the money to chisinau.
mr president, if the republic of moldova is on the agenda of our plenary session today it is because that country is, and remains, at the top of the union’s agenda. and, let me be absolutely clear on this, moldova on its european path has the full support and commitment of four political groups across this parliament. macro-financial assistance is one of many tools at our disposal for accompanying and supporting the republic of moldova on its process of political association and economic integration with the european union and, although some areas require additional efforts, overall there has been substantial progress since the start of the current executive’s term of office. this week, after very thorough, comprehensive and attentive negotiations with the council and the commission based on a clear mandate, the house will vote on this macro-financial assistance. this support will not only be a sign of recognition of the renewed commitment by the executive, it will also constitute an additional lever of motivation and pressure for the implementation of the much-needed reform agenda, in line with the association agreement, the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement and all the views colleagues in the house have expressed today. but first and foremost, eu macro-financial assistance will acknowledge the european aspirations and ambitions of the moldovan people, and will also convey a strong signal of support and encouragement at this important and difficult time. i would like to underline the fact that the eu will be applying rigorous, clear and strict conditionality criteria, in line with parliament’s position, and that this conditionality will be attached to the disbursement of each tranche, including the first one. as i have emphasised before, this parliament has been most effective and successful when it has acted with full consensus in its approach vis-à-vis the republic of moldova. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur, as well as and especially mr auštrevičius, ms harms and ms fotyga, for supporting moldova at this crucial time.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that the european neighbourhood instrument, which supports this macrofinancial assistance to the republic of moldova, is fully justified, as the commission has stated, and from this understanding it is not, in practice, a gesture of extreme goodwill towards moldova, but it is largely a loan that is conditional on meeting certain criteria. the criteria that the commission and the council have proposed are the right ones, they are in line with the european values that we all have to protect. what, in my view, is not right is to introduce a new criterion, a new conditionality, which is part of the electoral law. ladies and gentlemen, the european union must respect its own values and one of those values is that it can never afford to interfere in elements of the sovereignty of a state. the european union cannot ask a member state for a particular type of electoral law. this is the sovereign will of the state concerned and i believe that to introduce an additional criterion in this respect would be to fall into a kind of cheap populism and politicalism which does not in any way do honour to this parliament.
i can only see that there are good oligarchs and bad oligarchs.
mr. president, i will vote for this assistance to the republic of moldova. i want to emphasize that the people of the republic of moldova have suffered perhaps more than the people of any other country in transition - starting with the deportations to siberia and ending with this transition, which no longer seems to end in moldova. i want to support fully the position of the european commission as presented by first vice-president dombrovskis: it is correct and fair. we will approve this assistance agreement and the release of money to moldova will be exactly as the first vice-president has made very clear, as long as the conditions set are met.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have said from the outset that i will vote for this report and i will also argue for it. i don't know how many of you have visited, and how many times, the republic of moldova. since 1990, i've been going three or four times a year. there are things that have been in progress, there are many things that need to be changed, but for three who robbed the bank, we will not punish the citizens of the republic of moldova. the republic of moldova needs macro-financial assistance and the commission has very well presented the economic and political conditionalities. the rapporteur has also prepared, together with the shadow rapporteurs, a report which is to be put to the vote and which will bring this extraordinarily important support to the republic of moldova. we cannot reject the granting of macro-financial assistance, because it would deprive the european union of a useful instrument for promoting reforms in the republic of moldova and would discourage the citizens of this state. in the global context, i believe that the trust of citizens in the european union needs to be increased; and of the citizens of the republic of moldova. i shall therefore vote in favour of this report and congratulate the rapporteurs.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like first of all to thank the commission for the very clear stance on the joint statement adopted by the three institutions and the intention stated here publicly, beyond doubt, to properly enforce it. i hope that is to the satisfaction of most colleagues, and i was happy to see that both mr preda and mr stolojan seemed to be satisfied with the commission’s very clear position. i shall tackle very briefly some of the issues that were raised on this. the common thread of the discussion has been the alleged – probably real – excessive power of some business people or oligarchs in moldova. i truly believe in the following reality: the package of conditionalities attached to this mfa has true transformative potential to limit any type of arbitrary exercise of power in the republic of moldova. we have focused so much on the electoral issue – which is important, that is why we have addressed it through the joint declaration – but i truly believe that the reforms will be there for a generation, maybe those attached to the package itself, and this is far more important than simply a discussion on electoral reform nowadays. i also believe that there is a false dichotomy between corruption and competitiveness. in order for a country to be competitive, it cannot be corrupt. it does need to address corruption, so i believe we are doing the right thing with the dcft, on the one hand, and with properly addressing and incentivising the fight against corruption moldova, that is indeed the right thing to do. i would also encourage the moldovan authorities to truly reach out to the opposition and to civil society, and engage in this discussion if the discussion continues on the transformation of the electoral system, but i also encourage the other parties to accept the invitation for dialogue. a proper democracy requires loyal democrats on all sides. and there is a bit of a paradox here: if you try to impose consensus from the outside, then a party walking out of that consensus could have a sort of veto power which may be seen as unfair. all of that said, i believe we have, if not a consensus, then we are close to a significant majority here ourselves and i hope that this will be confirmed by a positive vote tomorrow. thank you again to all of you who have contributed to building this consensus in the house.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 july 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the republic of moldova is in urgent need of financial support and the european union's decision to provide €100 million in aid is a strong signal of solidarity with the country and its citizens. romania and moldova have a close relationship, united by a common language and a common past, and our country wants moldova to be part of the european family. romania therefore supports the decision to grant macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova, considering that the pro-european evolution of the prut neighbours can only be achieved through concrete measures. beyond the economic aspects, this decision should be seen as a proof of the eu's commitment to support the republic of moldova in implementing structural reforms. at the same time, in the context of the union's long-term geostrategic objectives, support for moldova becomes essential to ensure a stable political climate at its borders. the macro-financial assistance is not a gift, however, and is accompanied by very strict conditions. the political and economic conditionalities set out in the decision and the memorandum of understanding provide the union with a robust tool to monitor the reform process in moldova and moldova will need to fulfil these conditionalities before the release of each tranche of assistance.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms marlene mizzi, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on european standards implementation of regulation (eu) no 1025/2012 (2016/2274 (ini)) (a8-0213/2017).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the proposal for a report on standardisation, since standards are instruments which help to strike a fair balance between the european national and international dimensions. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, our colleague, mizzi, and the other rapporteurs on the balanced report they have presented to us. i myself have tabled several amendments, in which i have tried to underline the importance of standards for the functioning of the internal market, for the strengthening of fair competition and, of course, for consumer protection. i also proposed that the european standardisation system be coherent and simple to apply, especially for smes. smes need to have access, they need to be part of the negotiation of standards, and if they don't have the information, they will be scared and have extra bureaucracy and extra costs. i also think that harmonization of standards is of particular importance, even though one of our colleagues said that we should not talk about harmonization. yes, you are. and i insist, commissioner, that these standards should also be discussed in the negotiations of trade agreements with third countries if we do not want the internal market to be at a disadvantage. it is important that all european institutions, member states, stakeholders communicate the state of play of standardisation and, of course, future proposals for standardisation. i support the report and i also support the proposal for the international forum put forward by our rapporteur, because it is very important for the future of the european union and i hope that when implemented it will not create obstacles and costs, especially for smes.
mr president, i will vote for this report because in the european parliament i lead a working group which is focused on international financial reporting standards and i have a fairly clear picture of the importance of standards both for consumer and investor protection and for facilitating trade and investment within the internal market and internationally. i would like to emphasise in particular the attention paid to the quality of standards, based on transparency and dialogue, and i strongly urge the introduction of the practice of impact assessments for any standards that are developed that take effective account of the consequences for the different participants in economic and social life. it is also important to follow standards. those who don't meet the standards are actually enforcing their own standards. i thank the rapporteur and i thank the european commission for their work in this area.
in writing. the european standardisation system is one of the essential elements for the achievement of the single market. the eu urgently needs a single, modern and flexible standardisation system to foster fair competition and innovation globally. the implementation of this single system will generate benefits and predictability for consumers and businesses. i ask the commission to align all the initiatives proposed in recent years so that a european standardisation platform can be drawn up as soon as possible, in which standards are drawn up in a timely and open manner. the commission should also propose concrete measures to accelerate the process of setting multiple ict standards for multiple policies, as it has already done for five areas: 5g technologies, cloud computing technologies, the internet of things, data technologies and cybersecurity. i believe that standards must be developed with the support of industry and public authorities, but also consumers, workers and citizens. smes, consumers and citizens must be involved in this process. last but not least, i believe that standards should impose technical guidelines and requirements that can help implement european legislation and policies.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, after a long journey and years of hard work i am glad that we are finally having this debate about epidemics in europe and i would like to thank all my colleagues who contributed to the resolution. i know it means as much to them as it means to me. the title of the resolution, ‘hiv, tb and hcv epidemics in europe on the rise’, is suggestive because tuberculosis has existed for millennia and remains a major global health problem which feeds on poverty. in 2015 there were almost 30 000 newly diagnosed hiv infections reported within the eu-eea region. around 400 people die too each day in the european region from causes related to viral hepatitis despite the availability of prevention and treatment. this is the painful reality. the cost of hiv, tb and hcv medicines for treatment and for prevention varies from one country to another. as such, all three infections require long-term and sustained programmes, often targeting overlapping population groups. therefore it is necessary to develop a comprehensive eu policy framework addressing hiv, aids, tuberculosis and hepatitis c, as the member states agreed in bratislava in october 2016 and because in 2016, all programmes regarding tb, hiv and hcv ended. i want to draw your attention to the fact that fighting against hiv, tb and hcv epidemics is the responsibility of all the actors involved – the commission, the member states, the non-governmental organisations, social organisations and society in general. in addition, victims and vulnerable populations must be at the centre of all efforts, based on close cooperation and coordination amongst all relevant actors. in order to improve hiv, tb and hcv prevention, detection and treatment adherence, the commission and the member states need to develop specific programmes and financial support to strengthen work with communities and vulnerable people, especially in developing countries. without action and funding we cannot fight against these epidemics.
madam president, today, as my colleagues mentioned, all three infections affect a large percentage of the population in the union. i welcome and support this resolution and i congratulate my colleagues for the initiative. i know that you, commissioner, have already taken steps to fight these epidemics, and i am sure that after this debate you will do even more. fighting against, and addressing the burden of, these diseases require long-term programmes and sustained efforts, action plans to raise awareness, and prevention. the economic burden of these diseases is putting pressure on the member states and the costs significantly increase with the progression of the diseases. the situation for hepatitis is particularly acute in the central and south-eastern eu member states that have some of the highest rates of hcv prevalence in the eu, but where access to screening, diagnosis and treatment is limited. we need to focus not only on access to innovative treatments but also on early detection, better diagnosis and, mainly, prevention and awareness-raising among the populations at risk. exact data on the incidence of hepatitis across the eu does not exist at the moment. some patients discover their infection only at the later stages, while others live with the disease without knowing. we need better surveillance of hepatitis in the eu, and patient organisations think we should aim to replicate the dublin declaration, which had great success in relation to hiv surveillance. in order to minimise the hepatitis disease burden, member states need to implement action plans, increasing the pool of diagnosed people, increasing access to therapy and increasing screening capacity.
madam president, the epidemics of hiv, tuberculosis and viral hepatitis are major threats to public health, both in the european union and globally. all three types of disorders often strike the same vulnerable groups. it is therefore logical to manage them jointly through an integrated strategy. such an approach will deliver better and faster results at lower costs. preventive actions, including educational programmes, are clearly the best options for patients, as well as the most cost-effective solutions. significant progress has been made in the prevention and treatment of these diseases, but not all available treatments have had the desired impact, due to high drug prices and fluctuating stocks. these causes may lead to interruptions of treatment. in the case of tuberculosis, such interruptions may contribute to the development of antimicrobial resistance. an integrated strategy at union level can provide answers to some of the current problems and help to deliver results.
madam president, commissioner, this is a debate about people's lives. i know you're concerned, you've presented us with a few things here. but do you think that's enough? we have talked about education, information and prevention. commissioner, i do not know if you are aware of the specific situation: it is not just about access to treatment for the three diseases because of the prices, but also about the quantity. in my country, we saw that people with hepatitis c didn't have enough treatment, or there wasn't enough treatment for all the patients, and somebody decided, five hundred, for five hundred we have, the rest we don't. that's a death sentence. we need an integrated policy, as you said, but we need to do it by taking into account, not as a colleague said: the countries in the west, the countries in the east, the poorer countries. because of the mobility of european citizens, diseases are transmissible, all three. and then we have to make a policy of the european union, of the internal market, and i think nothing can be more important than allocating some funds to be treatment for all the sick and to detect diseases in the early stages. thank you. thank you.
madam president, the rapid depletion of our natural resources and the region's dependence on imported raw materials is becoming an increasingly pressing problem. the union should strive to use resources sparingly, and the move towards a circular and shared economy is an important step towards this. a large proportion of european consumers would like to know more about the life expectancy of products and would prefer to repair products rather than buy new ones, according to a number of surveys. this is why i would also find useful initiatives such as the creation of a voluntary eu label for durability and environmental design or the provision of security updates for operating systems within a minimum period of time. increasing the life and repairability of products can bring a number of environmental, consumer and economic benefits. i am pleased that the report highlights the new opportunities for businesses that the measures will open up.
in writing. increasing product life is a response to the need to conserve raw materials and limit waste, as consumers have information about product life and the option to repair is more attractive, and manufacturers bring products to market that can be easily repaired and upgraded. also, a longer life cycle for products refers, in a broader context, to the change in the way goods are produced and consumed today, thus developing economic models in which goods are shared or rented and not necessarily owned. however, the development of resource-efficient products should not encourage short product lifetimes or premature disposal of products. in this context, we believe that a balance must be struck between product life cycle extension, waste to resource (secondary raw materials), industrial symbiosis, innovation and waste policy, innovation, consumer demand, environmental protection and economic growth in all phases of the product life cycle.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that we have reached today the final point of this report, which deals with the way in which the european union has responded to very serious human rights violations, such as war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, that is to say, the crimes of atrocity. it is a report which my political group, the european people's party, has proposed for three very clear reasons which are clear from reading the text. first of all, i would mention the fact that the last resolution of our parliament on the international criminal court (icc) was adopted six years ago. i thought it necessary to reiterate our strong support for this court. the context, in a way, requires it, because we have seen in recent months that, despite the fact that the court is becoming an increasingly important actor in international justice, it is not immune to challenge. i am thinking, for example, of the recent resolution of the african union. this is why, in this regrettable context, this report expresses our unquestioning support for the integrity of the rome statute. i also take this opportunity to recall that universal adherence to this statute is the basic condition for the optimal functioning of the court. in this context, one of the ideas put forward by the report is that the commission and the european external action service should assess the actions taken in recent years to encourage third countries to join the icc and identify best practices in this area. it also believes that it is time to review the 2011 action plan and to see how far it has progressed. in this context, i would also like to welcome the european union's 2015 framework for support to justice in transitional situations. the second point i would like to draw attention to in this report is that of prevention. the instruments at our disposal to try war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide are of course essential. prevention is therefore very important. i know that the commission and the european external action service are making real efforts to identify in good time any situation which could escalate into such crimes, but we must succeed in moving beyond identification to action. while we must act jointly with our international partners, i believe it is also necessary to take strong positions in our bilateral relations with the countries concerned and to use all the diplomatic and other instruments at our disposal in the face of possible crimes of this kind. the third pillar of my report focuses on the impunity of non-state actors. i am of course focusing on the case of daesh, because this terrorist organisation has committed genocide in iraq and syria with the aim of eliminating minorities in the region. it is high time that the union made its voice heard on this issue. two options are possible: either prosecution before the icc or the establishment of an international criminal tribunal for iraq and syria. we must begin to think seriously about these two possible courses of action, because waiting is no longer an option. i hear the arguments of the critics, who say that the geopolitical situation will never allow the icc to pass, nor to create a court. the fact that the icc has no jurisdiction in iraq and syria and that russia is a permanent member of the un security council should not stop us. what we need is political courage to condemn daesh and allow the victims to rebuild. we must act now because as i speak, daesh continues to commit crimes against humanity. no state is prepared to support daesh. the obstacles are not insurmountable. the union must play a more prominent role, putting in place a real strategy to fight daesh's impunity at the un and its member states, knowing that two of them, the uk and belgium, are already actively engaged in this battle. the first objective is to enable the whole of society to turn the page, seeing the condemned executioner, but we must not forget that the political, economic and social reconstruction of iraq and syria depends on it. the moral value of the fight against impunity is no longer the only issue here, but also its strategic value. firstly, for the countries that are massively affected by daesh terrorism, but also for us europeans, who have also suffered from terrorism and who want to see this region stabilised in the long term. millions of displaced and persecuted people must be able to return to their homes in safety. that will never be possible if the daesh fighters are still at large. these are the three pillars of this report: prevention, support for the international legal order and firm action when it comes to the atrocities committed before our eyes. i hope that it will be able to contribute to the union's policy in this area and i thank the other political groups for their cooperation. i regret that we did not have an exchange, but it was not accepted. we were only able to obtain a short presentation. i am pleased to see the high representative in this house.
mr president, unfortunately war crimes and crimes against humanity still occur all over the world today, which is why it is encouraging to see that this is unthinkable in the european union and that one of the greatest achievements of european integration is the guarantee of lasting peace among the peoples of europe. this is perhaps an aspect that is not often discussed, and today's europeans have no idea of the devastation that war can cause in the fabric of a society. it is therefore legitimate to expect the eu to hold accountable those responsible for crimes against humanity, to bring these people to justice and to ensure that similar events are avoided in the future. but if we analyze the lessons of history, we can conclude that war crimes cannot be prevented without the use of military force, and that those responsible can be punished, but only after a military intervention to restore order. if we expect the eu to act to prevent crimes against humanity, then we should give it the means, otherwise we should put these expectations in the context of nato.
mr president, mrs mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by our colleague and i support the recommendations made. obviously, the number of companies has increased and we have this statistic of private security companies, we have millions of citizens working here, obviously they're not going to take over the military's duties. european citizens increasingly want security and defence. i think it is a good recommendation to draw up a green paper with the involvement of stakeholders and also to have a common contracting guidance in the area of recruitment, use and management of military contractors. i also believe that it is important to develop an effective european model for the regulation of private security companies. we need to have a european model, not every state have different private security companies. they also argue that there is a need to harmonise the legal differences between member states by means of a directive. thank you. thank you.
in writing. precarious work is an important topic, but the current economic and financial crisis has had a two-fold effect on precarious employment, bringing precarious work into the spotlight on the one hand, and on the other hand, the issue of women in precarious jobs becoming very urgent. women are overrepresented in precarious work, which is not only a major cause of the gender pay gap but also an obstacle to the prospects of advancing to better jobs. the issue of working conditions and precarious employment has been raised in several european parliament resolutions in several contexts. however, the situation of women workers in precarious situations has not been fully resolved. i think one of the major tasks for the future must be to invest and drive forward research in the field of precarious work and the gender dimension. i believe that both the commission and the member states need to develop new strategies on precarious work with clear, concrete guidelines and legislative measures to mainstream gender equality and reduce precarious work for women under the umbrella of strategy 2020.
in writing. in recent years, many traditional fishing communities across the european union have come under increasing pressure from a number of negative factors, such as overfishing and declining fish stocks, climate change, pollution, population decline and, not least, the declining attractiveness of the fishing profession. the fishermen in the danube delta are in this situation. poor living conditions make it difficult for generations to change, with young people preferring to migrate to cities where life is easier. the population is ageing, forced to live in poor living conditions, and fishing revenues are very low. unfortunately, more and more traditional fishing communities in europe can no longer rely on traditional fishing activity alone. in order for them to recover and remain viable, it is necessary for the union to promote their involvement in related activities such as tourism. i therefore ask the commission to actively promote and support investments aimed at diversifying activities in the fisheries sector in terms of marketing and processing of local fishery products, and to stimulate the development of local fish distribution channels.
mr president, i would like to inform the house that during the recent crisis in the romanian government, almost the entire romanian political elite and the mainstream media have been stirring up anti-covian hungarian sentiment, which is extremely dangerous for the stability of romanian democracy and interethnic relations. this may have been intended to delay the resolution of the political crisis, but it also managed to turn romanian public opinion against the 1.3 million-strong indigenous hungarian minority. in addition to the extreme outbursts of opposition party leaders, journalists on various news channels carried out a disinformation campaign, painting a completely false picture of hungarians living in the country, in other cases presenting as unconstitutional legitimate and legitimate demands to which the country committed itself by ratifying international agreements. the rejection of dialogue in the settlement of majority-minority relations never leads to good, as the peoples of europe have seen. we hope that in the case of romania the majority will be willing to sit down at the negotiating table, because in the minority it can always find a partner, and thus reach an agreement between the majority and the minority, a new beginning in romanian-hungarian relations.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tonight i would like to speak about human rights, human rights in a member country of the european union. what it's about: for twenty years, in my country, in romania, there is a major investment by turkish citizens in educational institutions. it's an exemplary investment, and over three thousand children are studying in this institution. unfortunately, in recent years, turkey, through its state institutions, but even through the turkish embassy in romania, has been putting pressure on investors, on teachers of turkish origin who work in these institutions, on their families. it's even gone to arrests, there are set-ups, passport seizures, not renewing passports. basically, the educational institution, which has been functioning for twenty years, is disrupted, but what is more dangerous is that these citizens, who live and have made an investment in a european state, are not protected. my question is: can the commission do anything? is there anything we can do? we have an agreement with turkey, we can't leave our citizens unprotected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for patients suffering from neoplasms, the inclusion in a clinical trial of a new treatment method or an experimental technology can mean the chance of an improvement in the quality of life, a regression of the disease stage or even the difference between life and death. unfortunately, there are also cases where these opportunities are not distributed fairly among the citizens of the european union, although one of the fundamental concerns of the european parliament is the granting of equal rights to all european citizens, regardless of which member state they belong to. in the case of the apollo clinical trial for patients suffering from multiple myeloma, a study supported by the janssen company, no romanian patients have yet been included in this trial. although romania was highly recommended by the study coordinator, professor dimopoulus from the medical university of athens, and although romania meets all the requirements to be included in this trial, from the balkans only greece, turkey and serbia were accepted for this study. when questioned, the janssen representatives explained the refusal on the grounds of administrative problems, which are unacceptable when people's lives are at stake. i therefore call for a reconsideration of this decision and for romania to be re-evaluated for inclusion in the future stages of the apollo study.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure dear colleague, i am also pleased with malta's results. you've highlighted a few. i would like to ask you: do you think that malta, not because it is a small state but because it holds the presidency for six months, can do something if the other european institutions: the commission, parliament, council, do not go in the same direction? because malta has promised, of course, for example, the entry into schengen of the countries bulgaria and romania, only that the netherlands is opposed.
mr president, in total the maltese presidency successfully signed off a record of 20 laws in the so—called coreper 1 policy grouping, and that is despite the fact that malta was in election mode for a month and had no ministers for a week while prime minister joseph muscat formed a new government. i would like in particular to warmly thank the presidency for the excellent cooperation on the report on the european fund for sustainable development, for which i was a co-rapporteur for the committee on development, to promote sustainable investment in africa and in the eu neighbourhood and tackle the root causes of migration, which is hopefully going to be adopted on thursday. the maltese presidency achieved clear and tangible results on the legislative proposals regarding the setting up of the european public prosecutor’s office and the revision of eurojust. last but not least, allow me to thank and congratulate also our colleagues from malta, the meps who were so active during the maltese presidency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the very idea of requiring large multinational companies to report separately for each country in which they generate revenue is welcome. such a measure would constitute a demonstration of the financial sovereignty of the member states. there are, however, two aspects which i am not convinced would be in the interests of protecting the financial interests of the member states: - the first aspect would be the proposed derogations. let us not forget that their purpose is to support companies to have a healthy and beneficial business throughout the single market. once granted, these derogations represent a door that is very likely to be abused, as recent history has shown. how can member states prevent such abuses? are there any provisions for this? - and the second aspect would be the aggregate income reporting limit. eur 750 million is a large enough sum even for multinationals, and most will not be subject to this reporting. i do not therefore agree that after all this work we are doing for a healthy and transparent economic environment we should end up with legislation that applies to only 15% of these entities.
democracy is by no means just financial power. democracy is about solidarity. democracy means equality before the law. democracy means paying your dues the way everybody else pays theirs. we have a lot of secret deals between very large companies and governments right now. these secret agreements have undermined european democracy, undermined european construction and undermined the european single market. if we are to build a strong european union, a stable democracy and a growing and competitive economy, then we must shed light on what is now secret, on what is now very much in the dark. today, or rather tomorrow, when we vote, we take a very big step forward, but there is one regret: that we have not been able to take that threshold from 750 million to 40 million, as was necessary, to have even more transparency.
madam president, i welcome this proposal for a directive on the disclosure of income tax information by certain undertakings. it is indeed an important step towards more transparency and the prevention of aggressive tax planning. mr first vice-president, i regret that in my country, romania, this directive will not be able to be applied because the government installed last week proposed in its government programme to replace income tax with turnover tax. please enter into dialogue with this new government because we are not discussing the arguments why the government wants to make this replacement, but the fact that the replacement of the profit tax with the turnover tax is against the european regulations on taxes on the circulation of goods and services.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal for such a report is certainly welcome, we all want transparency, all citizens want to know whether everyone is paying their taxes. i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs who have worked to improve the commission's proposal. i honestly do not understand why the commission has proposed a threshold of 750 million and i do not understand why the right wing of this parliament is saying in public discourse that we want fairness and ethics. at the same time, when it comes to voting on a report that really brings ethical transparency to the operation of the single market, this is not happening. it's a first step, i'm not satisfied with the ambition with which this report came out and it's not our fault, the s&d, that we wanted, clearly, not just a part, 10-15% of societies to report, but everyone has to report because the threshold is huge and most of those who are now avoiding reporting will come out. that's why i want it to be just a first step and to continue.
i have today approved 100 million euros to the republic of moldova, but this money will go conditional. one: the bill in parliament on changing the electoral system must be withdrawn. the venice commission also said that the mixed electoral system only helps rich parties and rich politicians. secondly, the money has to support and sustain the smaller parties, and the middle parties, as many parties as possible because that is democracy. not to screw plahotniuc and dodon to power in the republic of moldova forever. and finally, if you withdraw this bill from the parliament, if you effectively fight corruption, tax evasion and fraud, if you make an independent judiciary, then yes, the first tranche of the 100 million euros will come to the national bank of moldova.
madam president, i have supported this motion, which includes financial support for moldova. i feel it is extremely important to geopolitically support the countries of the former soviet union, where russia is still trying to maintain its influence, and to support them to have the european union as a partner more than russia itself. i think that's very important. on the other hand, it is necessary to set clear conditions for the use of this money so that this money is not subject to corruption and does not end up only in the pockets of oligarchs, but is actually used for the moldovan people and for the development of moldovan infrastructure. so i think it is good that we finally voted for the motion, it is good that moldova has an association agreement with the european union. it is clear that we should show these countries that the european union is a partner for them and that in the future, if future developments lead to democracy, freedom and economic prosperity, they can expect full membership.
madam president, the taxation of multinational companies must take place in the country in which they operate. otherwise, the fight against tax evasion remains at the level of empty talk. if we don't do that, and if they're not taxed in the country where they operate, we're just taking money to tax havens and maintaining tax havens. secondly, bearer shares are very important. they need to be eliminated from all member states, including my country, romania, because bearer shares are anonymous, they are secret, they are confidential, they leave no trace, whatever happens to them and when they change hands a piece of paper goes from one hand to another then the control of a company changes too. if we want to effectively fight tax evasion, which turns into money laundering, to get the clean money out, which means three trillion euros a year lost, then we have to do these things.
madam president, ignorance always helps the aggressor, not the victim. we know very well which are the two big financial powers that are funding the terrorist groups that have interests in the area and that can stop the aggression, the genocide, the death, but they don't. the international criminal court is now investigating in nine countries, most of them african. syria and iraq should also be included in the list of those countries. let's not forget that beyond politics and words, there are people -- people who are being tortured, who are being raped, children who are being made soldiers, people who are being subjected to forced religious conversions and so on. for them we must make policy and for them we must not forget. again, let's not be ignorant, that we are not ignorant, let's tell the truth, so that we can help the victims, that is, the people.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, our group also welcomes the defence package and its recently adopted measures, which have to negotiate very carefully the fine line between national responsibility and eu common action. as the eu will act as initiator, facilitator and reinforcer of cooperation and collaboration between the member states, the latter will remain in control. but as we begin this journey together, i would like to warn against the possible temptation in the future of imposing certain measures, particularly if considered in line with some other measures representing eu reform in general. to my mind, the highest probability for that to happen is in relation to the single defence market, a major component of the future european defence union. although eliminating the current fragmentation and duplication in the european defence industry – a product of historical evolution – is desirable, politically this should be done better through integration rather than through buying-out, even if accompanied by compensation, as some suggest. moreover, a strict buy-european in defence would be politically justified only in the event that the eu increases its corresponding share in the territorial defence of the member states. otherwise, as long as nato, with the us in the lead, remains the main security provider for the eu nato member states, the appeal to buy european, leaving aside the important questions relating to availability, price and location of production, would be likely to remain minimal, particularly in the east. in general, my feeling is that the eastern-flank member states would favour the development of cooperation between the eu and nato along the current lines, with each organisation doing what they are best at, rather than, as some suggest, attempting to create and consolidate an eu pillar within nato. however, let us remember that working to align the strategic cultures of the member states would alleviate many of these potential barriers.
european defence is perhaps one of the most important projects in which we need to invest in the coming period, but it is one of the most important factors for the political strengthening of the european union if it is carefully managed and really responds to the direct and everyday needs of european citizens. despite some hesitation in this room, most of us can agree on the first steps we need to take: using the union's full potential, civil and military capabilities, using all the instruments at our disposal, creating a european defence fund, primarily for research and development, developing and strengthening permanent structured cooperation pesco, ambitious and open to all member states with european funding. last but not least, and i insist on this, the guarantee and strengthening of cooperation and complementarity, not competition with nato. if we look at our regions, the east, the middle east are regions of great insecurity and instability, and europe has to draw its own conclusions between soft power and hard power. the only chance for the union to be globally relevant is to strengthen its own defence capability.
the union's commitment to defence and security is vital at this time and always has been. at the same time, we must not undermine in any way the development of the defence industry in each member state. on the contrary, we need to increase investment. nato and the european union must work together. we are not enemies. we must invest and work together to defend europe and to defend the world, as we have always done. i welcome the launch of the european defence fund, but before any plans for a common army, there is the increased exchange of information between intelligence agencies. an increased exchange can save lives right now. i know that the intelligence agencies are reluctant to make a full exchange of information with all the services in the member states. it's about trust, and it doesn't exist in all countries, but it's vital that the volume and quality of this exchange of information increase.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i have heard the view on this reflection paper. but do you not think that we need to set objectives for the new budget for financing the european union that will lead first and foremost to social cohesion? because i didn't hear in the commissioner's presentation this.
commissioner, i think that the document you have presented is a very good document. you've put all the questions on the table. now, in the subsequent debates, we have to find answers about both the duration and the own resources and how we cover the losses generated by the uk's departure and what it means to finance the new priority policies, defence, security and the continuation of the current cohesion, agricultural policies. so i think it's a document that creates the basis for the following discussions. however, i believe, at the same time, that the mff must be approved before the 2019 elections. i think people need to know, they need to learn from us what europe means in the future. they need to know what their life means next. and if we stay to just talk about brexit, i think we're going to have a big problem and that's why my request and i think many of our colleagues' is to come up with this proposal as soon as possible. you mentioned that you had to take brexit into account. it's true, you have to take brexit into account because some money is going away, but you have to take it into account in the sense that you have to find your own resources, you have to find flexibility, how to cover this loss. but i don't think that brexit should influence europe's decision for the future. you also mentioned the added value. i think it is true that there must be added value, but we must discuss the definition because the single market also has added value and sometimes creates problems.
in writing. – any government’s values and priorities are reflected less in political statements than in their budgets, which are the clearest expressions of their means and intent. this is why talking about the future of eu finances in a period when old socio-economic challenges are compounded by new ones, such as the impact of brexit on revenues or heightened migration and security concerns, among others, is of such a great importance. the upside about being at such an important turning point is that the current situation might provide a strong impetus for reform. over the years the eu financing system has become increasingly complex, opaque and riddled with exemptions. similarly, on the expenditure side we can also witness duplications and overlaps between instruments which threaten efficiency and strategic coherence. the commission’s reflection paper rightly points to the need to modernise eu finances and streamline our financial instruments to make them more efficient. i hope that based on it we will succeed in building a strong consensus around what we want to achieve together in the future.
rapporteur. – mr president, the debate that we are starting right now is the debate about the mandate that the european parliament will go with to next week’s trialogue with the council and with the commission on the budget of the european union for the year 2018. and why is this important? because in this report, which i drafted and which i brought in front of you, we are providing the first reaction of the parliament: the evaluation of the draft budget of the european commission on the basis of the political priorities of the parliament, which we have adopted with a large majority in the plenary of the parliament in march 2017. before we talk about political priorities and the in-depth evaluation of the draft budget, i would like to say one thing very clearly ahead of the next week’s dialogue and towards the council that we are going to meet next week: the european parliament will not accept automatic cuts to all budgetary lines – to all headings of the budget – as the council has been doing in recent years. the european union’s budget is not made by machines for machines, but it is made by politicians for the people on the basis of political priorities and taking into account the expectations of the people. automatic cuts made by the council to all headings of the budget, not taking into account the political priorities which the council and parliament have given ourselves jointly, is clearly irresponsible. what are the political priorities of the european parliament? we have said since the beginning of the year that we have two main priorities: firstly, growth and jobs; secondly, the safety and security of citizens. how do we want to achieve these? on growth and jobs, we want to use the limited resources which we have in the eu budget to strengthen our economy and to make it more competitive, so we want to strengthen innovation, infrastructure, smes and the erasmus programme, because that is also a support for labour mobility in europe – it supports young people. i want to say very clearly, commissioner oettinger, that the draft budget which you presented at the end of may 2017 generally corresponds with and is in line with the important political priorities which we adopted in march 2017. i think you did the right thing on the first priority – on growth and jobs – to strengthen innovation (the horizon 2020 programme, infrastructure, connecting europe facility, erasmus). we will have to work together to see whether the amounts foreseen for the cosme programme, for smes, also fulfil our objective of creating more employment, more jobs in europe, because smes are where jobs are being created. we need to make sure that the amounts foreseen by you in the cosme programme are also sufficient. you also propose in the draft budget, and we agreed, that the youth employment initiative should be continued: eur 233 million for next year. that is good, but in parallel we also have to make sure that this money is well spent. we owe it to the citizens of europe to make sure that every single euro spent is well spent, and concerns expressed by the court of auditors with regard to the youth employment initiative we will take very seriously. the second priority – security, the safety of citizens – is important because there can be no growth and no jobs without safety. if people do not feel safe in europe, then there is no labour mobility, no investment. to achieve this objective, we wanted to see the agencies of the union which have responsibility for justice and home affairs strengthened – you are proposing this. we will have to work together in the upcoming months, and also with the council, to see to what extent that corresponds to the needs on the ground, or whether we will have to do more. my report on the mandate for the trialogue clearly supports the preparatory action on defence, because in those areas where member states are ready to cooperate at european level on defence research, we have to enable this. we have to stop spending money 28 times in 28 member states at a national level, but spend it once at european level and then share the results amongst all of us. when it comes to neighbourhood policy, you increase the eni east programme; we think that is very good; we have to see whether the amounts allocated for western balkans are sufficient on the ground. lastly, i want to say that we need – and this is a call towards the european commission as a whole – a quick decision on the continuation of the turkey refugee facility. that is not for you to decide, but the commission as a whole needs to provide us with clarity – we need to know how much money will be needed for this important programme.
the 2018 budget, the draft budget covers transport policy well (i am an opinion rapporteur for the committee on transport) and that is also because the budgetary correction has been implemented and there have been some measures that i asked for some time ago in the fc project and now they have been applied, but i would have some comments. i am referring to galileo, which is an extremely important programme for the union's economy in general. almost 10% of the economy relies on satellite systems and for transportation of course it's important. i think the prague agency needs staff - they asked for 23, they approved only 5. it needs to be implemented because, at the end of this year, galileo will be 100% operational and also egnos, which again is an important satellite system, because air transport policy needs very little funding for full coverage of the union territory, to build some ground stations in north africa and in ukraine to do all the coverage. i also hope you find a solution for the interrail program.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great success. i think it is remarkable and positive how broadly the mandate that mr mureşan has worked out for himself is reflected in your speeches. i think it strengthens his authority and your authority. the fact that the commission's draft budget and your assessment, your comments and your amendments have a large majority in this house is also a clear sign of your strength for the trilogue negotiations. i am glad that they will then start on 13 july on the basis of the mandate and i assure you of my support for all the negotiating rounds. the most frequently mentioned issues were migration, social affairs, infrastructure, cohesion, rural areas and research. i would like to make three points. we are monitoring the personnel situation in our services very closely. we will have made the 5% reductions in the establishment plan as a commission this year in other departments next year . and then our services - this applies to parliament, this applies to all the institutions, this applies to the commission, this applies to the agencies - need a few years of stabilisation on the basis of a staff establishment plan and legislation that goes into the next decade. and when agencies have more work, new tasks, extraordinary work, we always have the possibility of fine-tuning to add some posts so that the agencies, alongside the dgs, can also fulfil their tasks. i will be in touch with the spokesman for our agencies in the coming days to hear their expectations. galileo is a project of the decade, of the century. industry has failed. we are late, but we are getting there and creating our own european sovereignty in a technologically outstanding area and are no longer dependent on the import of navigation services from overseas. the establishment of the european museum of history has been criticised. i recently saw a group of visitors there, young people from europe, who were there - they were enthusiastic. i think that the parliamentarium and the house of european history are excellent places to train our european citizens, especially the younger generation. because whether we like it or not, whether you don't like it or i do: there is a european history, there is unfortunately a european war history, there is a european cultural history, a european social history karl marx , there is a european religious history and reformation history in the age of luther, and there is basically also a european history of our changing politics, from the romans, the greeks, before, the puritans, from charles i to napoleon. and to not show this to young people in particular would be an act of treason. i think that with all the pride in home and nation, a nationalist straitjacket would be wrong. and our children, the erasmus generation, would not wear them and would not accept them. that is why i ask you to speak to citizens who come from this house of history. i am sure you will then be convinced that this 50 million was a worthwhile investment in the education of our citizens across the continent in all its diversity.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like firstly to thank my colleagues and commissioner oettinger for this very rich and interesting debate tonight. i would like particularly to thank the shadow rapporteurs, with whom i have been working very well and closely. they were very constructive throughout the work. i see with us still in the chamber bernd kölmel and indrek tarand – my thanks to you, and also to daniele viotti and anneli jäätteenmäki, who were with us earlier. the rapporteurs for the opinions from the various committees were instrumental in putting together a mandate for parliament which reflects the will of the colleagues in this house and that is why i anticipate that we will be able to adopt this with a large majority tomorrow. in addition to this, before concluding, i would like to say that growth and jobs and the security and safety of citizens are our biggest priorities. this is what we agreed with the commission: that these things should receive priority next year. in addition, as was said before, we should not forget the traditional policies of the union – cohesion and agriculture – and we should ensure proper financing. in this regard, the commission did the right thing by proposing an increase in payments under heading 1b to cohesion and structural funds by 25% because we expect and we want to see money flowing into the programmes next year. this is why we are making money available for the real economy, so that ngos, smes and regional and local stakeholders can benefit from the eu budget. i am confident after today’s debate that, together with the commission, with commissioner oettinger, and with the council – starting next week in the trilogue and then in autumn – we will be able to put forward and adopt a meaningful budget, a union budget for 2018 which corresponds to the needs of the year 2018 and which respects and complies with european citizens’ expectations vis-à-vis the union next year.
in writing. the report on the mandate for the 2018 draft budget trilogue is very important from the perspective of the future sustainable growth of quality jobs, especially in smes, research and for young people. this is why i proposed that the commission allocate a reasonable budget to boosting the digital capacity of start-ups, as well as to the internationalisation of european smes. the reindustrialisation of europe can only be achieved through skills development, innovation and research and education adapted to the needs of the economy. it is necessary to allocate an adequate budget to the functioning of the customs union in order to combat fraud and economic crime. i encourage the commission to increase funding under horizon 2020 and to support european businesses that prioritise inclusion and job creation.
mr president, the agreement we are about to sign with cuba must serve two primary objectives: to advance the democratic transition of the country and to improve the economic situation of the cuban citizens. this is not a carte blanche given to the cuban authorities. we must remain vigilant because, despite the apparent openness of the cuban system, the human rights situation remains very worrying and the human rights dialogue with that country has not yet produced any results. i am thinking in particular of journalists and human rights defenders who are suffering persecution, including the 2010 sakharov prize laureate guillermo fariñas. i am also thinking of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience who are being held for exercising their freedom of expression and assembly. the lack of independence of the judiciary and the denial of freedom of movement to the vast majority of cubans are elements on which the european union must be most firm.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that i appreciate the unity of this parliament, because it is true that we have had - you have had - different tones, different accents, but a great determination has already been expressed in the votes of the relevant committees on the need to turn the page and to ensure that our union can be, as i believe it should be, not one of the actors in our work with the island and with latin america as a whole, but the key actor in relations with the entire cuban people. i remember very well the last time we had a debate in this house on cuba, i think it was about a year and a half ago: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. today we are definitely in a different place, today we are definitely facing a change of pace in which the european union represents for the island, for the rest of latin america and the caribbean, but also for the rest of the world, for a certain concept of international relations and relations in the regions of the world, and also for the multilateral system represented by the united nations, the firm point on which one can rely. our path is always this: i am convinced that the european parliament will be able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am convinced that the european parliament will be able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. a few points: there is a political importance to the agreement - as has been mentioned here - which is understood by the regional dynamics, there is an economic importance, given the commitment to investment and trade relations between europe and cuba, there is a social importance, given the opportunity and responsibility that the european union has to accompany the process of modernization of the island. i would like to stress that the position of the european union and of this parliament is, and remains, that of opposition to the embargo and its extraterritorial effects. there is a dimension to democracy and human rights. i would like to emphasize the fact, as some of you have mentioned in this chamber, that it is precisely cuban civil society that supports this agreement, that asks us to implement it in all its parts, precisely because it represents a channel of dialogue, of partnership, of cooperation, and i would invite colleagues who have not done so to at least read the agreement, because it is clear that the part on the dialogue on human rights is an integral and fundamental part of the agreement. and it is thanks to this political commitment that we have begun, that we have begun a frank, difficult but constructive dialogue with cuba, also on human rights. i believe that the most important work, namely the implementation of the agreement in all its parts, will begin today, tomorrow, and i count on the support and support of this parliament, in all its relevant committees, to do this in the best possible way.
in writing. i welcome the conclusion of this agreement with cuba. however, this agreement is not a trade and investment promotion agreement. any further steps in this direction will have to find a solution to settle cuba's old debts to some former socialist countries, including romania, made during the period of operation of the council for reciprocal economic assistance (caer). at the time of its dissolution, romania had a claim on cuba of about 1,3 billion transferable rubles, derived from trade in goods and services between the two countries. it should be noted that romania, in the 6th and 7th decades of the last century, when it wanted to restore normal trade and cooperation relations with western countries, the first condition was that romania recognize its old debts incurred by the romanian state and canceled by the communist regime that came to power after the second world war. the last old debt settlement was with sweden in 2001-2004. any country that recognizes the rule of law cannot simply cancel its public debts. if it has difficulties, there are international mechanisms and practices to regulate them. this is the lesson romania has learned since the socialist regime.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this year i celebrated europe day, 9 may, in new york with the new secretary-general of the united nations, antónio guterres, to stress the natural partnership between the un and the european union, at the precise moment when the un system is coming under growing pressure – if you want to be diplomatic – or under attack, if you want to be clear. we have seen a resurgence of the very old-fashioned idea that national interest is not compatible with a cooperative global order. and we europeans know from experience that this is not the case. our national interest, our european interest is to invest in the un system, in multilateral decision-making and in cooperative global solutions for global problems. the united nations needs our support now more than ever, and mr guterres made it very clear in this chamber just a few months ago. it is a pleasure to see that the european institutions share exactly the same views on global governance and on our support to the un system. your report is perfectly in line with the work we are doing to define the european union’s priorities at the next general assembly and, as it was the case also last year, the report has been itself a source of this inspiration for our work. the foreign affairs council will adopt the eu priorities for the general assembly on 17 july, and the draft text aims to be political and focused, reflecting the new context. the multilateral system of global governance is under attack, as i said, and it is the moment to somehow renew our vows, to commit even more to effective multilateralism. i would like to stress the word ‘effective’ because the best way we have to protect the multilateral system is to make it deliver. over the last few years we collectively have achieved some impressive results through the multilateral system, through the un system: the nuclear deal with iran, the sustainable development goals, the paris agreement on climate change, to mention just a few. the european union is working and will continue to work to guarantee that all these agreements are implemented fully and properly. we have this responsibility. we are exercising this, building strong global partnerships, starting with the paris agreement. with our consensus on development, we are leading the way in the implementation of the sustainable development goals. at the same time, we know that the united nations needs reform. antónio guterres has put forward a very ambitious reform programme. changes to the un culture, structures and operations will be necessary. and we will use all our political and diplomatic capital to help build a coalition in support of un reform, and to support the un secretary general in this respect. we are ready to do so because we know that this is in our own interests. we know that we truly need a strong and effective united nations, and this is why the european union’s voluntary contributions to the un funds and agencies amount to half of their total budget, and we are proud of that. this means that we invest as much in them as the rest of the world combined. we do this, not only because it is right, but also because it is smart. it is smart to invest in the world food programme to prevent a humanitarian crisis or a refugee crisis. it is smart to invest in the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees to help millions of displaced people. it is smart to invest in unicef to help children in a war-torn country to go to school and prevent the radicalisation of future generations. and the list could continue. investing in global governance, sustainable development, climate action – and here again the list could continue – is for us an investment in our own security. hours ago in this chamber we had a debate on european security and defence. i also stressed then that this is part of our work on security. investing in a strong multilateral system and in a strong un system is for us an investment in european security. not only european security, global security. this is the european way to security and it is also the un way to it. this is the contribution we will bring to the next un general assembly. beyond the ad-hoc things we will continue to do, this is the main message we bring. we will focus on conflict-prevention, thereby making a contribution to building peace. we will continue to work to implement the sustainable development goals via development cooperation on human rights – a key pillar of our work – and we will work with mr guterres and with all our partners towards a more effective multilateralism. reading your report i know these are priorities that we share because they correspond to our values and to our interests, which is serving and reforming the un system.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, let me say first of all that i am making this speech 16 hours after arriving here in parliament, in this 'ridiculous parliament', as jean-claude juncker put it. it is part of the very history of this institution. i would also like to congratulate mr kovatchev on the drafting of these recommendations. this traditional exercise, through which parliament gives its position to the council, as (above) and the themes addressed, can improve our action on the international stage and strengthen multilateralism. we need - i believe - stronger commitments at the multilateral level to find a lasting solution to the conflicts in syria, iraq, yemen, libya, ukraine and the frozen conflicts in moldova and georgia. the un bodies obviously play a major role in this respect. they are also the appropriate framework to address the recent tensions in the western balkans region and to take a firm stand against russia's actions that threaten the stability of the reform processes in that area. we must continue to support reform of the un, including the security council. i would like to stress in particular a point which is also contained in the report i drafted on war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity, which we voted on today. the use of the veto by the permanent members of the security council is unacceptable when atrocity crimes are being committed. finally, i would mention that the epp group has asked for a separate vote on paragraph 1 (g) and we will vote against that part which deals with the mandate of the un mission for the organisation of a referendum in western sahara (minurso). this point contains several inaccuracies and we feel that it is not appropriate in this text.
in writing. – the pif directive is vital for the fight against european funds fraud. we have to find the money and return it to the taxpayers. this directive provides for minimum rules concerning the definition of criminal offences and sanctions with regard to combating fraud and other illegal activities, such as money laundering and corruption affecting the union’s financial interests. this directive will also cover vat fraud but only serious cross-borders cases of fraud, where the total damage caused is over eur 10 million. this is a very high threshold considering that vat fraud affects every eu citizen. the carousel of vat fraud is well-known and it steals millions of euros every year. moreover, the directive will not affect the competences of member states to structure and organise their tax administrations as they see fit to ensure the correct determination, assessment and collection of value added tax, as well as the effective application of vat law.
madam president, i would like to welcome the estonian presidency and i am convinced this presidency will be a very positive one. at a time of unprecedented challenges, we have only one possible way to succeed and to further enhance the european project. this is through unity and solidarity when discussing the future of the union, and through more integration, in particular in key fields such as security and defence. any specific initiatives by member states, while possible, must be transparent and open to all others with no shifting criteria or objectives. when it comes to internal and external security and stability, which are closely interlinked, i am confident the new presidency will bring fresh pragmatism and realism to the eastern partnership ahead of the november summit. at a time of challenges, as i said before, during the estonian presidency it is fundamentally important to reassess the situation with regard to the ‘frozen conflicts’ and the way russia is using it in order to destabilise the countries in question.
madam president, mr prime minister, commissioner, i want to say, in short, that i liked what you have presented as a programme and a project. it is clear: everyone must have citizens in their heart and soul. congratulations on being the youngest president of the council! but i want to ask you: are you still proposing that we have no more virtual fences or no more real fences within the european union? are you proposing that we no longer have different spaces? do you propose that romania and bulgaria, which meet the 2012 conditions, be in the schengen area? they are citizens with the same rights and i want you, mr prime minister and commissioner, to propose this as well as the social pillar that we need to have, because without social cohesion we cannot have a better europe. thank you and good luck!
in writing. the european council's conclusions are intended to be optimistic and firm. they want to give the union a boost after brexit and public discontent have called into question the legitimacy of brussels' policies. however, the big issues were sidestepped. after brexit, the union budget will be about 17% smaller. that means either the eu projects will be more modest, or the rich countries will give more money. germany has avoided clarifying this dilemma. money is also the other obstacle to the council's relocation of refugees. they say poland, hungary and the czech republic should be punished for not accepting refugees. the immediate threat is that these countries will no longer receive eu funds. the blackmail is outrageous, because it was not these countries that opened the borders and invited the refugees to europe. did the rich western states in 2004 and 2007 want the union to expand with equal members, or did they simply annex territories to have sources of raw materials, cheap labour and, if necessary, a dumping ground for the undesirable?
i voted for this report because yes, we need to harmonize criminal law. crime, tax evasion is cross-border and it is unfair that we have 28 ways to punish those who impoverish national budgets, impoverish, in the end, the citizens of the european union. for several years, the committees of the european parliament have been looking at this issue, and even then, it took a very long time. i therefore believe that, by voting for this report, both national governments and the commission must take responsibility for monitoring the application of this report and the harmonisation of criminal law. i do not think it is enough for us to approve this, it is a shared responsibility, we must also hold national parliaments and national governments to account, but the commission must be careful to monitor the way it is implemented and to monitor the concrete results, whether or not crime, tax evasion and penalties are being reduced and applied correctly.
the customs union is a concern of ours, of the european union, because right now, as we speak, there is tax evasion precisely because the information system is not working. i have repeatedly asked the commission and the commissioner responsible to have sufficient budgets and not to delay the computerization of customs systems, because we know well that tax evasion is also tax evasion, especially vat, by crossing the border, through customs, the amounts are very large and i believe that by voting for this report, which, i stress, i voted for, by voting for this report we can put pressure on the commission to urgently allocate money for the completion of the computerization of the customs union, the implementation, in fact, of the customs union - a report approved as of 2016, but which is still not working and due to which vat evasion, in particular, is happening. i hope we have a proper application.
i took part in the debate in plenary before voting on this report and i have presented to the house and to the commissioner the reasons why i support and vote for this report. it's absolutely unthinkable that we, as elected people here, should not vote on a matter that touches people's lives. we do not have, as i have said before in this house, left-wing, right-wing, centre-left policies. we have to support people's lives, people's health. we don't have a built-in schedule. we now have a mobility of labor, we have migration from other continents. there is no prevention, there is no information, there is no access to medicines for all citizens. there are countries, like my country, where people with hepatitis c are not that they can't give that large amount of money, too large, there's not the necessary amount and this violates the right to life of the citizens. i hope that it will not remain just a report, i hope that the commissioner, as a specialist, will talk to the national governments and find a way to bring that right to life for every citizen.
madam president, culture and education as soft-power resources in the eu external policy arsenal are still not adequately reflected in our efforts to counter radicalism, resolve conflicts and promote reconciliation and sustainable socio-economic and human development in the world. these tools could and should be among europe’s most effective weapons in the promotion of the ideas of non-violence, equality and respect for human rights. i would note too that not enough effort has been put in by the eu on protecting the cultural rights of national minorities, including in the eastern partnership countries. effective cultural diplomacy has to be a strong force for the promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity and the preservation of minority languages and cultures. the slogan ‘unity in diversity’ should become a universal approach both within and outside the eu.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it was a very difficult year for turkey. a very difficult and dramatic one. the failed coup d’état, the syrian war in the sixth year, and turkey has received more than three million refugees. the conflict in the south east continues. turkey has faced a series of terrorist attacks. it is important to say it, and i understand that the security environment has change in turkey as well as in the surroundings of the european union. therefore, yes, i’m worried about the turkish democracy. i’m extremely worried when it comes to the fundamental freedoms in turkey and the way the mass liquidation of media outlets is the result of the state action. the way in which there are mass arrestation of journalists, academics, judges, elected representatives of the opposition and so on and so forth. today they are endangered by the actions taken by the current leadership of president erdoğan. our report is rightly pointing out all of this. our commitment to the people of turkey remains, nevertheless, strong. the civil society and the opposition in turkey are waiting for us to be further engaged and support them not only in their survival – the physical survival sometimes – but in preserving the remains of the democracy in turkey. today they are continuing their march from ankara to istanbul, a march for justice and democracy. i salute them, all of them. so this is not the time to give up on turkey. it is the time when criticism should be strong when necessary and when a constructive, open and pragmatic dialogue should be maintained. it is the appropriate time to stress that turkey and the european union does have a strategic interest and have to continue their cooperation in very important areas – migration, counterterrorism, syrian war in the middle east region, where turkey can play a positive role. it is more than now to say today to put an end to the escalating populism within the european union, the rhetorics which call to cut the relations with turkey. and the best we can do is to support the customs union.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i understand the problems and i think that the report is very much in line with what you said, but do you think that the request to close the dialogue and the customs union altogether, which you have spoken about, will bring turkish citizens a better situation than they are in now? do you believe this? because in my country, there are turkish citizens who, unfortunately, have their passports taken away and can no longer be protected in a european union country.
for a year now, over 150,000 people have been fired from their jobs in turkey, over 60,000 people have been arrested in turkey, including judges, teachers, human rights activists, lawyers, business people. their businesses are confiscated. turkey is no longer a democratic state, it is an autocratic state, it is a dictatorship where only erdogan makes the rules and turkey is the turkish people who are in prison today. they've been kicked out - the turkish intelligentsia, as they say in turkey, is all in prison. they're victims, they're being tortured. we all have to take action against this. it's not that we don't care about what happens in turkey, we do. i would also like to say that the threat of the one million migrants they would let into europe is false. i hope no one believes that anymore. erdogan will never do that, because he will use them to vote for him, give them citizenship and use them in the fight against the kurds. and the last thing: in january of this year, he set up a special commission of inquiry to look at the complaints filed with the echr. so they're basically blocking the victims' complaints to the echr. over 120 complaints, none of them resolved to date.
the turkish state considers the kurds a potential enemy. it does so despite the fact that in the preceding period there had been credible negotiations between the parties. but as the opportunity to take a tougher stance has opened, under the guise of retaliation for the coup attempt, there is a systematic attack on the kurds living in the country. states often make the mistake of not integrating national minorities living in their territory, but of alienating them, not recognizing their historical contribution to the construction of the country, but of declaring them enemies of the state and using all means to push them to the margins of society. but both sides will end up losing. it requires dialogue, openness and acceptance of each other's point of view. the current turkish-kurdish relationship is far, far from that, and hopefully the parties will not cause irreversible damage to each other before they realise the need for this dialogue.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone who spoke today. listening to the very strong, clear and converging points made in this house today, i think we are all equally concerned that turkey is moving further away from the european union and not closer. that is the reality we have to face. i believe that the best way to strengthen turkey’s democracy is by remaining engaged with it and keeping channels open. we must continue to promote the values on which our union is based. this is all the more evident when it comes to a strategic partner. the ball is now in ankara’s court. it must clearly and tangibly move back towards these values and principles, and we stand ready to support it completely. we are ready to do this on many levels, ranging from high-level political dialogues to protection of human-rights defenders in turkey’s civil society and continued investment in the roots of a future open society, from economic support to education, research and free media. in short, we must continue our principled, firm engagement with turkey and support the positive currents in turkish society, and i expect that we will continue the discussion here in the house to follow up on the events in turkey and to stay in contact and in touch with them. as some speakers today pointed out, we have to keep in mind that there is a huge part of turkish society which is very much interested in the european perspective.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank members for this very rich and very timely exchange of views that demonstrates that we, the parliament and the council, share deep concerns with regard to turkey. as i pointed out earlier, the council is well aware of existing shortcomings, especially in the field of the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. several ideas were floated about how the european parliament can help in this respect, not least by marju lauristin, on the ways of giving voice to those people who have to flee turkey. this work must be continued. at the same time, it is are important to remember that the eu and turkey have many ties. our relations go back a long time. we have had – and are having – close cooperation in many areas, cooperation that has been positive for both parties. we continue to follow developments in turkey very closely. we will continue to bring up our concerns in all our meetings and at all levels with turkey. the eu should remain the anchor for turkey’s political and economic reforms. that is where the continuing expectation of the standards that turkey must fulfil comes in: continuing expectation enshrined in the presidency’s conclusions from the general affairs council last december. the standards are there for all eu candidate and aspirant countries. if anyone says that we should give up on the expectations that those standards are being met, we may wonder whether this sends the right signal. foreign policy is a very complex domain, but even there, some things are relatively easy – leaving the chair open, walking away, pulling the plug, if you will. it is so much more difficult and tiresome to engage patiently, with the aim of transforming your partner. that is what the eu’s foreign policy is doing in its relation with turkey, and that is why continued engagement in the accession process with turkey remains vital.
rapporteur. – mr president, as you know, on 14 september 2016, the commission tabled a proposal for establishing a new european fund for sustainable development (efsd) aimed at mobilising up to eur 44 billion of investment in africa and the eu neighbourhood. the efsd is the first pillar of the external investment plan under which the commission also plans to enhance technical assistance in partner countries (pillar 2) and to work towards improving the investment climate and overall policy environment in those countries (pillar 3). the main assumption is that supporting investment and private-sector involvement through innovative financing can foster sustainable and inclusive economic and social development and address the root causes of the migration crisis and promote the resilience of the partner countries in africa and the eu neighbourhood, including in the least developed countries, with a particular focus on growth, the creation of decent jobs, youth and women, socio-economic sectors and, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises. a final package agreement was approved by coreper last wednesday. the progressive points we managed to include in the efsd text are the following: reference to development effectiveness, resilience, decent job creation, the aim of poverty eradication and articles 21 of the treaty on european union and 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the purpose of the instrument; and the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development as objectives. on compliance in respect of tax standards and transparency, we managed to achieve major progress. we have ensured that counterparts are prohibited from entering into operations with entities incorporated or established in jurisdictions listed under the 11th eu policy on non-cooperative jurisdictions, or identified as high-risk third countries or countries that do not comply with the eu and internationally agreed tax standards on transparency and exchange of information. there is a reference, as well, to the relevant eu policy on non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes and specific reporting by the commission. we now have greater transparency in relation to financial support provided by efsd with an obligation for the commission and counterparts to make information on projects, beneficiaries and expected development benefits publicly available wherever possible. the participation of the european parliament in the strategic board as observers is warranted. we made a reference to the principles of development effectiveness and the conformity of objectives with the eligibility criteria for use of the efsd; fulfilment of the oecd development assistance committee (dac) criteria for the projects funded; and safeguard clauses on human and labour rights, including full observance of the un principles for responsible investment, the un guiding principles on business and human rights, the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, the un-fao principles for responsible investment in agriculture and food systems, and all ilo conventions, as well as international humanitarian law. we insisted on having a particular focus on climate-friendly investments, thus contributing to implementing the paris agreement, and setting a binding minimum target of 28 investments for climate action, renewable energy and resource efficiency. there are more things that i would like to highlight but, because of time constraints and last but not least, i would like warmly to thank the commission negotiating team and the maltese presidency for their good cooperation, enabling us to agree on this new, innovative and important instrument of eu development policy.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for these encouraging words and the support of the european parliament in this file. let me emphasise that the commission will really regularly report to parliament about the implementation of the plan. the commission will take its responsibilities and ensure that the regulation is respected in all its aspects, such as ensuring additionality, poverty alleviation, more and better and decent jobs for young people and for women, policy coherence for development and value for money. let me conclude by underlining that i am very much looking forward to fruitful cooperation under this instrument. now the real work starts with the implementation of the regulation, setting up the secretariat, preparing and defining the investments windows. i am now waiting impatiently to continue the excellent work with the european parliament and to invite parliament’s representatives to the first strategic board meeting. thank you very much for the attention and your cooperation.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to mention and address some issues that have been raised by our colleagues in this chamber. in fact, we have a clause in the report that the guarantee shall not be used to replace government responsibility for providing essential public services. the commission now has the obligation to provide information to parliament prior to the setting up of investment windows. there is an obligation on the commission to publish on its website direct references to the complaints mechanism of the relevant counterparts, and the possibility of directly receiving complaints related to the treatment of grievances by eligible counterparts, as well as the clearly defined geographic scope – africa and the eu neighbourhood – which can be modified only by amending the efsd regulation. we also managed to improve the focus on addressing the root causes of migration by placing it more clearly in the context of fostering sustainable and inclusive economic and social development. the efsd is addressed at, and is going to focus on, growth, the creation of decent jobs, poverty eradication, youth and women, socio-economic sectors, including small and medium-sized enterprises. last but not least, i would like to thank the two other co-rapporteurs and the chairs and coordinators of the three committees. this is the first ep report to have three co-rapporteurs – with three committees involved – and i can tell you that it was a success. i am also looking forward to tomorrow, when the house is going to vote for this very important european union instrument which will also promote our values in africa and in our eastern neighbourhood.
mr president, the term 'sustainability' is used so often in so many contexts that i wonder if it has become a cliché used only to give weight to initiatives. eradicating poverty, reducing inequalities, decent work, quality education, economic growth and respect for the environment - these are hallmarks of sustainable development, but instead of helping to achieve them, many voices use the concept of sustainability simply to justify individual or business interests, and people are beginning to lose faith in this concept. i would, however, like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has done an extraordinary job in defining the environmental challenges and the seriousness of the problem. we are, however, a long way from achieving the ambitious un sustainable development goals. instead of repeating concepts, we should build policies that actually deliver concrete results for people.
the joint debate has been closed. the vote will take place on thursday 6 july 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on a single seat for the european parliament (2017/2757 ((rsp)).
let us hope that our colleagues will have something to say about it.
i would appeal to all colleagues to keep the level of the debate as a debate. we should not get emotional about it, although the matter is emotional. i would like to keep it that way.
also with all respect, i made an appeal that we should keep the debate with a certain level of understanding and not highly emotional. this is not checking what you are going to say – or anybody. anybody is free to say whatever they like and i don’t participate in the debate, in spite of your kind invitation.
to be cynical about it, i can allow all the blue cards, because at 7.30 i have to leave. but i am not cynical and i will try to allow everybody who would like to intervene with a blue card to do that, as long as we keep this debate in reasonable conditions. this is my approach to this. we would not, of course, permit seven blue cards to one speaker or anything like this. i think that what is reasonable can be accepted.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr omarjee on his work. i myself have been to two outermost regions, martinique and the azores, with the regional development commission. here, i was able to see firsthand the difficulties these regions face, whether it's the great distances from the mainland, the climatic conditions, the difficult topography or the economic dependence on a limited number of opportunities. the outermost regions, part of the european area, need strong support to create jobs, develop still fragile economies and ensure adequate protection of the environment, as well as biodiversity and cultural values. implementation of the blue growth strategy, development of research and tourism, but above all exploitation of agricultural potential must become a reality in these areas. better information and communication is needed both for the beneficiaries of the european funds under cohesion policy and not only about the opportunities they offer, but also in conjunction with the strengthening of cooperation between the relevant authorities responsible for their implementation.
the directive on the provisions of the marrakesh treaty will be another step towards meeting the needs of every citizen of the european union. for the blind and visually impaired, it's a huge thing when copyrighted works become freely accessible across borders. this is an area where decisions must be made with due regard to the principle of equity, not commercial interests. that is why i am puzzled by the part of the agreement that provides for the possibility of financial compensation to be paid by organizations and libraries for the visually impaired. given the high costs of producing special publications for the visually impaired, such a surcharge could deprive further blind and visually impaired citizens of access to books, in particular in poor member states. since it will be up to the member states to apply this financial compensation, governments, rather than the eu, will have to be fair and wise in this matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the fate of liu xiaobo, nobel peace prize winner, shows what the brutal repression of dissidents by the chinese authorities represents. liu xiaobo's only crime, arbitrarily sentenced to eleven years in prison, was to call for constitutional reforms and respect for democracy and human rights. by putting liu xiaobo behind bars, china has not just imprisoned one man, it has imprisoned the democratic hope of an entire nation. the chinese authorities waited until her cancer was in terminal stage before granting her conditional release. they don't even have the decency to let him choose to be treated anywhere but in a country that persecutes him. like liu xiaobo, taiwanese human rights activist lee ming-che was arrested for subversion. china's liberty-killing national security laws give the regime absolute power to muzzle ngos and civil society. for liu xiaobo and lee ming-che, we demand their immediate and unconditional release.
it's amazing how many times the question of human rights is overwritten by political and economic necessity. the union could indeed take a more decisive stand on the protection of human rights. and it can do so above all by setting an example in the protection of human rights within the union. only an inclusive, socially sensitive, equitable and sustainable economic system, with a continuously rising standard of living and security, can be attractive to the rest of the world. let us make this a reality within the union, and then it will be easier to convince the chinese that they too must follow this path. it's incredible to think about how the dalai lama is welcomed or not welcomed by some political leaders because they're afraid and terrified of china. where is the human holding of the union? where's the protection of human rights? let's hear it.
madam president, regretfully we do not see any improvement with regard to human rights violations in eritrea. a huge number of eritrean people, including children, are still being arrested for various unjustifiable reasons and held in extremely harsh conditions. dawit isaak’s incarceration has become an international symbol for the struggle for freedom of the press in eritrea. he should be immediately and unconditionally released, together with all prisoners of conscience. in addition, abune antonios should be allowed to return to his position as patriarch. freedom of religion is a fundamental right, and any violence or discrimination on the grounds of religion must be condemned. commissioner, as you know, as chair of working group a of the committee on development, i oppose the granting of money under the national indicative programme for eritrea until these issues are resolved: until the prisoners are released, the patriarch is reinstated and this autocratic dictatorship, which is not acceptable, has come to an end.
madam president, i support everything that has been said by my colleagues about the tragic situation in burundi at the moment. it is also true that we have discussed the situation in burundi several times during this election period and have written several resolutions, and unfortunately they have not had much impact. i would like to hear the commissioner say whether he has any idea of how to make european union diplomacy with burundi more effective so that the president of burundi, who has repeatedly and arbitrarily extended his term of office, can at least hear the voice of the democratic international community and at least respect human rights and do something to prevent a future war in burundi. the situation is really tragic, there is a serious ethnic conflict. it's good that we're having this debate here, but on the other hand, i'm expressing a certain scepticism. if the president is not willing to listen a little bit and engage in a little dialogue with the democratic international community, then i'm afraid the worst can happen. i support the resolution, but i ask the commission to say what more can be done.
madam president, let me start by expressing my concern about the political and security situation in burundi, which is characterised by ongoing violence, killings, sexual violence and human rights abuses. i am confident that burundi will resume cooperation with the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights in order to comply with its international human rights obligations. economic relations can be upgraded only if a sustained political solution is reached. the eu should continue its full financial support for the people of burundi, including humanitarian support provided through direct channels, not through the government. the eu and burundi should therefore keep up a dialogue in order to encourage progress in fulfilling the conditions set by the european union. finally, i would like to welcome the decision of the african union’s peace and security council authorising the deployment of an african prevention and protection mission in burundi to pave the way for a political solution.
member of the commission. – mr president, in continuation of our previous exchanges on this issue, i am pleased to reply to the three questions listed in the text of the major interpellation and to provide you with the latest updates on the import of animal products from brazil. let me start, however, by commenting on the wording of the preamble because it seems to imply that the commission did not react decisively to the issue of the safety of imported meat products. second, it mentions reports emerging over the last few weeks about illicit trading practices. i would like to know exactly which reports you are talking about. i have already provided you with facts and figures in relation to the reinforced checks carried out by our member states which led to findings of non-compliant consignments. however, these consignments were not allowed entry into the eu but were rejected at the expense of the importers. in contrast to what the preamble states, however, there are no reports of findings of rotten meat. if you have such information, it is not known to me, my services or the member states. if you have it, please provide it to me. the so—called reports referred to in the preamble are not new. they refer to what was reported in the brazilian press in march this year in relation to products supplied on the brazilian market, but none of these products ever found their way to europe – not because we were lucky but because we import only from a small number of establishments from a small number of regions. moreover, all imports enter the eu only following strict controls. let me remind you that this is a brazilian meat fraud. because of strict import measures and our reinforced checks, we have ensured that it has not become a crisis in the eu. it is important therefore that we deal only with facts. otherwise this problem will become our problem. our citizens want strong and transparent action and a high level of protection, and that is what i am committed to giving them. i also want to address the claim that i did not provide comprehensive answers when i appeared before you in april. the fact is that time did not permit a comprehensive answer, but i provided full and comprehensive follow-up information in a letter to mr siekierski, who circulated it widely. moreover, i arranged for my services to update you in a closed session of the committee on agriculture and rural development. i also responded to a wide range of written questions on the fraud itself and the wider mercosur trade negotiations. i can only repeat that i am very sensitive to parliament’s concerns and that we are committed to keeping the house abreast of any and all developments. i now want to turn to your specific questions. you will forgive me if i repeat these questions word for word, but i want to ensure that nobody can accuse me of avoiding this issue. first, how can the commission guarantee to european citizens that these dishonest trading practices in the food supply chain will not be allowed to happen again? you will recall that the commission put in place reinforced checks at our borders as an initial response. this aimed to ensure the safety of imports and to allow brazil the time to take the necessary corrective measures. these measures now include 100% physical checks of all animal consignments and 20% microbiological checks. the result of the reinforced checks performed on brazilian meat imports up to the end of june were as follows: first, 5 972 consignments were checked, including 1 566 laboratory examinations. second, of these, 176 consignments were rejected, largely due to the presence of salmonella and a range of other non-compliances, mostly incorrect certification and cold-chain problems. these results show that the checks currently enforced provide a high level of protection against the introduction of serious risks into eu territory. this is an important vindication of the effective controls that the eu maintains on imports. these checks are, of course, carried out by the member states, which have been fully supportive of the measures taken by the commission on behalf of the eu. the agriculture council has twice been updated on the situation and fully supports the insistence of the commission, and indeed all eu institutions, that brazil addresses our concerns urgently. as the commission predicted, our measures have led to a general reduction of imports, with rates varying according to a particular sector. here i would like to remind you that our measures were not meant to be used as a protectionist instrument against legal imports into the eu, but rather to ensure that the safety and health of our consumers are protected. i will now turn to the provisional findings of the extensive audit conducted by the commission from 2 to 12 may. this aimed to address in detail the effectiveness of the brazilian control services. the results give serious cause for concern. the commission has repeatedly stressed to brazil that it cannot view this meat scandal as an isolated problem confined to a small number of establishments. instead, it needs fundamentally to address questions about the credibility of its official control services. the audit report identified a number of systemic failures of control, which raised serious concerns on our part. first, a range of critical deficiencies were identified, in particular in the horse and poultry-meat sectors and meat preparations and products. second, the brazilian authorities failed to act on recommendations to address shortcomings raised in previous audits, despite repeated guarantees that measures had been taken to rectify those failings. a week ago, on 29 june, the brazilian authorities also sent an action plan to us, outlining corrective measures to address all the deficiencies identified in the audit report. this action plan is currently being evaluated by the audit services. in light of the results of the reinforced checks and the damaging findings of the most recent audit, i wrote to the brazilian minister of agriculture, blairo maggi, on 7 june asking for robust and immediate action to be taken. specifically, i requested that the following additional measures be taken immediately by the ministry of agriculture: first, to withdraw the authorisation of all companies to export horsemeat to the eu; second, not to propose any new establishment for approval for export to the eu; third, to perform 100% systemic pre-export microbiological checks on all poultry meat, meat products and preparations to be exported to the eu; fourth, that all consignments of poultry meat and meat products and preparations from brazil shall be accompanied by a health certificate stating that the consignment has been sampled and analysed to check for the presence of salmonella strains and has been found to be compliant with eu legislation; and, fifth, that details of sampling, methods of analysis and results shall be attached to the health certificate accompanying the consignments. in correspondence on 16 june, minister maggi accepted these measures. the commission is currently in the process of clarifying a number of undertakings given by the brazilian authorities, putting in place the necessary measures to ensure their effective implementation and advising brazil of the risk of failure effectively to implement corrective measures. meanwhile the current reinforced checks at the eu border will remain in place and, in any case, a follow—up audit will be conducted by the commission by the end of 2017. the brazilian authorities have been made aware that failure to implement the measures which i described may result in further restrictions, up to the suspension of the import of relevant food products. i will now take your second question: given that the investigation into brazilian companies was carried out over the course of two years, how is it that the european monitoring agencies did not pick up on the illicit practices? the recent meat fraud in brazil was discovered in an investigation of the federal police using criminal procedures. these include wiretapping all telephone conversations. you will appreciate that such procedures are not open to our audit services, or indeed any audit services. our audit reports have, nonetheless, been very effective in highlighting weaknesses in the brazilian control systems. in fact they are the reference internationally for assessing the performance of control services. it is also important to keep in mind that the findings to date relate to a relatively small number of establishments. only four were approved for export. that is, of course, four establishments too many, which is why we immediately banned them exporting to the eu. there is no evidence that the fraudulent practices which appeared in the brazilian press extended to export to the eu. let us keep in mind that we have very strict controls which are not only reliant on brazil. through our member states, we carry out our own controls at the external borders where all consignments are subject to rigorous checks. moreover, it is wrong to assume that brazil has free access to our market. only a small number of establishments from selected regions are approved. there are strict controls on what can be imported. for example, all beef must be deboned and maturated. there are very strict controls on the movements of animals which are considered eligible for export to the eu. our insistence on hormone-free products must also be respected. our audit services have been very effective in ensuring that weaknesses are identified and followed up. in fact over time there has been a big fall in their beef exports to the eu due to the difficulties in meeting our requirements. a further example of the rigour of our requirements is that no pigmeat imports are permitted from brazil, owing to previous findings by our audit services, which brazil had not addressed to our satisfaction. i am nonetheless disappointed that we continue to find problems in brazil which they have consistent difficulties in addressing. it is not an accident that they do not have the access to our markets which they would like. it is instead a consequence of their failure over time to address our concerns. your third question is: given that european producers are held to ever higher sanitary standards, what demands will be made of brazilian producers in the ongoing agreement negotiations between the eu and mercosur? now moving to a wider dimension, i am aware that you have concerns about the impact of these events on negotiations with the mercosur countries on a possible free trade agreement. i want to repeat what i have said before here and to be clear on one very important aspect of any such further agreement: it will not undermine our high safety requirements. our high food safety standards are not up for negotiation. no. all imports from mercosur countries, present or future, will always have to adhere to, and abide by, the high quality of safety standards established by our european union legislation and implemented through our credible certification and control system. the agreement would, however, reinforce cooperation and establish improved information and notification systems in the sanitary and phytosanitary field. it would also put in place a privileged communication channel with the four countries concerned, ensuring that our reaction capacity would be stronger. to conclude, let me reiterate that a future eu-mercosur agreement would not lower our high regulatory requirements and food-safety standards for agricultural imports, including from mercosur countries. you mentioned the united states’ ban. we have to keep in mind that the united states’ findings, which led to their ban, relate to a very small sample size. their ban applies only to fresh beef, of which they import only minimal quantities. moreover, they import from different establishments to the eu. we are not therefore necessarily comparing like with like. i do not consider that we need to be led by the us on issues of food safety. after all, the us has approved the use of hormones in beef production, ractopamine in pigmeat production and chlorination in poultry-meat production. these are practices we would never allow in europe. so please be careful before advocating that we should follow the united states’ example on food safety issues. i am nonetheless carefully following the us actions. if they have legitimate concerns which would have consequences for the eu, we obviously need to take them into account.
on behalf of the epp group. key markets around the world have closed their doors to brazilian beef in recent months. following the scandal of fraudulent marketing networks of products unfit for consumption, china, the eu and the united states suspended their imports. in the context of the assurances given to the european commission by the brazilian authorities last week regarding the intensification of controls in meat factories, i ask the commission to exercise caution and rigour. the safety of the european consumer must prevail over any consideration. compliance with food safety standards must also be at the heart of the ongoing negotiations between the european union and the mercosur states for a free trade agreement. it is a situation which requires us to put european production first by means of more effective measures to support livestock farmers.
madam president, one third of european women have been physically abused at least once in their adult lives. however, these statistics do not necessarily reflect reality, since they are based on reports from victims only. the real numbers could be much higher, given the victims' fear and dependence on the abuser. when i think of the women in my family, i can't turn my head away. violence against women is not a private matter, as it is a serious and systematic violation of women's fundamental human rights and dignity. it's a crime that must be punished. equality between citizens is one of the fundamental values of the union. the accession of the union to the istanbul convention is therefore welcome, all the more so as, although all member states have signed the convention, only 14 have ratified it. violence against women in the union costs society billions of euros every year. the emphasis should not only be on combating violence, but also on prevention, awareness and information. media and advertising play a key role in this. these platforms should play an active role in the implementation of information and education campaigns in cooperation with civil society organisations, as this is a prerequisite for achieving gender equality.
in writing. in order to increase the effectiveness and coherence of policies to combat and prevent violence against women and gender-based violence in europe, the ratification of the istanbul convention by the european union is necessary. this will ensure better implementation of union law, eu programmes and funds approved for this purpose, and contribute to the achievement of objectives such as gender equality, combating anti-semitism, public health and economic growth. in order to put the proposed objectives into practice, i support the appointment of a european union coordinator as its representative in the committee of the parties to the council of europe, as well as the establishment of a gender violence observatory, following the current model of the european institute for gender equality. it is also necessary to promote gender budgeting as a tool to combat and prevent gender-based violence, and to provide resources and funding for access to justice for victims.
i want to say at the outset that i appreciate the work of the two committees (i am also a member of the tran committee), the rapporteur's position, the prudence with which she has completed this report. i think that no one in the european parliament, or outside it, is aware that environmental protection is one of the most important issues. but we have to figure out how to do it. of course, every sector of activity is responsible for emissions, so the aviation sector cannot be exempted. but i think that until we find a way to link our bargaining power with non-european countries, because this is a global issue, not a european one, we cannot set ourselves up to take measures that will put the aviation sector in the european union in difficulty again. and that is why i believe that the report, as it is drafted and i hope it is voted on, will bring about important changes, but at the pace at which we can do the global negotiation, otherwise we will be in an inappropriate situation ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the land-use sector has a profound effect on greenhouse gas emissions and can play a huge role in removing them from the atmosphere. accounting for the impact of this sector is therefore a key element in climate policy. without this component, we cannot implement the paris agreement. we can't even monitor his progress. this legislation will contribute to our international commitments and, in addition, show and quantify the real value of forests, wetlands and other natural resources. the proposed legislation should encourage member states to protect their carbon sinks, but flexibility is also important. it should be allowed for emissions from one sector to be offset by carbon removals from other sectors or traded between member states, as long as the cumulative effect of these flexibilities is to reduce total emissions.
ladies and gentlemen, this week we are discussing, among other very important topics, the future of the erasmus+ programme and the new skills agenda for europe. it is a good framework for reaffirming in the european parliament our support for education that offers young people real opportunities for a successful professional life. i believe, along with many other meps and many citizens, that in the global economy, europe's only competitive advantage will come as a result of a focus on and massive investment in education in all its forms. successful careers depend in many cases on training, apprenticeship and traineeship programmes through which young europeans can learn, train and increase their chances of employment or training. i would like to stress, however, that not all young people have the necessary resources and that for many of them, an internship, a paid internship, is the only chance to support themselves. i want us all to think in this week's debates about how our vote and the positions we take can make a decisive difference in the lives of many young europeans who, with just a little support and encouragement, can have a chance to reach their true potential.
madam president, every national minority has the right to education in its mother tongue, from kindergarten to university, in any european country, within the union or in its neighbourhood. this fundamental right is also enjoyed by the hungarian and romanian communities in ukraine. the new ukrainian education law is anti-minority and contrary to european values. as a member of the european parliament for the hungarian democratic union of romania, i consider the decision of the ukrainian parliament to be wrong and express my solidarity with the transcarpathian hungarian and ukrainian romanian communities. solidarity is natural, especially when the romanian hungarians are also threatened with deprivation of rights. hungarians had to take to the streets in marosvásárhely just a few days before school started in order to keep a hungarian school open. i call on the ukrainian president not to pass the education law, but to refer it back to parliament for renegotiation.
madam president, the school year began today in romania, but in a city with a half-romanian and half-hungarian population, it was preceded by more chaos than usual. the reason for this is that the fate of the local hungarian school founded by the roman catholic church is uncertain, the institution established in the church's own building has practically ceased due to the series of harassments by various state authorities, and hundreds of children could only start the school year under the wings of another school. i talked about it here months ago, but please imagine a situation where, because of an administrative error a few years ago, the dreaded anti-corruption prosecutors are investigating on the spot, summoning parents to be questioned about why they sent their children to catholic schools. yes, this is happening in the union, not somewhere in the third world. if we are talking about the rule of law, we must be aware that this is what the parents in the marosvásárhely feel about the rule of law in the european union today.
i am pleased that the alarm signals i have sounded in this house about the tragic situation of one of the oldest and most experienced vaccine production institutes in europe, the ioan cantacuzino institute in bucharest, have been promptly and positively responded to by the current government of romania. the prime minister of romania, mr mihai tudose, announced the preparation of the legislative documents necessary for the transfer of the ioan cantacuzino institute from the ministry of health to the ministry of defence, based on the idea that the cantacuzino institute is part of the strategic network on which europe's prompt response to a widespread epidemic or a biological weapon attack depends. according to the prime minister of romania, there is an intention for the ioan cantacuzino institute to become the main european regional centre for the production of vaccines, so necessary for the immunization programs of european citizens. i would go further and ask for your support in finding a formula acceptable to the european commission, whereby the funding of the staff and operation of the ioan cantacuzino institute, as well as similar institutions in other member states, is to be made from the european budget.
the committee on transport and tourism. launched a year ago in this house, wifi4eu is a project that demonstrates that the european union is having a visible, direct and positive impact on the lives of citizens. in line with the vision set out in the digital single market strategy, access to the internet and, by implication, to information, is becoming a key condition for ensuring europe's long-term competitiveness. the digitisation of every economic sector is the future of europe, ensuring the development of every community, including from a social point of view, if we are to refer only to the impact on education or the functioning of local public administration. from the perspective of transport and tourism, the integration of digital services becomes vital to meet the connectivity objectives and improve the quality of european services, as i also stressed in the opinion of the committee on transport. the installation of free wireless hotspots will help to better contextualize mobility patterns, and the data collected can be used to evaluate public transport policies. public authorities will be able to create safer routes and reduce traffic discomfort by optimising and making transport routes more flexible. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. how can we maximise the impact of wifi4eu and ensure that it is not just a success on paper? first, by ensuring that there is a genuine geographical equity in the financial support. european funds must be used where they are really needed and where they will really make a difference to people's lives. secondly, the european commission must launch an information campaign on the availability of this support and the benefits it brings. last but not least, financial support is extremely important. the wifi4eu project shall be compatible with other regional and national programmes, with possible synergies to be identified.
the s&d group has also expressed its support for the commission's proposal to establish a european digital single market (dsm) for the period 2014-2020. digital investment and innovation will ensure the growth of the digital economy and provide opportunities for the development of new industrial sectors. i congratulate our fellow rapporteur, carlos zorrinho, on the work he has done and on the agreement he has reached on this regulation, which will ensure access to high-quality wireless connectivity throughout the union. the wifi4eu initiative will have a strong impact on some 6 000-8 000 municipalities in all member states for which €120 million will be allocated to finance equipment for free wi-fi services. i stress that the available budget should be allocated to projects in a geographically balanced manner across member states, including by allowing for more active participation of applicants from member states where the use of grants or other forms of financial support has been comparatively low. the wifi4eu initiative contributes to bridging the digital divide and complies with european union rules on data protection, net neutrality, supports state-of-the-art equipment and ensures cybersecurity. importantly, the commercial use of data obtained through the initiative is prohibited. improving access to high and very high speed broadband internet and therefore to online services, especially in rural and remote areas, will increase the quality of life by facilitating access to services, e.g. e-health, e-government, and could promote the development of local small and medium-sized enterprises. i also think that the joint declaration by the three institutions that if the increase in the amount for the financial package for the implementation of the connecting europe facility in the telecommunications sector from eur 25 million to eur 50 million cannot be fully secured, the commission could propose reallocations to facilitate the full financing of the eur 120 million, is an important commitment.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, once again, mr zorrinho, congratulations on your work. i would also like to thank the members of the european parliament for their opinions, suggestions and comments. i would like to conclude by making a distinction between two aspects. on the one hand, the commission considers that the text adopted is a good balance and provides more clarity on several important issues that you have raised. yes, there is an information campaign planned. data protection is important and is expected. we have also not neglected the importance of small towns and the elderly. as regards the budget, the commission welcomes the joint declaration of the three institutions to maintain an overall budget for the initiative of eur 120 million. i also count on parliament to ensure that the impact of this initiative is significant and that this initiative has its scope and added value. i would also like to clarify a point that has been raised by several members. we have added value in the european union's action. i would remind you that the identification will be unique for the whole of the european union. to answer mrs toia's question, a logo is also planned. then what about the next steps? once this new legislation comes into force, we will amend the work programme of the connecting europe facility and, immediately afterwards, open the portal for registrations and providers of wi-fi services. we are also entering into a dialogue with the member states, which have an important role to play in implementing this initiative to make it a success. we're working hard to make the whole application process extremely simple, which is something you also raised. the absence of administrative burdens will avoid the need for intermediaries or consultants, and we know how important this is for small municipalities. municipalities will register directly via an online portal. i am aware that the initiative has created a lot of expectations and we hope to be able to allocate the first 1,000 vouchers to municipalities across europe at the beginning of 2018. i have not missed the aspects which you considered important: continuous evaluation, social dimension, rural areas, links with the objectives of the digital single market, code, spectrum, connectivity. i would like to thank mr buzek, mrs werner and mrs niebler. i simply suggest that we continue to work together on this.
in writing. investing in very high capacity networks and providing internet access to all citizens throughout the european union, including in rural and remote areas, is essential to stimulate innovation, social inclusion and increased competitiveness. by providing internet access to tourists, local small and medium-sized enterprises, especially tourism-oriented enterprises, will be able to develop and become more attractive to citizens everywhere. also in agriculture, access to high-speed networks and information and communication technology services would be a very important step towards the goal of setting up young farmers. the total number of farmers in the eu has fallen rapidly over the last decade, from 14.5 million in 2005 to 10.7 million in 2013. in the same period, the number of young farmers fell from 3.3 million to 2.3 million. if we want agriculture to be sustainable across generations, it is vital that young farmers benefit from effective support in the form of both eu financial support and the provision of the internet. let us remember that internet connectivity is not a luxury, but a pressing necessity of the modern world, without which we will not make the progress we want.
in writing. as i said before, i wholeheartedly support the idea that any increase in internet connectivity is a step forward in the direction of economic development. we are in a position to provide a free service to european citizens. a service that means, first and foremost, technology. whether we like it or not, the smartphone, tablet, or laptop have become indispensable accessories for modern man. the programme we voted for today leads to a democratisation of access to the information sphere and thereby to an increase in social inclusion. but there are also critical aspects. the implementation of this programme under the union's centralised umbrella means that this inclusion takes place in a virtual world rather than in the physical reality of the community in which a particular user lives. this could lead to a deep rift. some areas will have free internet access while remaining without access to drinking water or sanitation. i would therefore like to warn against the danger that for many citizens in less developed areas this programme will become a source of alienation rather than progress. this program alone does not solve the problems of disadvantaged communities. at the same time, investment in the classical economy is needed.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's initiative to allocate €120 million to some 6 000 municipalities to improve internet access. this initiative will need to be fully exploited, in particular by municipalities in member states with a lower level of economic development. the internet and, more broadly, the digital economy, is a sure path to increased productivity and greater convergence with economically developed member states.
in writing. the wifi4eu initiative, announced by president juncker in september 2016, is part of the telecoms package and aims to promote free wi-fi connectivity for citizens and visitors in public spaces such as parks, squares, public buildings, libraries, health centres and museums across the eu through a common free wi-fi portal: wifi4eu. we obviously agree that every european citizen should have access to wi-fi, regardless of where they live or how much they earn, but wifi4eu must comply with eu data protection rules as well as with net neutrality and cybersecurity. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of this regulation. moreover, local wireless connectivity, free of charge and without discriminatory conditions, could contribute to reducing the digital divide, in particular in communities lagging behind in digital literacy, including in rural areas and remote locations, and to increasing the quality of life by facilitating access to electronic services (e-health and e-government). the importance of this initiative also derives from improving digital skills and promoting the development of local small and medium-sized enterprises.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, unfortunately in 2015, more than half of the eu-28's gross domestic energy consumption came from imported sources. this regulation is of particular importance as it lays down provisions aimed at ensuring security of gas supply by ensuring the proper and smooth functioning of the internal market in natural gas, by allowing for exceptional measures to be taken when the market is no longer in a position to supply the necessary quantities of gas, including a solidarity measure of last resort. the responsibilities between natural gas undertakings, member states and the union are clearly defined, both in terms of preventive action and in terms of response to actual supply disruptions. this regulation also establishes transparent mechanisms, in a spirit of solidarity, for coordinating emergency planning and response at national, regional and union level. parliament has succeeded in improving the text and we congratulate rapporteur mr buzek and the shadow rapporteurs so that it better reflects the principle of solidarity while protecting fair compensation for natural gas companies. this is an important step towards strengthening the european union's energy security and, in the event of a serious crisis in the supply of natural gas, eu countries will have to help their neighbours, while not neglecting their protected consumers, to avoid european citizens running out of heating in cold weather. we have to emphasise that solidarity only applies to citizens and to services such as hospitals, schools and so on. the principle of transparency is a key element, as member states will have to notify new contracts or amendments immediately after their conclusion. in order to ensure transparency, reliability, existing contracts should also be notified. i stress: and existing contracts. the obligation to notify should also cover all commercial agreements relevant to the execution of the gas supply contract, including relevant agreements that may relate to infrastructure, storage and any other aspect important for the security of gas supply.
mr president, i thank mr buzek, the rapporteur, and the colleagues who have worked and negotiated this important report with the council. i fully support the measures envisaged to ensure the security of gas supply - both those concerning the efforts that each member state has to make and the solidarity needed between member states when a country is faced with a natural gas crisis. i think it is an important step towards what we all want, that single european energy market. but i would like to stress that we cannot talk about real security of natural gas supply in europe as long as we do not have pipelines linking the caspian sea basin, the black sea basin, where exploration is currently under way, and where important natural gas deposits have been discovered in southern and central europe. unfortunately, i believe that the european union's efforts in this direction are still insufficient.
mr president, taking into account that the european union is highly dependent on gas imports, mainly from russia, i strongly believe that the proposal gives much—needed impetus to our efforts to secure gas supply and ensure a well—interconnected and well—functioning internal gas market. while efforts have been made, uncertainty over gas supply and regional disparities continue to raise big concerns. therefore, i welcome the introduction of the solidarity principle and i strongly believe that the latter paves the way towards the achievement of a genuine energy union by making one of its cornerstones, which is energy security for all, more effective. with this objective in mind, i consider that it is absolutely necessary that member states engage in stronger regional cooperation at the level above both preventive action and reaction to disruptions of supply. indeed, safeguarding the security of gas supply demands more cooperation, more coordination and more transparency in the common energy union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we should no longer question the importance of guaranteeing gas supplies and energy security. after all, these things are about people's lives. i congratulate the team and committees that worked under the rapporteur's coordination and i think we should, commissioner, pay attention now to how the commission works with the national authorities, because i believe in coordination of work and i believe very much in the proposals in the report on energy efficiency. here we have to correlate with other reports and other measures. energy efficiency is extremely important for energy saving, investment in technologies also measure that can help efficiency. the report also contains other proposals which i support, such as diversification of energy sources, but all of them must be read in the same key: solidarity, solidarity read as it says in the contract. without cooperation and solidarity, no single state can cope alone, and we need to have solutions for emergencies. commissioner, it is vital that you coordinate this.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank again our rapporteur mr buzek for his very constructive approach to this proposal. following fruitful cooperation between the three institutions, we have reached an ambitious but balanced agreement. with this regulation we have completed the energy security package tabled by the commission in february 2016. the agreement on this politically so important dossier was reached in only 14 months – a real record, mr buzek, and thank you for your support. with this, we will significantly improve security of gas supply not only in the european union, but also beyond in close cooperation with energy community countries. it demonstrates that when there is political commitment and we share the same objectives, we are able to take rapid action that addresses the needs of european citizens and businesses. let us maintain this positive spirit in the negotiations on the ‘clean energy for all europeans’ package that is now on the table of this parliament and the council. statement of the commission as regards article 15 of the proposal for a revised gas security of supply regulation the commission welcomes the co-cooperation mechanisms set out in article 15 of the proposed regulation as submitted to coreper as an important tool for ensuring consistency of preventive action and emergency plans with energy community contracting parties. the commission stresses the importance of effectively ensuring that no measures are put in place by energy community contracting parties that may negatively affect the security of supply situation in the eu and its member state and vice versa. in this respect, the commission will, without prejudice to its initial commission proposal of 16 february 2016, consider proposing to the council in due course a recommendation under art. 218 tfeu for negotiations on amendments of the energy community treaty with a view to establishing an appropriate legal framework and mechanisms to allow applicability of selected provisions of the regulation and other relevant parts of the acquis communautaire in the field of energy between the eu and its member states on the one hand, and contracting parties of the energy community on the other, so as to ensure effective implementation of a reinforced security of gas supply framework.
in writing. – security of gas supply is a crucial factor in the european union’s sovereignty. unstable international cooperation encourages the eu to secure the energy system and protect consumers in case of the disruption of foreign gas supply. this security can be achieved only by maximising local production, completing the interconnection of member states’ gas grids, developing liquefied natural gas hubs and finalising the gas corridors. furthermore, considering that a considerable part of the imported gas is transformed into electricity, the union should continue to boost the diversification of electricity resources and, perhaps, take into consideration more and more the massive wind resources available in the european sea basins that, through the rapid progress of technology, can fill the gap in the electricity market.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i totally agree with what you said, because food security is vital. but i would like to ask you from another point of view: in recent years there have been very serious mistakes in the guilt of those who have put a dangerous food product on the market. do you think the current regulations clearly encompass what happens to those who mislead? and in my country, this happened with a food product that is eu certified. it turned out it wasn't him, but some entrepreneurs' business was destroyed.
blue-card question. – i am sorry we are asking our colleague so many questions but her speech was a very good one. colleague, do you accept that the worst thing about this situation is the fact that the competent authorities knew about this but unfortunately it took months and months before consumers were alerted, when 22 countries were affected? do you not think the worst thing is that we should have to fight against this kind of a situation?
in writing. the fipronil egg contamination scandal and its wide-ranging impact raise two categories of issues, apart from a mandatory improvement of the internal food safety alert system. the first priority is the clear need to investigate the use of insecticides and plant protection products in general in the food production sector. how can we be sure that such substances have not been used illegally in the eu to produce other essential foods such as meat, milk and dairy products, etc.? controls on the use of these substances or measures such as tightening procurement rules can prevent future contamination of food with dangerous chemicals, making a major contribution to protecting the health of citizens. the other priority is the need to rebuild the confidence of eu consumers in food producers. a number of cases of fraud have affected a major sector of the food industry; we are talking about the economic costs borne by innocent producers, as well as the confusion and suspicion among consumers, who no longer know which products are safe. the commission has a responsibility to help european food producers and farmers rebuild their relationship of trust with citizens. these two priorities are, of course, connected.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner oettinger, märt kivine and estonian presidency colleagues, welcome here today to the european parliament. we are now entering a decisive phase in the procedure to agree on an eu budget for 2018. we have spent the first half of the year agreeing on political priorities, and we have done important work together in agreeing that growth, jobs and the safety and the security of citizens have to be the political priorities of the budget of the union for next year. these are the right priorities because this is what the citizens of europe expect the union to deliver and these are exactly the areas where the union adds value. now, we need to deliver on the promises which we made together in the first half of the year. we are simply not credible in saying that we want a more innovative european union and at the same time cutting eur 491 million from innovation and research programmes. we are not credible in saying that we want infrastructure in europe to be better: energy, digital, highways, railways and at the same time we cut eur 111 million from the connecting europe facility and eur 99 million from large infrastructure projects. the total cuts proposed by the council are eur 1.7 billion. let me be very clear: what the council is proposing here is a budget for a weaker european union because less investments today means a weaker european economy in the future. the commissioner has outlined this with examples from the digital area in a very convincing manner. the european commission has understood in the very first half of the year that growth, jobs, safety and security have to be our priorities, and they have put together a very meaningful budget. this is why i also support allocating most of the resources that we have for research, for smes, for infrastructure projects, standing by the side of farmers, particularly young farmers, and fulfiling our commitments when it comes to the cohesion and structural funds. the low absorption rates in the first year of this financial programing period for the cohesion and structural funds does not mean that the absorption rate will stay low in the years to come. on the contrary, it means that now projects will be at full speed and the money is needed over the next years. there is no worse signal that the union can give to smes, to citizens and to ngos than not being able to pay its bills. this is why i am calling on all sides to come together in the upcoming weeks to put forward a meaningful budget for the union in 2018 – a budget based on investments, supporting research, innovation, smes and important projects – to put money in the good projects that apply for eu funds, to stand by the side of our immediate neighbourhood, be it south, be it east, be it the western balkans, improve safety and security, and make use of the agencies of the union which we have and which are there to improve the safety and security of the citizens of europe.
madam president, it is highly important to have a consistent and coherent implementation of the eu common position, which is essential for the eu’s credibility as a values-based global actor. given the impact of arms exports on human security, arms control should be strict, transparent, effective and accepted by all parties. therefore, the member states should respect the legally-binding nature of the common position and comply with the minimum requirements arising therein. i believe that the implementation of the common position requires more strict application of the common criteria and improved transparency of the eu arms export control system, especially in light of the most recent figures, according to which exports from the eu28 amounted to 26-27% of the global total in 2012-2016. last but not least, in order to strengthen compliance with reporting obligations, i support the development of a tough sanctioning mechanism for member states which fail to comply with the common position.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i wish to say to the vice—president/high representative ms mogherini that we are witnessing persistent provocations by north korea and also an increase in the tone and the statements of the various world actors. what the dprk is doing is playing with fire or, i should say, with nuclear fire, and we need to do everything we can to stop an escalation that could bring devastating consequences not only to the korean peninsula, but also to the wider region and to the entire world. the latest tests launched by north korea, against provocations, against south korea, against japan, against the united states, are a clear and blatant violation of all un security council resolutions. it is time for all forces both within and outside the un security council to come together. the s&d group welcomes your efforts, ms mogherini, to have a concentrated approach but regrets the reluctance of the un security council to adopt yesterday heavier sanctions, including a ban on oil imports. the eu must make use of its diplomacy, as you rightly mention, to add additional economic pressure and autonomous sanctions against the regime in north korea. at the same time, it is necessary to have a firm and convincing stance by regional actors like china and russia, which are aware of the consequences they would face in the event of nuclear escalation, which obviously knows no borders. we have the positive example of the cooperation on the iranian nuclear deal, which was reached in different circumstances but which shows that by acting seriously and all together, denuclearisation of the korean peninsula can become a reality. finally, let me add that today the priority is to solve the crisis but immediately after that it will be to analyse how they managed in two years to advance technologically in that way.
madam president, i would first of all like to welcome the adoption of new sanctions by the un security council, as i believe it is essential to send a strong message to the north korean regime. one of the important measures is the ban on the employment of north korean posted workers. however, i regret the opposition of china and russia to tougher sanctions, such as a total ban on oil exports to the country and the freezing of the assets of the north korean leader and his close associates. after six nuclear tests and dozens of missile launches, it is striking to see that kim jong-un is very confident and does not fear the consequences of his actions. this assurance comes from its powerful ally china, which is doing everything to keep the north korean economy afloat and thus ensure the survival of the regime. we can see here the double game of china, which in words condemns what kim jong-un is doing, while in fact it is in some way encouraging him. the conflict on the korean peninsula will be resolved - i believe - through a mixture of sanctions and negotiations. sanctions will not bring north korea to the negotiating table until an agreement is reached between china and the other members of the security council. only a united front against kim jong-un will make a difference.
madam president, as many colleagues have underlined, with its latest decision, the un security council has voted with unanimity for the strongest sanctions ever imposed on north korea. i will focus on three elements, which i believe are of even higher relevance than the sanctions themselves. firstly, the decision and unanimity reached in new york is even more important than the content of the decision. it is in itself a win for diplomatic multilateral efforts and international unity in the face of the north korean threat. secondly, the latest efforts showed that the military option is not and should not be on the table and that there is international commitment to find a peaceful collective solution. thirdly, we are facing not a regional but a global threat – an immediate threat not only for asia, but also for europe – and this is why i am happy that the eu and the high representative is fully engaged in this process.
madam president, in 2017 alone, this year, north korea has conducted more nuclear tests than in the last 20 years. the latest nuclear test is a message to all people, to the western world, to europe, to america, but especially to china. china should no longer keep its hands tied when it comes to implementing sanctions against north korea, against russia and against other dictatorships. if pyongyang gets nuclear weapons, which is the path it's showing it's on, then other dictatorships in the world will follow, and the whole world will be destroyed.
madam president, we have said so many times about north korea that we must restrain the dictator and not allow any unchecked provocative actions. the problem is that it seems that not only the union is powerless, but also the united states. a direct conflict would have unforeseen consequences, primarily for the population living in the region, and a conventional war would cause devastation unprecedented in the world for decades. meanwhile, there is no indication that the system will have any internal opposition, no resistance expected from the already suffering and fearful north korean people. of course, tightening economic sanctions would only increase the suffering of the people, but it would be worth deciding whether the world is assisting the survival of a truly inhumane system or trying to achieve change through a combination of sanctions and negotiations. the north korean leadership has a rational mindset, and every power is primarily concerned with its own survival, so if it sees it threatened, it may be willing to change. the question is what price the public will have to pay. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – he has got the answer. he wants to speak. but i think it is more that: he has some other problems, but i do not want to enter into the details.
blue-card question. – in fact i attended a visit in sicily, together with my colleague pogliese from italy, and i noticed the terrible situation that the italian authorities, and also frontex and other european union institutions, are facing, considering the number of migrants crossing the mediterranean. we absolutely have to show solidarity with all these countries. at the same time i am going to ask my colleague if he knows that a new route for unregulated illegal migration was opened over the black sea from turkey to bulgaria and romania, and we are facing a terrible situation as well. (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as is often the case with immigration, this was a debate which was partly based on ill-founded arguments. it would be good to see in the house of european democracy a more careful use of the information which i am sure members of this parliament have about what is real and what is not. we do a lot of work against fake news, whereas maybe sometimes a little intellectual honesty between us or even just getting better informed is enough. i also believe that many of you have recognized that finally, and for the first time, a new road has been taken, a road which is still very difficult, still very fragile, which must be consolidated, but which is beginning to bear fruit in terms of protecting people, saving lives, cooperating in equal partnership with our african partners, with international organizations, dismantling criminal networks along the entire route of trafficking, protecting and controlling borders, but also and above all, i would say, working on the causes that determine the movement of tens of millions of people around the world, which do not concern europe alone, they concern a phenomenon which many of you have rightly called epochal, historical and which will not disappear. it's not about stopping flows, it's about managing flows. i think mr. 't veld used the right word, "manage". it's about managing, and we can manage, a complex phenomenon. we can do this if we start from the consideration that there is no single measure that solves the problem in 24 hours but it is about putting in place a series of measures on all fronts - the external, the internal, the economic, the security, the social, the rights, the governance, the climate, and i could continue - a series of measures that over time build responses and solutions, where we make one thing clear to each other: i hope that this will reflect the unity and consistency that we are achieving in our external action on the management of migration flows. i am personally very pleased with the degree of unity and coherence that the european institutions, the member states, and i would also say the national governments and parliaments, the local authorities - here are some of the projects we are doing as europeans - have shown on the external side of managing migration flows: the partnership with africa, the hard and arduous work with libya, the work with international organizations like unhcr and iom, and so on. we have a problem of internal consistency and i think it's only fair not to deny it. i believe that this parliament, in addition to being a european parliament, is also made up of women and men who have political roles within political parties in the member states. perhaps then we should also reflect on how to ensure the political coherence of the union's work. because it is true that there is still a lot of work to be done on consistency, on solidarity and on not turning a blind eye to the fact that this is a phenomenon that will remain with us europeans for a long time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what we can do instead is act together, sharing responsibility, which also means sharing the welcome, and as europeans we can manage it: we are the richest continent in the world, we are the continent that guarantees more rights than anywhere else in the world, we are the continent that is recognized today, unlike a few years ago, as having the capacity and the leadership capacity on how partnerships can be built to jointly manage a complex problem. i believe that if we recognise this need, if we recognise the reality of the facts, we will be better equipped to respond to the problems of our own citizens. denying them is usually not a good starting point for trying to solve them. i would like to conclude by quoting the words of pope francis. gianni pittella recalled this: i think he used some very important words. i'm always struck by his ability to hold the heart together, but also the rationality, the common sense, the ability to call to reason each of us as individuals, as citizens, as part of a community. and pope francis, in thanking also and above all italy and greece, which are the member states of the european union that have taken on a huge task, initially alone, and which i believe today deserve recognition for the weight they have carried in the name and on behalf of the whole of europe, and to which we must offer support and solidarity and whose proposals we must listen, because they know the phenomenon better than many, who perhaps refuse to put european proposals or measures into practice, and then when they are asked: "but exactly how many illegal immigrants from côte d'ivoire are in your country?" turns out there's one, maybe two. so we also listen to the proposals that come from countries that are on the front line, because they are the ones who know the reality of the phenomenon and how we can manage it together in a sustainable way. so, along with the word "management", i think there's the word "sustainability". i said that pope francis thanked italy and greece and i think that we as europeans have a duty to do so because they kept their hearts open and i think this is an appeal to each of us as servants of the institutions: i don't think that's being nice. i believe that if politics and institutions lose their sense of humanity, they can hardly serve their citizens. there is a human element that drives political action, otherwise politics loses its meaning, and i believe that this is the common basis for our working together; as europeans we certainly have our common roots in humanism. but the pope has indicated a kind of action plan, which i think reflects very nicely a lot of the things that we have tried, we have started to put into practice in these last months and years. first of all: the european union is a major player in the development of the european union. this concerns the internal policies of the union and not only the union, because it is not only the european union that has to deal with this phenomenon: we think of the united states, which has chosen a different path at this moment. let's take canada, for example. we are talking about a country in latin america or asia, which is facing, with different policies and different responses, similar phenomena. first, i said, welcome and integration, which are linked together, and i think that pope francis, with great realism, recognizes that the only limit to welcome is the capacity of each country to integrate and to provide a future. secondly: the work to improve living conditions in the camps in libya and the sahel. i want to be very clear here: this is exactly what the european union, together with the un agencies, is trying to do. are we doing that? very partially. not enough. but we're starting to see some results. someone said earlier that unhcr and iom are not present in libya. that 's not true . are present in libya, thanks to eu funding and work being done with the libyan authorities, to give unhcr and iom access to the camps, to check sanitary conditions, to offer protection, to distribute food and water: it's a minimum, a minimum of first response. is that enough? i'm not sure. is that what we want? i'm not sure. but we are the only ones, the only ones, who are facing the problem of how to help the migrants who are currently trapped in libya in the hands of traffickers. and i can tell you that our african partners, whose nationalities are present in these camps in libya, are thanking us. and these are people who in some cases we are helping to return voluntarily, with assisted returns, to their home countries. because it's also about saving lives. so, i ask you again: is our action enough? no, but i believe that a responsible european union is a european union which sees the problem, which tackles it and which tries to solve it, even when the solution is not one hundred per cent satisfactory. we could improve, sure, but at least we're taking on a problem. and it's not that a year ago, two years ago, seven years ago, this problem didn't exist. italian people know that. the stories that were heard in lampedusa five years ago were the same. thirdly, work for the growth of the african continent: economic growth, social growth, democratic growth. and i think that is really the great turning point in our joint action. the partnership with africa: not just with governments, but with people. the european union is committed to developing the potential of africa's youth, of africa's women, a partnership that looks not only at economic investment, including private investment, but also at participation, democracy, respect for human rights. i believe that our task is to continue to do what we have finally - too late perhaps, but for the first time - undertaken: to increase the level of coherence and shared responsibility within our union; show pride in what we have finally achieved, including saving lives, but also be very clear about the way to be european, because there can be no part-time europeanism; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european union has a lot to improve, a lot to change - president juncker will say a lot of that tomorrow - but i think we need this basic element of common solidarity. a family helps each other when one of its members is in the most difficult situation; solidarity can be inverted in another case, another issue, another policy. that's what being together is all about. i believe that this is also the basis for an effective and efficient response to internal management in relation to reception and integration. as you know, the commission is also working on the dublin regulation: commissioner avramopoulos has spoken to you about this many times and it is not from these benches that the problem can be solved.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, turkish society is going through difficult years, and so is our relationship with the country’s authorities. on many crucial issues we disagree with our turkish interlocutors, from freedom of speech to the rule of law. academics, journalists, civil society and critical voices have come under increasing pressure. the detention in july of another 10 human rights defenders, including eu nationals, was the latest in a long series of extremely worrying episodes. we cannot, we do not, and we will continue not to ignore these current negative developments. in our dialogue we insist that turkey respect the highest democratic standards it has committed to as a candidate country to the european union and as a member of the council of europe. this was the spirit of the meeting between presidents tusk, juncker and erdoğan on 25 may, and this is the spirit of the high representative’s regular meetings with her counterpart, foreign minister mevlüt çavuşoğlu. the same applies to my encounters with the same minister çavuşoğlu, but also minister çelik, the european minister of turkey, and other members of the government. turkey is also our neighbour and a key player in a strategic region for the european union. we are partners – difficult partners sometimes – but we work together on many different files that are fundamental both for the european union and for turkey, from counter-terrorism to migration to syria, to name but a few. our dialogue with turkey on all these files is essential for all european citizens, for all turkish citizens and for our entire region. our dialogue is open, frank, critical, sometimes constructive, sometimes very difficult. most recently at our high-level political dialogue on 25 july in brussels, the high representative and i made it clear to our turkish counterparts that there is an urgent need for the current trend to be reversed if we want our reciprocal engagement to be sustainable. this goes for the domestic situation, with continued dismissals, suspensions and arrests, but equally so for bilateral relations between turkey and some eu member states. a month ago we agreed with our turkish counterparts that we should all talk less about each other, and more to each other. everyone could benefit from a more constructive attitude. at the same time, we must not lose sight of the long-term and, perhaps even more importantly, of the many people in turkey who are also concerned, as we are, with the current trends. let me end by noting that in our dialogue with turkish opposition members, human rights defenders and journalists, the majority of them urge us to continue our dialogue with turkey. let us keep this in mind as we reflect on the next steps in our relationship. meine damen und herren! ich möchte aber auch die gelegenheit nutzen, frau präsidentin – nachdem ich verstanden habe, dass sie während der debatte abgewechselt werden –, ihnen alles gute zu wünschen für ihre neuen herausforderungen und mich ganz persönlich für die gute zusammenarbeit in den letzten jahren bedanken. vielen herzlichen dank.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, this is the third time in less than a year that we have discussed our relationship with turkey and the third time that most of us agree that, in view of the political developments in turkey, the negotiations on turkey's accession to the union should be temporarily suspended. when i say 'political developments', i am referring, of course, to the constitutional referendum and above all to the many violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms that have affected important sections of the population, from journalists to military personnel, and of course to school and university teachers. the copenhagen criteria are clear and we must respect them. but if the position is fixed at parliament's level, we expect the council to do the same. we can no longer afford to discuss turkey and our present relationship with that country through several voices that are contradictory. in order to be credible, we must coordinate and not leave it to ankara to take what it wants. i think it is time to decide which way to go and to take responsibility for that choice. this is all the more important as turkey is now a very important partner for the union and all its member states, and this is true in a multitude of areas. migration and trade are just two visible aspects of this partnership. it is therefore necessary to know where this relationship is going and what its coordinates will be in the short and medium term. in other words, if we take the prospect of accession off the negotiating table, what else do we put on the table? how do we see the future of the relationship between brussels and ankara? i think that this issue should not be taken lightly, because it is essential for the continuity of this relationship, but also for the image and credibility of the european union in turkey. if we are reacting to today's turkey, we must act with tomorrow's turkey in mind. this is why, as rapporteur for the afet opinion on the 2018 budget, i supported the redistribution of part of the funding for turkey to turkish civil society, which defends freedom of expression.
mr president, commissioner, we have today in turkey a political system which considers disagreement and criticism to be an absolute evil. more than 160 turkish journalists and european citizens were arrested. thousands of university professors, members of the academy, are in prison, some of them without even knowing their charges and without ever having been tried. the european parliament cannot of course accept this. but president erdogan's rhetoric to some member states is good for domestic consumption. therefore, we better refrain from playing by the rules defined by erdogan. consequently, i fear that the prospect of a break in dialogue with turkey may give it new arguments to consolidate the authoritarian state that it started even before the failed coup. my fellow citizens, i believe we must avoid hasty, emotional or electoral decisions. i invite you to reflect and maintain a balanced and responsible position on the future of the strategic relations between the european union and turkey. in this respect, i welcome the position adopted by the majority of foreign ministers at the last cagre meeting, which took place in tallinn last week. let us not forget, dear friends: turkey has been and remains a strategic partner of the eu and its member states, now and in the future. turkey is a large and important country with a very active, complex and largely pro-european civil society. the enlargement process has allowed us to positively influence the process of this country over several decades. it would be a tragic, fatal strategic error to suspend the bridges now.
in writing. – the turkish government has arrested more than 50 000 people in purges following the coup attempt in july 2016. it has imprisoned masses of journalists, wiped out freedom of speech and dismantled democratic structures and political checks and balances in the country. and now it uses european states to track down opponents and dissidents living abroad, jails european journalists and interferes in european elections. all the progress made over decades by turkey towards democratisation – a process that the eu largely contributed to – is being reversed with extreme speed. we cannot delude ourselves anymore about the prospect of erdogan’s turkey being a potential member of the eu and continue to pay millions of euro in accession aid for a country that has basically descended into autocracy. keeping the status quo is not the right political signal the eu should send about turkey, nor about itself.
mr president, we are talking about a country where the regime lost the popular support and turned the political fight into a fight against its people. a rich country whose citizens are hungry (a meal per day being a miracle), where basic medicines do not exist and which rejects international assistance. a country which contributed to the broadening of the meaning of a coup d’état when its supreme court decided it did not like the legally-elected parliament and announced it would legislate instead. it had to step back due to international pressure, but it opened the way for the president maduro to illegally call for the election of the constituent assembly, whose task is to change the political landscape of the country. with political opponents in prison and this illegitimate body ruling, the dictatorship is in place. the time has come for the eu to impose sanctions on those responsible.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr javi lópez, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's political relations with latin america (2017/2027 (ini)) (a80268/20017).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his report and his good cooperation with the political groups in this house. i personally have always been a vocal advocate in favour of stronger relations between the eu and latin america, at all levels and on multiple subject. there are many things that we have in common, and the report clearly mentions them as it stresses the need for closer cooperation. i want to emphasise the friendly and supportive approach that the eu has in its relations with latin america and mention, for example, the financial, humanitarian and expert assistance offered during the fires in chile recently; the financial and expert support to the peace process in colombia; the assistance to democratic evolution via eu election observation missions and their follow-up activities. but this also implies that we are concerned when something goes very wrong. we say what we think and we act because we care about those who are victims of unjust actions taken by their government. this is not interference in internal affairs. this is partnership. we as the eu and european citizens accepted very harsh criticism on our failures on the refugee crisis and never said that this was interference. this is the case when he criticised nicaragua or venezuela. we cannot simply disregard what happens in a country such as venezuela and accept the maduro regime calling the un secretary-general a liar. quite the opposite; we must support his demand for a thorough investigation undertaken by the international criminal court. we must put in place sanctions against those who are responsible for the disastrous situation in venezuela.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 september 2017. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes. )
the next item is the summary of the report by mr cristian dan preda on eu-india political relations (2017/2025(ini)) (a80242/2017).
the rapporteur. mr president, many terms have been used to sum up the relationship between the european union and india: natural, strategic, strong or values-based. it is all of these things, but above all it is a relationship with enormous potential, provided that both parties make their partnership a high priority on their agendas. the report i have written and negotiated over the past few months sends a clear message a few weeks before the 14th eu-india summit. the european parliament fully supports a genuine strategic partnership with india, as the full potential of this relationship has not been developed. trade between the union and india must not be limited to trade, although trade obviously plays an important role and negotiations on a free trade agreement must be a priority for both sides. the challenges facing the two partners at international level are similar, whether they are regional tensions or global issues such as terrorism, disrespect for international law or climate change. for the afet committee, the future of the eu-india relationship includes several work projects, including old projects that need to be revived. first of all, we must work more closely together at global level to promote effective and regulated multilateralism, reform of the united nations and coordinate our respective positions more often in international fora. we must then increase our exchanges in the fight against terrorism, in line with the declaration made at the last eu-india summit. there is a lot of scope for cooperation in preventing and combating radicalisation. we can also make a joint case at the united nations, for example, for the adoption of the general convention on international terrorism. on the other hand, we can contribute together to conflict reduction and prosperity in asia, both by supporting regional integration processes and by encouraging democratic processes in the countries of the region. india and the european union can also try to play a positive role in the establishment of a peace and reconciliation process in afghanistan by strengthening their political coordination on military security or development aid issues. similarly, india's and the union's development actions, whether in india's asian neighbourhood or in africa, would benefit from greater coordination to ensure that they are complementary. we could also strengthen our exchanges in favour of universal disarmament, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear security. objectives to which both the union and india have committed themselves. working together to ensure strict enforcement of un sanctions against north korea is an objective to be achieved in this context. i would like to draw attention more generally to the importance of establishing mechanisms for consultation on foreign policy matters between india and the european union, including on issues on which we have had different perspectives in the past. the commission has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of a number of initiatives, including the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised bodies to combat terrorism. so these are some of the possible areas of work, but there are obviously many others, ranging from human rights to maritime safety to people-to-people exchanges. so there are many bricks with which we could build the relationship between india and the european union in the months and years to come, and i hope that the summit on 6 october will open up and develop some of these bricks.
the point has been closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 september 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the summary of the report by mr petras auštrevičius on corruption and human rights in third countries (2017/2028(ini)) (a80246/2017).
thank you very much. of course if you misuse power, you are afraid afterwards, or you should be.
we should not be discouraged. we should fight on. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 september 2017. written statements (rule 162)
madam president, i most welcome the emphasis on the idea of europe as a community of values, placed by mr juncker, and the need to ensure freedom, equality and the rule of law all over the eu so that there are no longer second-class citizens in our integration project. still, european citizens belonging to national autochthonous or language minorities can be treated very differently depending on where they live. only last week in romania, the hungarian minority language catholic high school of târgu mureș ceased to exist because of the systematic harassment by various authorities where hundreds of minority-language speaking children were insecure until the last moment about whether they would be able to attend their school again. what do the parents of these children who are interrogated by the romanian anti-corruption agency for enrolling their children in the school feel about the rule of law that the eu is supposed to guarantee them? the eu still has a long way to go to ensure its values and prevent discriminative practices. more than 60 million citizens expect acknowledgement of their existence by the eu institutions.
madam president, congratulations to president juncker for his strong messages on the state of the union today. for the first time in years, our citizens show growing faith in the eu and its direction. their confidence is justifying proof that the eu remains where they put their hopes and where they want to live and prosper. for all this, we are obliged to keep our word and deliver on what we have promised. some will say we need more ambition; i say we need stability, consolidation and proper implementation of eu policies. we need to defend our values to make sure our citizens can fully benefit from their rights and freedoms, and that the competitiveness of our companies is both defended and supported. yet, the engine of our internal market is not fairness, but competition. it has to be a real one. you cannot send people home, telling them to go and compete in their own country while we protect our national markets. the internal market is not the sum of national markets. the state of the union should also be about how we can offer more europe for everyone.
president juncker, i want to thank you today for the courage, vision and wisdom of your speech, but above all for your strength in opposing those who favoured division and double standards in the multi-speed europe project. i share with you, on behalf of the romanian delegation, on behalf of my group and on behalf of my country, the ideas and vision and we assure you of our full support. if we look at your speech, i agree: in foreign policy, security, defence, europe can only be a serious, important player if we are united, if we speak with one voice and if there is complete trust between all members. if we look at cohesion policy, it is fundamental to putting the principle of solidarity and reducing disparities into practice, and therefore i ask and ask you to pay attention to the continuation of this fundamental instrument of the union. union and solidarity mean, yes, that there are no double standards in cases of enhanced cooperation, that schengen cannot be refused when the conditions are created, that the cooperation and verification mechanism cannot continue if it is no longer necessary and that the quality of food, as you have said, is the same for all europeans.
in writing. i like the sixth scenario that you presented as being personal, but i'm worried because no one can do anything alone. i thought you were presenting a scenario for the team, for the commission. i liked what you said not only because you spoke the name of my country, recognizing its rights, but also because you emphasized the need for fair trade agreements and industry, things that i have consistently supported. but mr president, you have spoken very little about social cohesion, even though you have spoken about the importance of the east-west lungs. i would like you to review the way the strategic investment fund is used so that it does not have adverse effects on social cohesion. and you must also, mr president, find the appropriate instruments for implementing the measures and their effects. but use the same measuring instruments, mr president, do not change the benchmark for measuring effects. what is needed is a united europe, but with equal treatment for all citizens.
in writing. the eu's priorities for the year ahead must be accompanied by the adoption of concrete commission initiatives on trade, investment screening, cybersecurity. the eu needs to strengthen its plans to achieve an energy union, a security union, a capital markets union, a banking union and a digital single market. trade will play a decisive role as it will create jobs and new opportunities for european businesses. the industry needs a new strategy because european industries need to stay in europe and need to be globally competitive in innovation, digitisation and decarbonisation. a strong legislative framework is needed to strengthen the digital market. great progress has been made in the digital field - the elimination of roaming charges, public wifi access, the agreement to use the 700 mhz radio band to support 5g and smart vehicles. however, there is still room for improvement in online commerce, copyright rules, online platform security and cybersecurity standards. in addition to a single market and a monetary union, europe needs a security union. the area of freedom, security and justice will never be complete without romania and bulgaria joining schengen.
in writing. – president juncker, you said: “the rule of law is not optional in the european union. it is a must.” i agree, and i ask: is it not high time that the eu solves the copenhagen dilemma? the eu membership criteria laid down in 1993 in copenhagen require that any candidate country implements the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. members of national minorities should be able to maintain their distinctive culture and practices, including their language, without suffering any discrimination. why the same requirements are not enforced in all member states by an eu act? the states that joined the eu more recently implemented major changes in their legislation involving the treatment of ethnic and religious minorities. why not have an eu standard in the matter of the protection of national minorities? president juncker, in the quest to solve the copenhagen dilemma your commission will be able to build on the minority safe pack european citizens initiative, once the 1 million signatures will be presented next march. “in a union of equals, there can be no second class citizens” you say. let’s make this true for the members of national minorities, too!
mr president, i too have supported this report. i am convinced that, given the doctrine of protecting human rights and democracy in third countries, it is good to extend this to the question of fighting corruption. i find this report important in several ways, to mention at least what i consider most important to talk about where european money goes in countries where corruption is rife. does it not happen that the money ends up in the pockets of those who rule such states and who may be very active in organizing corruption themselves? in the future, we should be much more careful about where european money goes, and try to support anti-corruption initiatives, civil society in such states, in third countries where corruption is a big problem, and let's say the protection of human rights.
and i voted against this report for one reason only: the amendment which deals with the allegations of corruption concerning azerbaijan. i am the parliament's rapporteur for azerbaijan and, as such, but also as a politician, i find it difficult to accept that we can make a report motivated only by press statements. i think corruption should be the talk of the judiciary, not the press. if these claims were to be found to be in error, is there any possibility of correcting a reality that you have just sanctioned by vote? i think that's not fair and, in my view, this kind of approach is one that targets double standards and has nothing but a political motivation and probably foreign powers behind these claims.
romania was marked by the tragedy of the colectiv club, a fire in which 64 people died and we had, and we have 147 injured. it happened in 2015, the socialist government was in power, which is still in power today. and he is responsible. in romania, even today, the fire safety standard p118 is 18 years old and is still stuck at the ministry of development. in the union, the toxicity of smoke and construction products is not tested, even though smoke is the biggest killer of fires. 41% of fire victims are killed by gas, smoke and toxic emissions. existing requirements for the testing and labelling of construction products for fire do not require the indication of smoke toxicity. the urgent distribution of large burns between european hospitals with special wards should be regulated within the civil protection mechanism. all of this must be part of a european strategy, because 5,000 fires kill people every day in europe. (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr. president, i think we all understand that this is a difficult report, but i cannot agree with balancing costs with human rights. we have tens of millions of people who have the same right as us, the ones who maybe had a better chance from god. i appeal to reason. we can improve that report tomorrow. obviously we have to think about the internal market, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (they come from this sector), but we can ignore, for example, the 30 million blind people who have written to me, the association in my country, that they are excluded by this report if we vote for it as it is. thank you, colleagues, regardless of your political colour, because life has no political colour, because we may all end up powerless and unable to access certain services. i would like us to leave tomorrow with a peace of mind and vote on the amendments that have come from different groups, but which improve the report in terms of accessibility for those people who are permanently or temporarily disabled, pregnant women, the elderly, as it was said here. thank you and may god grant that tomorrow we have an improved report.
mr president, there are around 80 million disabled persons in the eu who cannot access, or have difficulty in accessing, products and services the use of which most of us take for granted. i am confident that by adopting the european accessibility act, we can considerably improve in the long term not only their lives, but also the lives of elderly or pregnant women or even parents with babies. the eu treaties have long aimed to promote equal treatment for every citizen. in this sense, barrier—free accessibility should be a vital goal for all member states, which are sadly at greatly differing levels of providing accessibility for their citizens. the directive is not only essential from the perspective of adding substance to charter rights such as the rights to human dignity, to work or study. there is also a strong business case for extending markets for products and services to a largely untapped part of the population, and to harnessing technological progress and innovation to support people with disabilities in their vital everyday tasks.
mr president, at european level, we find that there are still disparities between the legislative and administrative measures adopted by the member states concerning the accessibility of certain products and services for people with disabilities, disparities which create obstacles to their free movement and distort effective competition in the internal market. according to statistics, there are 80 million european citizens with disabilities, 30 million of them are visually impaired, and all these legislative disparities do not take into account their needs and, in particular, those of disabled older people. for all these european citizens, there is a need for adequate access to information through adapted audio and video media services, access to public transport, related services and infrastructure, and to self-service terminals and the services provided by them. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the market for electronic books and related services.
mr president, i begin by reiterating that there are more than 80 million disabled persons in the european union and, taking into consideration demographic ageing, this number is likely to increase to more than 125 million by 2020. we need to ensure that the legislative initiative is capable of delivering meaningful benefits that match the needs of people with disabilities and brings about the much-needed improvements in order to pave the way towards a more accessible and inclusive europe. indeed, we have to forge a more ambitious policy that strengthens the rights of people with disabilities and dissipates the barriers resulting from divergent requirements for accessibility within the internal market. in particular, i strongly believe that, in order to create a robust accessibility act, all companies, regardless of size, should obey the accessibility requirements and that the scope of the proposal should also include people with temporary functional limitations.
member of the commission. – mr president, in these turbulent times, it is more important than ever that public debate and political decisions are based on reliable facts, not ‘fake news’. the european statistical programme ensures just that, by providing trusted statistics on europe through eurostat, the statistical authority of the union. the evidence provided by the european statistical programme underpins all of the political priorities of the union. as priorities change and in order to address new challenges, the statistical programme now needs to be adapted to remain relevant and to provide the information needed to take informed decisions for the future of europe. the commission welcomes the compromise achieved between the three institutions on the extension of the current european statistical programme to 2020. the compromise addresses the growing demand for relevant and timely statistics to support the key union priorities. in particular, the extension of the programme contains measures for the production of new and better statistics in support of a more social europe. for example, it will provide better data on income and inequalities, as well as equal opportunities on the labour market. furthermore, the integration of migrants into the labour market will be better monitored. the programme will also deliver more detailed and faster statistics for other important policy areas such as the energy union and will support the monitoring of the sustainable development goals at union level. the commission considers this extension of the programme to 2020 to be a most important step forward in further strengthening the european statistical system’s capacity to deliver more timely data and to better respond to policy needs. the foreseen enhanced budgetary support is urgently needed for these developments. i am grateful that parliament has been a most active and cooperative ally by providing political guidance and support in this regard. the commission looks forward to pursuing this positive development for european statistics in the coming years and in particular in relation to the evolution of eu governance in many policy domains and in preparing the future multiannual financial framework (mff). i wish to conclude by thanking the rapporteur mr roberto gualtieri – thank you so much – and the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their constructive approach to the proposal. i also wish to thank ms maria arena and the committee on employment and social affairs for their much appreciated opinion. i believe we have reached the common objective to ensure that european policymakers and citizens can continue to rely on the valuable facts provided by the european statistical programme.
on behalf of the epp group. i wanted to speak on this subject because i appreciate that it is more than vital for the effectiveness of european policies to use statistical data, but above all to evaluate them and the trends that result from them. statistics give us a snapshot of the current state of our society, our economy, and the labour market, i.e. living conditions, incomes of european citizens, and trends in various economic and social sectors, providing concrete data. the design, implementation and monitoring of european union policies can only be achieved by having a solid, impartial, reliable statistical basis containing concrete and relevant data. i therefore consider that the european statistical programme should be extended until 2020 and that the financial support to ensure its improvement should be provided. at the same time, the european institutions must pay due attention to the statistics provided, precisely to be able to react promptly when possible crises in multiple areas are identified, while also preventing their occurrence. if they had taken into account the statistics and the results at some point in the dairy sector in 2016, we would not have had a crisis that hit this segment in full. efficient policies would certainly have succeeded in ensuring a balance between demand and supply on the market in this sector. last but not least, the migration crisis could have been anticipated and its social, economic and budgetary implications greatly mitigated if the trends of this phenomenon had been taken into account in advance.
mr president, it seems that mr coburn was in a great hurry. first, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gualtieri, on the outcome of the report and for stressing within it the need to strengthen the quality of eu statistics, in particular the macro—economic, employment and social statistics, to better implement the eu 2020 agenda. secondly, i would like to welcome the proposed extension of the european statistical programme to 2020 as i consider it important to align it with the present financial framework. there were still a number of gaps that needed to be filled in order to better support eu policies. moreover, the statistical infrastructure was also not yet flexible enough to deliver new data when needed. therefore, i believe it is essential to improve the quality of statistics, especially on sustainable development, and ensure that our policies are based on more than gdp or debt deficit indicators. high-quality statistics should contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals of the united nations’ 2030 agenda for sustainable development and to the 2015 paris climate agreement.
member of the commission. – mr president, your vote will be an important step in finalising yet another element of the capital markets union, reviewed rules for european venture capital funds and new european social entrepreneurship funds. venture capital is an important source of funding for businesses in the start-up and expansion phase. by providing capital-intensive financing and specialised support, venture capital fills an important gap in the funding escalator that other financial actors may not be able to fill. unfortunately, europe is currently lagging behind other markets in this area. european venture capital funds are fragmented, concentrated in only a few member states, and often lacking in scale. the original regulations aimed to address this funding by creating deeper and more integrated venture capital markets in europe. by setting up eu-wide labels, euveca and eusef were designed as a means for qualifying funds to market themselves easily across the eu. euveca had some success, with about 126 euveca funds having been notified to esma as of last month, but this is not enough to meet the financing challenge. for eusef progress has been slow, with only seven funds notified so far. under the cmu project, the european commission therefore made reviewing euveca and eusef regulations a matter of priority in order to turn these labels into truly effective vehicles for venture and social capital financing in europe. more specifically, we introduced three main changes to improve and speed up the growth and spread of these funds. first, we extended the range of managers eligible to market and manage euveca and eusef funds to include large fund managers. in other words, those with assets under management of more than eur 500 million. these managers can provide economies of scale and trusted brands, thereby passing benefits on to investors. second, we expanded the ability of euveca funds to invest in small midcaps and smes listed on sme growth markets. this should increase the diversification possibilities offered by euveca funds and therefore make them more attractive to investors. third, we decreased costs by explicitly prohibiting fees imposed by member states’ authorities where no supervisory activities were performed. we also simplified registration processes. the new rules for euveca funds are part of a range of measures we are putting forward in order to support innovation by strengthening european venture capital markets. throughout the legislative process, the legislators have shown a clear commitment to developing the rules and finding necessary compromises. the final text provides certainty and simplicity about requirements for the level of own funds to be held by managers. legislators have also taken practical steps to clarify and enhance the role of esma in ensuring consistent and convergent practices among national competent authorities across the eu. the commission welcomes these changes which will further help revitalise the euveca and eusef labels. colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, by endorsing the political agreement you will move europe one step closer to a high-growth, innovation-led economy by breaking down the barriers currently impeding venture and social investment at eu level. we want to take this opportunity again to thank the european parliament and, in particular, the rapporteur mrs pietikäinen, the shadow rapporteurs, and also mr gualtieri for their efforts and constructiveness during the trilogue negotiations.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, a weak point of the capital markets in the european union is the lack of venture capital funds. this is perhaps the most important qualitative difference between the capital markets in the european union and the capital market in the us, where these venture capital funds are particularly funding innovation start-ups. i can therefore only welcome the european commission's proposals and the agreement reached, the rapporteur and all those who have worked on this project, as the proposed measures improve the conditions for both the creation and development of these venture funds, open up the opportunity to finance start-ups, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and of course strengthen the role of the european securities and markets authority in this area. i'll vote on these motions.
mr president, even though considered the main cornerstones of the capital markets union (cmu) action plan, both the european venture capital funds and the european social entrepreneurship funds are, at this moment, small and concentrated only in a few member states. for this reason, and not only, i would like welcome the reforms proposed within the report that is outlining measures which aim to stimulate venture capital in europe, bring forward the important contribution of the two investment schemes for a more integrated european internal market with access to funding and to capital for companies of all sizes in all member states. on the one hand, i support especially the proposal to lower the threshold of european venture capital funds to eur 50 000, as this would increase access to funding and would widen the spectrum of investment possibilities. on the other hand, a more stringent surveillance at eu level, by strengthening the supervisory role of the european securities and markets authority, will avoid excessive risk-taking and instability in financial markets. moreover, it would also facilitate cross-border operations.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) and the committee on culture and education (cult) and, in particular, the co-rapporteurs, ms dlabajová and mr nekov, for this comprehensive report. we launched the new skills agenda in june 2016. since then, we have delivered on nine of its ten key actions, including the upskilling pathways recommendation and the european qualifications framework. parliament has adopted its position on the europass decision, and the council is making good progress. discussions have also started on the commission proposal on graduate tracking. we have launched the digital and skills and job coalition, the skills profile tool for third—country nationals and the blueprint for sectoral cooperation on skills. and soon we will present the results of the public consultation on the review of the european framework of key competences that we organised this year. your report clearly shows that we are going in the right direction. together, we should keep up the political momentum. we agree with you that, in a fast—changing, global economy, ‘the skills and know-how of our societies are the sole basis for prosperity and for safeguarding our social achievements’. this is why the first principle of the european pillar of social rights states that everyone has the right to quality and inclusive education, training and life-long learning. your report rightly emphasises the connection between education and employment, and the need to promote cooperation among stakeholders. this is at the very heart of the skills agenda. together, we must break the silos. your decision for a joint report of the empl and cult committees underscores the cross-cutting nature of the skills agenda. this joined-up approach, working across ministries, extends to national skill strategies, which we are supporting in cooperation with the oecd. skills are acquired early in life and must be constantly updated. unfortunately, 70 million europeans currently do not master the most basic skills. our upskilling pathways recommendation will make a tangible difference for them. we share your view on the importance of non-formal and informal learning. member states have committed to putting in place arrangements for validation of these skills by 2018. work-based learning deserves particular attention. in october, the commission will present a council recommendation on a framework for quality and effective apprenticeships. together with the new erasmus pro for cross—border apprenticeships, this will boost quality opportunities for young people. digitisation and globalisation are transforming the way we live and work, reshaping the range of skills needed in our society and in the labour market. while we cannot exactly predict the skills of tomorrow, digital and entrepreneurial skills will certainly be important. already today, 90% of jobs require digital skills. through our digital skills and jobs coalition, seven million europeans were trained in less than a year. in 2018, the commission will launch the ‘digital opportunity’ scheme, a pilot project giving graduates in all disciplines hands-on experience through cross-border internships in the digital area. moreover, together with stakeholders, we have developed tools to improve citizens’ skills: the digital competence framework and the entrepreneurship competence framework. and to show what skills are most needed and where, from next year we will publish data on skills needs and trends using big data analysis. the success of the skills agenda depends on our joint commitment and efforts. indeed, the responsibility for education and training lies with member states. we trust that, with your support, they will adapt and shape the skills agenda to meet labour market needs and fulfil citizens’ aspirations.
reporting for an opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. madam president, as rapporteur for the imco opinion, i wanted to emphasise a few important points with my colleagues. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission for adopting in 2016 a new skills agenda for europe. it is absolutely essential to see what we can do with human resources and we, the imco commission, of course, who are in charge of the internal market, are confident and convinced that in order to ensure sustainable growth, social cohesion and the creation of new jobs, as well as to promote innovation and entrepreneurship, especially for smes and the craft sector, it is essential to close skills gaps, to address skills mismatches and to promote opportunities for social mobility. the commissioner has also pointed out, and we agree with him, that the member states certainly have an obligation: the internal market information system must work effectively and contribute to improving the exchange of data and strengthening administrative cooperation. i also stress the need to take account of real market needs and to take measures to develop skills.
madam president, this report was one of the ones i worked on with the greatest pleasure, because it deals with issues that i consider to be truly essential for our european future: education and the development of citizens. above all other burning priorities of our union, i do not believe that we can speak of real development without having an education and training system that gives europeans a real chance at a better future. the new skills agenda in europe does not seem to bring any shocking new elements. this report sets out a number of simple principles and actions. however, they can have a very big impact if they are implemented with seriousness and commitment by each member state. education and training are, of course, the exclusive competence of each member state, but i think we can all accept that we have enormously much in common. i don't think we have any excuse left for not investing in inclusive education that addresses social and economic challenges, that ensures equal access and opportunity for all, regardless of age. i believe that the right of every european to acquire 21st century skills throughout his or her life must be respected. it calls on the member states to focus in their vocational training and education programmes both on skills that contribute to employability, such as basic skills such as literacy and numeracy, and on digital literacy and skills that are relevant to society more generally. these would be transversal, transferable or non-technical skills such as leadership, social and intercultural skills, managerial and entrepreneurial education. furthermore, i ask member states to implement concrete measures to facilitate the transition of young people from education to work by providing quality and well-paid traineeships and apprenticeships and to ensure that young people have a set of social and economic rights. i think we have a great agenda for skills in europe. my question is, what are we going to do with it?
in writing. the new skills agenda is one of the key tools for achieving the objectives of social cohesion and job creation and growth, addressing two urgent challenges facing the european union: the lack of labour market-relevant skills and the creation of educational programmes for all social groups. among the ten actions proposed by the commission in the agenda for the coming years, i consider the recommendations on key competences to be of strategic importance for the eu. to respond to the economic and social transformations that have taken place over the last decade, a common approach to a core set of skills for working and living in the 21st century is urgently needed. in this regard, a priority will be the digital sector, where we need a strategy to equip european citizens with the appropriate digital skills. as a member of the tran commission, however, i remain convinced that the european skills strategy needs to pay more attention to tourism. this can be one of the sectors through which we can tackle youth unemployment and revitalise the eu economy. that is why i support the establishment of a tourism academy, which will give young europeans the chance not only to get a job but also to start a successful career.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i agree with what you said and what your colleagues said. and with what the commissioner said. but do you not think that we meps should know clearly which countries are opposed to this? (the commissioner said that there are states that are opposed. and we, as european parliamentarians, go to the national parliaments, obviously, to the states that oppose, and ask for an explanation because yes, we do not have to be dependent on russian gas.
mr president, we are indeed saddened to see that aung san suu kyi is not able to handle this extremely worrying situation. the urgent issue now is access for humanitarian aid. i think we should stress this point. that's the priority. secondly, i want to announce that the epp group has decided not to send any members to the inta delegation next week. it is inconceivable to organize an inta delegation at this time. on the other hand, the epp group's proposal - which i presented to the enlarged bureau a few minutes ago - aims to organise a well-prepared afet and droi mission from both sides in myanmar and bangladesh within a few weeks. a mission not in the capitals, but on the ground, because you don't have to go there to listen to official speeches in the capitals. we'll have to get there when we can arrange it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the persecution of the rohingyas, the largest stateless group in the world, is not a new phenomenon. they have been targeted for decades, during which thousands have lost their lives. what is different today is the brutality of the military campaign, which in no universe can be considered proportionate to the insurgent attacks carried out last month. what is unfolding before the eyes of the world is an inhuman process of ethnic cleansing. solid reports confirm soldiers and militiamen raping and mutilating women, decapitating children and setting fire to buildings with people herded into them. what is also different is that all this is happening under the process the west sees as democratisation and under the government of a nobel prize winner, who would not even spell out the name of the people being massacred. the response of the eu should be firm in the face of this atrocity.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote : see minutes)
thank you for the suggestion. this way everybody would be at peace. – after the vote:
who would like to speak against? mrs hautala, you have the floor.
colleagues, vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs federica mogherini, would like to say a few words. you have the floor.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i understand you are under time pressure, but i think we are discussing something important. just to confirm what mr danjean said: this decision to enter negotiations has been long awaited. next week in new york, many of our partners – the central african republic, the horn of africa, the sahel – will ask us again, as they have done for many years now, if we are ready to do more to support their own work on peace and security, and i would really like finally to bring them good news after four years. this is not about moving the objective from development to security. on the contrary, it is to fulfil sdg no 16 that links development and security and asks all international players also to dedicate resources to guarantee that the security conditions are there for the development work to be effective. so i hope for a wise decision from this chamber. (applause)
thank you very much. we will now decide by roll call vote.
i think that if we raise these sorts of questions – why the vice—president of the commission/high representative, who is with us all the time – we question her credentials to come and tell us something which is relevant to the vote which we are taking, i think we should not expect that. (shouting and applause)i therefore open the vote.
that concludes the vote.
mr president, only 4.2% of people with disabilities have a job in romania. in the european union, the figure is as high as 50%. however, it is also a small percentage in the european union. a europe for all must not be just a slogan, but a reality. so people with disabilities have to have full and very easy access to products and services, to everything that means cultural life, to everything that means transportation, access to the internet, bank transfers and so on. there must be no difference between what we, the non-disabled, can do and what the disabled can do. so - and all of this is reflected in the labour market - there has to be a place in the labour market for vocational training, and school training, all of which leads to finding a job. that's why i support special measures to increase the percentage to 50% in the european union, of course, and in romania.
mr president, transparency, accountability and integrity in the european institutions means a very simple principle: we respect the law and make laws for the citizens. not for interest groups, not for industries, not for lobbyists. we here represent the citizens. it is unacceptable that we still don't have a mandatory transparency register and it is still optional and we have a debate for years that shows us how much opposition there is to a mandatory lobby register. for every bill that comes through this institution's door, people need to know who they've met with, who their rapporteurs and representatives have listened to. it's a shame that we don't have a european program for protecting those whistleblowers and investigative journalists. because they are the ones who discover the illegal things in institutions, including european institutions, and as such, they need to be protected. i therefore again call for the swift adoption of a mandatory register of transparency, witness protection, whistleblowers and investigative journalists. and also reforming the european institutions, because we have too many and too many employees. in order to move forward, we need to be a little smaller and more flexible and only focus on what's important.
mr president, more than 3 000 romanian students go to european universities each year to study in the erasmus programme. the erasmus+ programme is a very valuable tool for exchanging experience, for education in different countries of the union and for exchanging good practices in the field of education. the current erasmus+ programme has a budget of eur 14,7 million and is insufficient. the number of students, teachers and researchers benefiting from this programme is increasing year by year, which means that it is a good and effective programme. that is why the erasmus budget must be increased and this must be done from the next multiannual financial framework 2020. only in this way will we respond to the growing demand for erasmus+ mobility programmes in the light of ideas that highlight the benefits of mobility for higher education, innovation, research and the progress of citizens and the progress of the european union.
mr president, few people will doubt that erasmus+ is one of the most significant achievements of the union, directly experienced by european citizens. we need this success story all the more because it can help shape the worldview, character and faith of the future generation in a common europe. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have a national programme for the protection of the environment. in particular, it points to the social selectivity that is unfortunately still present in the programme: lower-income students have limited access to the programme, and a high proportion of students in the programme are supported financially by their families. detailed rules are needed to enable mobility for all, including those who have to work to finance their studies, as many young people do.
mr president, just as technological and trade patterns are shifting, industrial employment is declining and jobs become more sophisticated and demanding, skill shortages in european economies are becoming more and more apparent. against this situation, the commission’s new skills agenda initiative is extremely welcome even though the role of the eu in this field is only a supportive one. just as the foundation of long-term productivity and growth is a highly skilled workforce, the key to developing such a workforce lies in education systems and investment in education staff. ensuring quality education at all stages, including lifelong learning possibilities regardless of age, must be an absolute priority for us. this is why i, for one, would be extremely glad to see european semester recommendations on minimum levels of investment in education and training, as well as minimum levels of education quality in member states that lag behind.
for unrwa, yes.
ok. thanks a lot.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the socialists and democrats reject this infamous attack against the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa), the un agency providing protection and assistance to the palestinian refugees in the middle east for almost seven decades. a huge number of palestinian refugees have been facing an extremely precarious situation, as they are in the front line of a series of regional conflicts that converge and amplify one another. palestinian refugees who periodically had few conflicts live and survive in extreme poverty and insecurity. the syrian crisis has exacerbated the situation in the twelve palestinian camps existing in this country, and in spite of achieving remarkable results in the field, unrwa’s capabilities are stretched beyond limits. this problem is recurring every time, and i think that we as the union and we as the european parliament should fight, together with the commission, every year to face our responsibility and, together with our other international partners, find a more stable solution for unrwa funding. finally, this interpellation does not represent in anyway the position of this parliament. the rules of procedure have been abused and misused by a minority group on the right – i would say a far-right minority group. we continue to strongly support the agency and praise unrwa for their most-needed, difficult but also extraordinary efficient work they are doing. i will tell the colleagues from efdd: they should go one single day to see how unrwa is operating in those camps – what they are doing – and only after to come here and to spread these unacceptable lies. unrwa is a part of the solution and not a part of the problem when it comes to ensuring stability in the middle east today and achieving a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians tomorrow. i won’t comment on or question today the honesty of efdd – this is not the case. instead of any other conclusion, mr president and madam commissioner, i can only say: for some people infamy has no limits, and we should stop this process in the future.
mr president, on 31 august last, the committee on foreign affairs voted on the opinion i drafted on the 2018 budget. in particular, it stressed the importance of the union continuing to play a central role in supporting the middle east peace process, the palestinian authority and unrwa. the budgetary amendments also sought to respond to the financial difficulties faced by unrwa, which has to meet the growing needs of some five million palestinian refugees. our support for unrwa is consistent and rightly seen as part of our strategy of engagement for peace in the region. in the context of what i have just mentioned, i find it incongruous that we are debating today, barely two weeks after this vote, the idea of abolishing unrwa. what kind of signal are we sending if we vote on budgetary amendments that favour unrwa on the one hand and debate its abolition on the other? that said, my group has always supported the strengthening of the responsibility of all bodies receiving european funds. there is always room for improvement and for ensuring that taxpayers' money is used responsibly to achieve our strategic objectives in line with our values. it would be better to do this by acting constructively rather than by talking about abolition.
mr president, i am speaking in full support of your point of view, because i think it is unacceptable to introduce a question under the heading 'great interpellations' and not have anyone from the group concerned come forward to talk about this interpellation. it's a hindrance to the work of others. that way, we can come up with 15 questions and block out all the other groups here. it is unacceptable for a group to bring an interpellation without being able to be present to defend it. we are not the playthings of the radical political groups in this parliament. i therefore took the floor to support your interpretation. i think that from now on, groups which are not able to defend what they want to put on the agenda should be excluded from these debates.
mr president, as far as we know, on wednesday morning we have a debate on the preparation of the council meeting. do we change the agenda for wednesday morning? shall we move it somewhere? we have to decide when.
mr president, first i would like to welcome the 28 recommendations for conservation, management and control of fisheries, as they have not yet been covered by eu rules. even though they are binding, the decisions adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) must be transposed as soon as possible into eu law. the regulation will set out various specific provisions on, for example, tropical tunas, marlins, sharks and swordfish, and will include measures to limit incidental catches of seabirds and turtles. it will also establish a number of common control measures. taking into consideration that the iccat may regularly review its recommendations and decide on new measures, i would like to underline my support for the proposal to give the commission delegated powers so that such recommendations can be incorporated rapidly into eu law.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that so many men have spoken on such a subject and i hope that they will be able to influence the equality of opportunity in their countries. women's ability and intelligence are resources that should not be ignored. studies, as the report shows, show that if we improve this equality of opportunity, we could add over 10 million jobs by 2050. equal opportunity doesn't have to be a statistic. but we are also talking about education here and i will vote wholeheartedly for this report, but i think we must also see, commissioner, how it is transposed into national legislation and how it relates to education, because we still have barriers and attitudes in both women and men, precisely because of the precariousness of education. we need to support women to get the job they want, but to be paid, to be paid at the same job with the same pay if they have the same responsibility.
madam president, please. increasing women's economic participation is a desirable tool in making our societies more equitable, but a better reconciliation of work and family life is essential. member states also have a lot to do to improve the existing legal framework, by making the different forms of employment more flexible and by promoting part-time and teleworking. today, there are member states in the eu where the proportion of these flexible forms of work is still declining. in romania, the government has even introduced that companies pay the same public contribution for their part-time employees as for their full-time employees. this is by no means a measure to strengthen the position of women in the labour market in a country which is still significantly behind other member states and its commitments to the eu in terms of employment.
madam president, i wanted to speak because this is an important subject for everyone, and that is why all members of this parliament, including men, must be able to express their views on this report. i would like to welcome the call for concrete action for women's economic empowerment in the private and public sectors in the eu for equal pay between men and women for equal work and work of equal value. i believe that the draft on women's economic empowerment is right and smart at the same time, because it is enhancing a better-quality work-life balance. we should step up towards concrete legislation that includes gender perspective, which does not necessarily equate to empowerment without including measures to combat all forms of gender-based violence. finally, it is accurate to state that gender equality and gender balance is an incontrovertible fundamental right in the better integration of women in the labour market and can lead only to property and economic growth.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate anna hedh on her approach to this report. in a society in constant evolution, i believe that education is the most important tool for women to be able to participate fully in social and economic development, to be able to find a quality job. one of the key actions to achieve this is to strengthen policies and increase investment in education and training, promoting sectors and functions where women are underrepresented to increase their employment rate in such positions. in addition, entrepreneurship training is essential, coupled with training and support in accessing alternative sources of finance and business networking opportunities to launch their own businesses based on innovative ideas, alone or in collaboration.
in writing. – whether in businesses, as entrepreneurs or employees, or by doing unpaid care work at home, women make enormous contributions to economies. therefore, their economic empowerment is an essential element of gender equality, further boosting growth and prosperity. but while the eu is a world leader when it comes to women’s rights, it is unacceptable that it still lags behind as regards to their participation in the labour market and in economic decision-making. given that women are the most affected by austerity, cuts and, unfortunately, violence, we need binding measures on pay transparency at work, and policies to tackle all forms of gender-based abuses. i am happy that the present report makes bold and necessary recommendations as to how to empower women. as a member of tran committee, i fully support women’s equal participation on the labour market, particularly in areas normally associated with men, such as transport, where only two out of ten workers are female. all sectors need to create better opportunities for women, but the transport sector is one of the sectors that can bring new opportunities, especially in the age of digitalisation and automation. women empowerment is the only way to dismantle stereotypes and break barriers.
madam president, commissioner, i want to start by congratulating the rapporteur because it is a report we all need. i agree that civil society is the third sector of a democratic, decent, healthy society, alongside the public and private sectors. civil society can play an important role in strengthening democracy, in monitoring state power, in promoting good governance. i understand the concern expressed about some cases of the closure of the space for civil society. but i want to draw attention to the fact that there is a direct link between the level and quality of education and the integrity, quality and efficiency of civil society. that is why i believe, commissioner, that we need to have related programmes through which we can provide education to the population, because civil society is actually who? - the population. perhaps there are examples in developing countries where, within civil society, so-called civil society, we have cases of people who are corrupt and who act contrary to democracy. that's why i see the two programs as linked.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the committee on development and, in particular, the rapporteur, teresa jiménez-becerril barrio, and the shadow rapporteurs for presenting this forward-looking report with very useful recommendations on how we can address the worrying trend of shrinking space for civil society in certain countries. this is a reality that we must tackle together as it is the only way development cooperation will bear fruit. the european union is seeking to formulate coherent and effective responses – building on the experience gathered so far. we are increasing our efforts in preserving civil space and ensuring an enabling environment for civil society organisations. clear expressions of our strong commitment are: the commission’s communication on europe’s engagement with civil society in partner countries from 2012, the eu global strategy on foreign and security policy and our new european consensus on development. they all emphasise the crucial role of civil society as actors of governors and development. overall, your report is in line with the thinking and the ongoing work of the commission and the high representative to strengthen our support to civil society organisations and to continue our engagement in promoting their greater autonomy. eu delegations are at the forefront of translating eu policies into concrete actions on the ground. therefore they proactively identify and report on threats to civil society space, including reprisals, and take steps to counter such threats. this implies using all of our diplomatic tools throughout the world, human rights dialogues and high-level contacts to raise the cases of individuals at risk. supporting a genuinely independent, diverse, pluralistic and vibrant civil society is essential to help achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. we are committed to investing more in existing good practices and highlighting the positive aspects of the sustainable development goals’ implementation through civil society organisations. the commission and the high representative are engaging with eu partner countries through various channels. when it comes to development cooperation, we support partner countries through funding that focuses on engagement with civil society and by ensuring consistency between all relevant eu policies and activities. however, i would like to emphasise that the support to our partner countries is not only financial. our relations with civil society organisations are, first and foremost about policy dialogue, hence the need for appropriate space for them to share their views. the commission will continue engaging with various stakeholders to drive this agenda forward and the european parliament is one of our essential partners. building trust and continuing to work closely with all relevant actors is key to addressing the challenges faced by civil society. as you know, the eu guidelines on human rights defenders were adopted in 2008. we consider human rights defenders as one of the cornerstones of every well—functioning state and are key allies in the promotion of the democratisation and expansion of civil space. providing support and giving them visibility has been, and remains, one of the major priorities of the eu’s external human rights policies. the progress and achievements since 2012 are reflected in the commission’s report on eu engagement with civil society in external relations, which was issued in april this year. it provides concrete examples of how the eu is acting on its priorities with regard to civil society, showing the diversity, complementarity and strength of the eu’s worldwide interventions in support of civil society. the report was followed by council conclusions last june, which confirm that on this essential point all eu institutions stand united. the commission and the high representative are committed to continue working closely with the european parliament and eu member states to ensure that together we can build a better environment for civil society organisations. by preventing the further shrinking of civil space, we are not only enabling civil society organisations to engage more effectively as development actors, but we are living up to our duty to defend the values of democracy, freedom, pluralism and solidarity.
in writing. – i welcome the report as it puts the spotlight on the central role that civil society plays in ensuring democratic consolidation, social justice and respect for human rights as well as in promoting accountability and good governance. whereas clamping down on civil society organisations is getting more difficult to address, we need to step up efforts and provide guidance to beneficiary countries on strategies for creating adequate legal, administrative and political environment, which allows to these key actors to work efficiently. civil society actors including human rights defenders and development ngos must always possess the space to operate free from intimidation, harassment, violence and undue bureaucratic burdens. moreover, in line with the eu’s long—standing commitment to civil society in developing countries, i strongly believe that we have to boost our engagement through increased and diversified funding modalities and mechanisms.
madam president, just as people, services and things become more and more sophisticated and interconnected, so are they becoming more likely to become targets of ever more intense and complex cybercrime. as the 2016 report of the internet organised crime threat assessment (iocta) revealed, cybercrime even exceeds traditional crime in some eu countries and is closely interlinked with other dangerous areas of crime. a comprehensive european approach to building cybercrime resilience therefore would need to be able to reply to diverse challenges. besides harmonisation of legislation, it should be recognised that companies cannot deal with the challenge alone, and new regulation should provide more and efficient legal tools and incentives encouraging safer behaviour by service providers and users. technological development allowed a previously unforeseen level of convenience, ease of use of services and well-being. but these can be safeguarded only in a free, open and secure cyberspace.
madam president, please. like the rapporteur, i strongly support the resumption of negotiations and the related negotiations on the eu-asean free trade agreement. as the eu's third largest trading partner outside europe, asean has a significant contribution to make to adapt more quickly and effectively to the changes in world trade. it is also important that enhanced cooperation between the states of the region can improve the chances of addressing the significant economic and social disparities between asean member states. it is therefore in the common interest to raise economic and, in parallel, political relations to a higher level, which can of course also be accompanied by an improvement in the human rights situation. the eu can best contribute to the changes in these societies by setting an example, by showing its social structure which is attractive to many.
madam president, recently, in his state of the union address, the president of the european commission, mr juncker, stated the need for romania and bulgaria to be accepted into the schengen area. his message was subsequently reinforced by the european commissioner for migration, home affairs and citizenship, who stated that a coordinated and unified schengen area should include bulgaria and romania. the european commission has known and recognized for some time that romania has respected its commitments and therefore the acceptance of our country in the schengen area is legitimate, correct and desirable. such a step is not only to the advantage of romania or bulgaria, but also to the benefit of the other member states, as it would allow for enhanced cooperation on all aspects of strengthening security at the eu's borders. invoking any pretext to block romania's accession to the schengen area is contrary to the principles we share and counterproductive for the security and economy of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my statement this evening is about people with physical, mental and intellectual disabilities. yes, we all know they have rights under the un convention. unfortunately, national laws reflect the rights of these people differently and not only reflect them differently, but also differ in the way they are applied. i had several meetings with european disability associations, national associations and associations in my country. the discussions we have had have led me to state this evening, commissioner, because i believe it is necessary, especially in regard to the institution of guardianship, that those persons with disabilities who are in the guardianship of others are simply worse off than in detention. so i think we need to look back, to look at the national level, at the european level, how we could regulate uniformly the rights of tens of millions of people with disabilities. the existence of a disability does not justify the loss of rights and i think it is worthwhile to make this analysis and i ask you to do so, commissioner.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ukrainian parliament recently adopted an update of the law on education promulgated by the president of the country. it limits education in the languages of national minorities. this is a gross violation of the international obligations of the ukrainian state. minorities like the romanian minority and many others will suffer enormously from this law. i am extremely disappointed that the european union's response to this abuse has been non-existent. but today, i want to ask the european parliament to sanction ukraine urgently and without reservation. if this country, as it claims, wants to get closer to the european union, it must know that such laws, motivated by the need to homogenize the population, belong to other centuries. they have no place in europe, they cannot be promoted by the true friends of the european union. all of these aggressive actions against multiculturalism can also be found in the recent speeches of british brexit negotiators. they threaten, among other things, the possible imposition of visas on romanians, bulgarians and poles. i believe we have an obligation not to leave all these european citizens alone in the face of these abuses and these historic disasters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, brexit has created an addiction. there is no plenary session without a dose of debate on this issue. i'm trying to get out of the logic of political groups and into a normal logic. by triggering article 50, the politics have already spoken. now let's let the negotiating teams do their job. if we, parliament, interfere in the technical negotiations, brexit will happen on the greek calendar. now, it's in both parties' interests that the separation be quick and smooth, without leaving skeletons in the closet. on the other hand, i would stress that brexit sets a precedent not only by leaving the union, but also by the fact that at some point any state may want to do so. also, any state that has left after a certain time may wish to re-enter. europe cannot follow the united states. we need another model, more modern and more dynamic. the european union will only survive and develop if it understands that there must be a dynamic balance between the central and the local. now, it's clear that the speed at which change is happening is outpacing our procedures, which are centralized, cumbersome and inefficient.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to stress at the outset that i support the resolution and congratulate the political groups which have undertaken such a revolution. i come from a country that has concerns about the situation of its citizens living in the uk. the issue of whether the uk will introduce visas for my country's citizens after the uk's withdrawal from the eu is a major issue for me and my country. discrimination against european citizens, whatever their nationality, is unacceptable. that is why i congratulate you on the fact that in the resolution we have this magic word: 'reciprocity'. we must ensure equal treatment, reciprocity. this must be the basic condition alongside the payment of everything spent from the eu budget in the 28 and not in the 27. i congratulate the rapporteurs - the decision to leave the european union has a cost and this cost must be borne by the person who took the decision, not only by those for whom it has created problems of reorganisation. it is a pity that the citizens who did not vote for brexit are also paying the price. it would be very interesting for the uk to have a referendum on the issue after brexit is negotiated.
chief negotiator for brexit. mr president, at the end of this long, intensive and lively debate, my first words will be to thank the european parliament for its many testimonies of support for the work i have the honour of conducting with the confidence of president juncker, the commission services, and in confidence with your own team, guy verhofstadt's team and all the members of the european parliament's brexit steering group and the group chairmen. we need that support and confidence, and also the unity shown by the vast majority of this parliament. at the end of this debate, during which i have listened to you all with great attention, and in apologising for not answering as i usually do, i would like to say a few words to each and every one of you. first of all, i would like to make it clear to many of those who have spoken that there are two words which i cannot accept, because they do not correspond to my state of mind or attitude. these are the words for revenge and punishment. i have had a great admiration for the united kingdom for a very long time. i often recall that in 1972, when i voted for the first time as a young french citizen, i was 21 years old, and i campaigned for the referendum held in my country on the accession of the united kingdom, ireland, denmark and norway. it was not easy for the young gaullist party member i was at the time, and i have never regretted that vote. i have great admiration for your country, ladies and gentlemen of the united kingdom, and you will never, ever, find in my attitude the slightest spirit of revenge or the slightest intention of punishment. i never will! (applause) i would like to thank mr. farage, there's another word i don't accept that you've used again, and that's ransom. there is no ransom, there is no exit invoice. it's just that when you decide to leave, we ask you to settle the accounts. no more, no less than that! paying what you've committed to! (applause from the left) i would add that this is important if we are to build, as you yourself have wished, a different but solid and lasting relationship in the future, in terms of trade, security, the fight against terrorism and defence. we need to trust each other for a lasting relationship in the future. the key to that trust is also that you objectively agree to settle the accounts. there's something you both said that i don't understand. it is the idea that the european negotiator that i am or the european union would want to drag things out or would want to hold you back, that they would play for time. but, ladies and gentlemen, the referendum in the united kingdom took place on june 23, 2016. we received the letter from theresa may notifying this withdrawal on 30 march 2017. we have, because of the uk elections, waited until the end of june 2017 to start this negotiation. we're not playing the clock. you took your time. we respect that time, but frankly i cannot accept that reproach. (applause from the left) we are even prepared, and i am prepared, to accelerate and intensify the pace of the negotiations as much as we can. ladies and gentlemen, there are a few points i would like to make by telegraph that we understand well or better. the united kingdom has decided to leave the european union. it's his sovereign choice. at the same time, it is leaving, as the uk government says, 'the single market and the customs union' after 44 years of integration. i recommend that no one, really no one, underestimate the complexity, the legal, human, social, economic and financial difficulties of this decision. i also recommend that everyone who has made this decision accept the consequences. (applause) i would like to thank secondly, we respect the sovereign choice of the british people. we're executing the withdrawal you've chosen. we want this withdrawal to be orderly, and for many reasons i think it is better that you leave the european union on 30 march with a deal than without a deal. it is in the common interest. we respect that choice, but we ask you to respect the european union. we ask you to respect the fact that we will be uncompromising on the integrity of the single market, respect for the rules of functioning and the decision-making autonomy of the european union. brexit cannot have consequences for the taxpayers of the european union. the consequences of brexit cannot be to weaken the single market and the four freedoms which are intrinsically part of it. (applause) finally, we will have to answer to each other, and to you, ladies and gentlemen, as elected representatives of the people, to the citizens, who are our priority when it comes to their rights. we'll have to answer to the taxpayers. we'll have to answer to the corporations. we will also have to answer to those who have built this european union over the last 60 years and for whom we are co-guarantors and co-responsible. i simply want the accounts we are going to give at the end of this negotiation, ladies and gentlemen, to be fair and true accounts. i shall not go into the various points of the negotiations which are still pending. we have made progress, clarified many points. i say that the public interest requires us to move forward in stages. we have a short time between now and october or november 2018 to conclude this brexit treaty, that is to say, divorce or orderly withdrawal, and if necessary, since this has been requested by the british government, a possible transition period, the conditions of which have been clearly framed by your resolution of last april and by the council guidelines. it will be a short, controlled period during which we will maintain, because that is our raison d'être, the whole architecture of regulating the budgetary and legal conditions and the role of the court of justice. it is your request that this short transitional period be granted, it is our right to say that it will be granted under the conditions of the single market. we are not surprised by this request for transition, we have foreseen it, we will discuss it when the time comes, and i will need a mandate to do so. i would also like to make a legal point for mr farage. the trade agreement you want cannot be signed with a member state of the union. you need to be legally out, outside, for us to sign this agreement. ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to hope throughout this ongoing negotiation that the constructive tone adopted by theresa may in her florence speech will be maintained and consolidated, and that we will be able to make further progress as from next week. as for me, in the responsibility that has been entrusted to me, with your confidence and support, throughout the coming months, i will ensure that the negotiations remain dignified, calm and firmly committed to the principles of the european union. (applause from the centre and the right)
in writing. – negotiation efforts between the eu and the uk seem to be stagnating. it has become apparent, now more than ever, that there is a great need for clear political direction from the uk and for a sense of partnership between the two parties. to my mind, the most important aspect of the negotiations is the status of european citizens living in the uk – especially that of romanian nationals – which must be clearly defined so as to avoid the risk of confusion with non-eu migrants. moreover, the uk must honour its promise to continue its financial contributions to the eu budget until the end of this financial year (following rule n+3). i am delighted to see that, given the circumstances, the eu is speaking with one voice, highlighting the coordination and collaboration among all the leading eu players.
madam president, in russia, civil society is eliminated by law. transparency international, for example, or the memorial organization founded by andrei sakharov and over a hundred other non-governmental organizations were forced by the kremlin to shut down. in turkey, judges, teachers, businessmen, their families, journalists, have been arrested on the grounds that they are gulenists. the azerbaijani landrover has shown how dozens of european politicians are corrupted by azerbaijan. the george soros propaganda lies have started to make their way into european countries and are heading towards dictatorships, obviously, because the effect is against civil society. to be honest, are we living up to the values of the european union or not? yes or no? it's a very simple question. if so, then let's impose these values on all countries in the eu and outside the eu and severely sanction, including financially, those that do not comply.
madam president, allow me to say a few words about the vote itself. i supported this report because i believe it is important that eu countries cooperate much more on those forms of crime which are cross-border. cybercrime is objectively part of that. no nation-state is capable of solving these problems on its own. the principle of cooperation between 28 countries is clearly in place here, and i support it. so i endorsed the report. there are a number of positive, concrete things in the report that need to be addressed in the future. the creation of a european cybercrime centre within europol is good, but it will also be necessary to consider how this centre will be active. whether it's just office for office or whether it's going to produce results. the parts of the report that are important are those that provide preventive measures. i think that is particularly important and i hope that the report will be implemented.
madam president, in 2016, in warsaw, nato recognized cyberspace as one of the threats that the alliance must defend against, just as it does now in air, sea, or land space. the wannacry attack in may of this year left behind over 200 victims in 150 countries. cyberspace has no rules, and that's why we need to give the necessary tools, including financial, including access to all databases to those who fight cybercrime. at this moment, the fight is totally unequal; the situation today shows that the means of fighting are insufficient and unequal. if we don't give them these tools and we don't increase, i repeat, the funding and we don't give them everything they need, then we're going to have even more deaths because we know very well that cybercrime also funds terrorism and helps money laundering. we can be one step ahead of crime, one step ahead of criminality, because otherwise we'll never solve anything.
madam president, the union is asean's second largest trading partner and the largest provider of direct investment. by 2020, the union and its member states have committed to allocate over eur 3 billion to reduce poverty and boost the development of low-income countries. but this financial aid must be conditional on respect for human rights and funding for civil society, the elimination of abusive arrests and dictatorships. for example, amnesty calls laws passed in various countries such as malaysia, thailand and others draconian. in malaysia, in november 2016, 15 activists were arrested for calling for electoral reform. or in thailand, in august 2017, student pai was sentenced to five years in prison for sharing the president's image on facebook. many other activists have been arrested and investigated for opposing torture and the dictatorial system. i mean, a country where people are not free will never develop and we put money into it for nothing.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in moldova (2017/2848(rsp)).
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the last few years have been particularly intense for our relationship with moldova. there are several reasons for this, including geography and the close ties between our people. but there is one reason in particular i would like to focus on, and that is the kind of relationship that we have proposed to moldova. a partnership with the european union is not about spheres of influence and geopolitics. we do not ask our partners to pick sides. they do not have to choose between us and other global powers – this is not how our partnership works. our partnership is always about improving the life of our citizens, inside the european union, and of course inside moldova. it is a partnership for, not against. it is about the economy and trade. it is about democracy, human rights, the rule of law and the fight against corruption. it is with this attitude that we are heading towards our eastern partnership summit next month. this is the spirit that led to the new association agenda that we adopted with moldova last august, setting out the priorities for the implementation of the association agreement in the coming two years. and this is also the spirit that leads us to speak out when we see new challenges emerge for democracy in moldova. this is what we did last july when a new electoral law was adopted. commissioner hahn and the vice-president/high representative said very clearly many times that the new legislation contradicts the recommendations of the venice commission of the council of europe, and the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights. both these institutions had pointed towards the importance of broad political consensus on the reform, and of avoiding a system that would expose candidates to the influence of business interests. these suggestions have not been addressed by the new electoral law. since then, the law has not yet been implemented. the effects of this law on multi-party democracy will depend on how it is implemented. from our side, i can assure you that we will continue to closely monitor developments, particularly on the definition of single-mandate constituencies. i know that you have discussed the electoral law within the framework of the decision on a macro-financial assistance programme for moldova. this decision has been adopted in agreement with the european parliament, and entered into force on 23 september 2017. any payment, though, will depend on the respect by moldova of political preconditions and by the implementation of a memorandum of understanding that we will sign with moldova. these conditions will include reforms that are necessary to guarantee macro-financial stabilisation, together with the implementation of our deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. turning now to reform for business, a healthy economy requires transparency in the financial and public sector; it requires a strong fight against corruption and money laundering; it requires a positive business climate. these are the reforms we will be asking for, because these are the reforms that the people of moldova expect. as you know, a massive banking fraud was recently unveiled in the country: a comprehensive investigation and the recovery of the diverted funds are also essential to the credibility of moldova’s economic system. last year, in 2016, we saw important reform in the energy sector, including on the use of renewable sources: it is now crucial to complete this reform process, with the swift adoption of the energy law. but a strong economy also needs to be supported by a strong and functioning democracy. for this reason, we will continue to monitor how moldova implements recommendations of international partners regarding the new electoral law. a healthy democracy does not only depend on a good electoral law: it also needs a strong judicial system, a serious fight against corruption, and of course a free and open space for civil society organisations. these are the issues that matter to the people of moldova, and so these are the issues we care about. our budget support aims precisely at supporting good reform in these fields. for instance, we have a budget support programme to support reforms in the justice sector, and for the moment we will not transfer any funds related to this programme since there has not been sufficient progress to justify these payments. there are also other pending budget support payments that are linked to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. turning to assistance now, this is how our partnership works. if you look at our package of assistance for 2017 to 2020, it has a strong focus on projects directly benefiting citizens, for instance on rural development, infrastructure and women’s empowerment. our assistance aims at supporting the reforms that will move moldova forward, particularly towards the goal of political association and economic integration with the european union. the more moldova does to address its citizens’ needs, the stronger our assistance and support. when we discuss budget lines and reforms, it may sound like we are talking technicalities. but everything we do has a very concrete impact on the lives of many – in the european union and in moldova. it is a partnership for our people, with very practical benefits for both sides. take the visa liberalisation that allows our citizens to travel freely between the european union and moldova, or the reforms that were adopted last year after our council conclusions on the republic of moldova of february 2016. the european parliament has been very active in shaping our partnership and making sure that we always focus on what truly matters: helping moldova become a stronger country with stronger democratic institutions and a stronger economy: a country that can truly address its citizens’ needs.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, in the pre-holiday session we discussed in this parliament the macro-financial assistance to moldova. we decided by vote to make the transfer of these funds conditional on the compliance of the chisinau authorities with the recommendations of the venice commission. i would remind you that this prestigious commission had stated very clearly that the transition to a mixed electoral system is not currently recommended for moldova. what happened two weeks after our discussion and vote in parliament, which the commission and the council agreed to in chisinau, disregarding all these references, was that parliament voted to amend the electoral law. why did this happen? we have an explanation at hand because, publicly, president dodon, a putin ally, and the head of the democratic party, a close ally of our european socialist colleagues, have considered that moldova's number one problem is the elimination of all parties except those they themselves lead. in these circumstances, i believe it is reasonable to ask the commission to strictly apply the pre-condition set and to suspend the transfer of the macro-financial assistance. moreover, i believe that there is a need for close monitoring of the implementation of the electoral law and political developments in moldova by the commission, the european external action service and the european parliament. i think it would be good if five members of this parliament joined this monitoring group.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i admit i almost understand the frustrations of the epp, and yet i will address in particular mr mcallister, mr brok, who have a solid understanding of the complexity of the situation in the republic of moldova. i heard in my romanian colleague's speech today the same thesis, an alleged complicity between the democratic party and the pro-russian president dodon, and i invite you to discuss the facts. i will not discuss the economic side, you know better than me, the economic situation is in favor of the republic of moldova and this has been confirmed by the international monetary fund and the european commission. firstly, the government of the republic of moldova participated with military forces in nato-organized exercises in ukraine this summer in response to zapad 2017. this was done with the opposition to president dodon. the president of the republic of moldova, the pro-russian dodon, systematically opposed the nomination of the minister of defense in two terms. the government of the republic of moldova has asked russian troops to leave transnistria and has done so including from the united nations in new york. more importantly, these days in the republic of moldova, there is discussion about amending the constitution to introduce a special article on european integration, so that a future dodon cannot divert the course of this country. are these facts complicity with russia or are they exactly the opposite? when we talk about electoral reform, commissioner, let's be clear: those who manipulate the subject of electoral reform forget or do not want to take into account the fact that this law is 100% copy/paste after the german electoral law, is it a democratic law or not? forget that over 80% of the recommendations of the venice commission have been incorporated, is this democratic or not? do they forget that we cannot judge the appropriateness of passing legislation? in a word, if we don't support moldova today, we give it to russia for free and then we will say in the end do svidaniya, moldova!, but at the hands of the epp.
mr president, the association agreement with the republic of moldova is aimed at the citizens of the republic of moldova and i believe that this should be a priority for every european politician, not political games aimed at strengthening one party or another. hi, commissioner, your approach to financial aid. projects directly aimed at the well-being of citizens must continue, because only in this way can the european union be relevant and bring well-being to this part of the world that is so controversial, so poor and so difficult to position in a security strategy in this area. otherwise, it would mean that the 100 million will probably come in a few years directly from moscow, and brussels will be irrelevant and it is a shame for what we have invested in supporting moldovan citizens, who are european citizens. the reforms continue. economic growth is 4%. there are, of course, issues to be resolved, but these with the support of the european union, and not otherwise, will bring prosperity to the republic of moldova.
mr president, at the last part-session here in strasbourg, the president of the commission put forward in his speech the proposal that the commission should come out this autumn with a roadmap for the integration of serbia and montenegro. i regret that moldova is not in this package. a few years ago, he was making great efforts and progress. unfortunately, lately, things have been different. there are a lot of things that are not right in moldova: we are talking about the rule of law, about corruption, about a lot of things that do not make moldova a state that can be a candidate state. but at the same time, the european union has a neighbourhood policy that wants to bring peace to europe's borders. all such partnership or association agreements are made for this purpose. that is why i think we must continue this policy. it's true, in the case of such states, in my opinion, there is only one possibility: conditions, then fulfillment of these conditions and then money. i think this is the way we should go.
mr president, today’s debate demonstrates that, notwithstanding the many challenges the eu is confronted with, the republic of moldova is and remains a top priority for the union and for this house. while many domestic and external challenges are still present, my feeling is that finally moldova is back on track. let me be very clear, the filip government is delivering results. the state of crisis of 2015 has been replaced by steady progress on important reforms. the economic situation has stabilised with many indicators showing solid improvement. it is a fact! political association and economic integration with the eu through the provisions of the association agreement and the dcfta are proceeding at a stable pace. the next months will be crucial to confirming this positive trend. this is why all political forces must overcome the polarised political climate ahead of the electoral period and engage in constructive dialogue, taking into account the real needs and expectations of the citizens. the eu and the european parliament are looking forward to working with both the majority and the opposition to this end. as always, we stand ready to assist the republic of moldova through all the means at our disposal. let me be very clear, and i have this advice from my colleagues from the epp group: we should work together, not bash ourselves!
mr president, moldova has received over eur 300 000 000 from the european union over the past three years for reforms in the judiciary, administration and infrastructure. why would you do that? because we want moldova to join the european family. but dodon and plahotniuc continue their project to take moldova off the european path. we opposed the uninominal vote in moldova, for example, as recommended by the venice commission, because it only used the oligarchs and putin's friends and did not use the population, whose vote would have been corrected and counted incorrectly. they ignored him, they ignored us in our decision and the venice commission and they voted unanimously. moldova lives on european money, not on plahotniuc's money, not on dodon's money and not on russia's money. moldova must stop its hypocrisy, the moldovan political class must stop its hypocrisy and must be sanctioned by making financial support conditional on respect for democratic principles and not stealing from the european union's money.
mr president, commissioner, distinguished colleagues. the real stakes of our relationship with the republic of moldova are the following: one - the reforms that the citizens of the republic of moldova expect, and two - the increase of the support of the citizens of the republic of moldova for the european path of the republic of moldova. the republic of moldova needs deep reforms in the judiciary, the fight against corruption, public administration and many other areas. people are waiting for these reforms, and we need to use all the tools at our disposal to accelerate the pace of reforms. we should not be afraid to apply conditionality to the financial support we are providing to the republic of moldova. on the contrary, cross-compliance is what the citizens of the republic of moldova expect. the citizens of the republic of moldova no longer want us to issue blank checks. only by standing firm in support of these reforms will we have the support of the citizens. we have to be honest. the parliamentary majority in chisinau has changed the electoral legislation despite the opinion of the venice commission and the warning signals of the european commission and has lost our trust as such. to be content with mimicking the reform process is to be naive and to lose the support of the citizens of the republic of moldova for the european integration process. as rapporteur-general for the european union budget, i have proposed since the beginning of the year more funds for the eastern neighbourhood, including the republic of moldova, but that this money be used where it is needed.
mr president, i have listened to the debate very carefully and i personally think that there are two conclusions to be drawn from it - at least for me - and for the commission representatives. first of all, i think it is necessary to make it clear to the moldovan authorities that the reform of the electoral law that has been adopted is unacceptable to us. i think we need to be clear on this, have a clear position and clearly criticize the state institutions. on the other hand, we should in no way restrict financial assistance to moldova. if we clear the area and withdraw from moldova, that area will be geopolitically occupied by russia. russia is waiting for our assistance to the former soviet satellites to be reduced, reduced, and russia will fill this space with power. so i am asking you, commissioner, to support the civil sector in moldova financially, to help the moldovans further, bearing in mind that the fight with russia for this territory is still ongoing.
mr. president, i believe that those who are calling for the suspension of the financial agreement and financial aid to the republic of moldova want to see this country taken to the eurasian union, where mr. dodon wants to take it - mr. dodon, who is doing everything possible to be included in the negative, dark side of the short history of the republic of moldova. the citizens of the republic of moldova want a european path and we have to think that next year, in 2018, there will be parliamentary elections. now is the time to support the european path of the republic of moldova more than ever. ladies and gentlemen, this is an important moment and we must not lose it. at the same time, i ask you, commissioner, i ask the european commission, the european parliament and other institutions, when they speak of moldova, to use the correct term of the republic of moldova, because moldova is also part of romania.
mr president, this debate on the republic of moldova is welcome. of all the eastern partnership countries, the republic of moldova is perhaps the most successful example. the european direction has been maintained, despite a lot of pressure from the east and i am obviously referring to russia. however, there is worrying information and evidence about the state of democracy, about the enticements, threats and pressures on some parliamentarians or local elected officials to change their political option in connection with the change of electoral legislation. the european commission must make every effort, as firm and as determined as possible, to ensure that the commitments undertaken by the republic of moldova are respected and that democracy and the rule of law function, and may even consider setting up a structure within the european commission to monitor the implementation of commitments, especially in the judicial field. and of course, if all these steps do not bear fruit, we can also talk about financial sanctions, although i fear that they will affect more ordinary citizens and less those who are currently leading the republic of moldova.
mr. chairman, commissioner, i'm going to take a different approach. i think we should get off the main goal. our main objective is for the republic of moldova to continue its path towards the european union. obviously we need two kinds of assistance from the european union: one, financial - and i disagree with what my colleagues in the epp have said, we cannot punish a people - and the other is to focus on how we can provide advice to the pro-european forces so that they can respond and achieve good results next year. we can't stop at the fact that the parliament of the republic of moldova voted to change the law. president dodon's public speech, critical of the european union and nato, shows that he is already preparing for the upcoming elections. what are we gonna do? we need to talk to the pro-european forces to unite, to have a speech, to have a strategy so that we avoid another mandate for dodon. i think that should be the strategy, commissioner, not simply suspending funding and assistance to the republic of moldova because it is strategic: the republic of moldova is important for the whole region, not just for the citizens of the republic of moldova.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a future part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer on the eradication of the practice of child marriage, addressed to the commission by vilija blinkevičiūtė, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o000064/2017 b80328/2017) (2017/2663(rsp)).
mr president we have spoken many times about the alarmingly high number of child marriages, yet it cannot be said enough that curbing the phenomenon is important not only for human rights reasons. and we have to add that these are children from poor families, especially in developing countries, who are dropping out of school, making it even harder for them and their families to move up and reduce poverty. child marriages are widespread in countries with large populations, such as india, bangladesh, and central africa, where population density is high and where migration to europe often originates. it's an astonishing figure that by 2030, 950 million people will be affected by child marriage, which is twice the population of the union. tradition and custom cannot explain the persistence of this phenomenon. if the world is to deal with the problems of overpopulation, global warming, and migration, it must end the practice of child marriage.
in writing. in addition to all the aspects of this sensitive subject mentioned in the oral question, i would first of all like to draw your attention to the fact that, with the recent migration crisis, new cases of child marriages abroad have emerged, sometimes involving children under the age of 14, which is absolutely shocking. secondly, i would like to emphasise that there are very few statistics available at national, union and international level to demonstrate the scale of the problem of child, early and forced marriage (cve). given that this practice is not only present in third countries but also in some member states of the european union, i believe that there is a need for an adequate and harmonised monitoring of all these marriages across the eu, as well as for a collection of data broken down by gender, in order to better assess the extent of this problem.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, last july, high representative mogherini and the egyptian foreign minister, sameh shoukry, chaired the european union-egypt association council, in the presence of commissioner hahn. it was on that occasion that our new partnership priorities were adopted. this was the first association council with egypt in seven years, so the first since the beginning of the revolts in the arab world. it is precisely in these times of transition that our cooperation becomes more important. it is important for the people of egypt and their aspiration to security, democracy and economic growth. it is essential for the region – from libya to syria – and it is essential for europe, because we are neighbours and we share many of the same challenges. so we are glad that we have managed to reopen such an important channel for dialogue with egypt. this does not mean that the european union and egypt agree on all files. but precisely when you disagree on something, engagement becomes essential. there is no other way to address any outstanding issue, in the interest of the egyptian people and of the whole region. our partnership with egypt will be structured around four main tracks. firstly, support to the egyptian government’s socio-economic reform agenda. in this field, there has been much concrete progress in the last year: the egyptian authorities adopted an economic reform plan supported by the international monetary fund, aimed at bringing back macroeconomic stability and inclusive growth. this is an important step, and we are eager to support the plan, including through our bilateral assistance programme. we are also keen to support egypt’s efforts to address the social and economic impact of these reforms, particularly on the most vulnerable parts of the population. the second track of our partnership is building stronger cooperation on common challenges, such as counterterrorism and migration. terrorism poses a fundamental threat to egypt’s stability and security. time and again, we have stood on the side of the egyptian people when they were hit by a new attack. it is not just ‘moral’ solidarity; we are ready for more concrete cooperation in this field, and the partnership priorities are giving us the opportunity to explore new forms of common engagement. let me add that, whenever we discuss counterterrorism with our egyptian counterparts, we always insist that repressive measures are never enough to address this issue. terrorism needs to be tackled in full respect of international human rights standards and fundamental freedoms. on migration, egypt has made an important contribution in hosting refugees, not least syrian refugees. it has also significantly reduced irregular migration flows, through the implementation of the valletta action plan and the khartoum process. a better and more humane management of migration flows is in the interest first and foremost of migrants, but also of countries of origin, transit and destination. so we are currently working with our egyptian counterparts to launch a high-level migration dialogue. the third track relates to closer dialogue and cooperation on foreign policy and regional issues. egypt currently seats on both the un security council and the african union political and security council. beyond that, it is an essential partner to address other crises in our region, starting with the conflict between israel and palestine. we share an interest in working together more, including on the conflicts in libya and syria, as well as to address tensions in the gulf. last, but definitely not least, there is a strong political track in our partnership, which includes governance, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european union’s position on this is very clear and we reiterate it constantly in our dialogue with our egyptian counterparts: sustainable security and stability can only be achieved when human rights – those guaranteed by the 2014 constitution and flowing from egypt’s international commitments – are fully implemented. if we want to help improve the situation of human rights in egypt or to preserve the space for civil society, we have no alternative to engaging with them. it is in this spirit that the european union special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, visited egypt in february, to enhance dialogue on human rights with the egyptian authorities. we continue to pass this message both in public and in private, in all our contacts both at bilateral level and in multilateral fora. this is what we did, for instance, on the possible consequences of the new ngo law. on ngos, in particular, there is something we should not forget. the european union is the biggest donor in egypt. total ongoing european union financial assistance commitments to egypt amount to over eur 1.3 billion in grants. if member state and european financial institutions’ grants, loans and debt-swaps are included, the figure rises to eur 11 billion. a relevant part of this bilateral assistance relies on civil society organisations as implementing partners. our partnership needs a strong and lively civil society, and this is something our egyptian friends should also keep in mind. the four tracks of our partnership are closely linked to one another. sustainable security is linked to sustainable development, which is linked to human rights and to regional stability. this is the approach we have adopted with our partnership priorities, and this is the proof that only through engagement can we can address our common interests for the people of egypt, for europe and for our entire region.
, on behalf of the epp group. mr president, the partnership between the union and egypt is important for the stability and prosperity of both shores of the mediterranean. we have common interests, but we also have to face common challenges such as the fight against terrorism, human trafficking, migration and instability in our southern neighbourhood. on all these fronts we need more joint action. this is why our group welcomes the holding of the seventh eu-egypt association council on 25 july. this has given a further impetus to this partnership and we share the general orientation of the agreed priorities. i am particularly pleased to see that the section on the principles of cooperation refers to the deepening of the political dialogue on democracy and human rights and the need to work with civil society organisations to implement this partnership. both dimensions are very important, as we know that much remains to be done in respect of human rights and civil society participation in egypt. in fact, when we talk to our egyptian interlocutors, they are the first to recognize it. and i think it is essential to continue to work with them to promote human rights and to focus on a constructive approach that will allow us to achieve better results on the ground. for example, an epp group fact-finding mission, which included our colleagues elmar brok and mariya gabriel, was sent to egypt in november 2016, and one of the main messages to our partners was that the union will support all measures aimed at the adoption of international human rights standards in egypt. this is a long-term task which will need to be steadily supported in order to promote a genuine democratic transition in egypt. in this respect, the monitoring and evaluation mechanism to be set up under the partnership will play a key role and it will be necessary to ensure that it is sufficiently staffed to enable us to achieve these objectives.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, egypt is a key partner for the eu and we welcome the first eu-egypt association council after the revolution and the adoption of the partnership priorities for the period 2017-2020. egypt is undergoing a difficult period, but its path towards stability and sustainability is so important. egypt is confronted with a challenging internal situation following the revolution and faces terrorism that continues to strike the country, with all its consequences on people, on tourism and on the economy. we know there are many shortcomings, and yet we know and acknowledge the progress already made in certain areas, including the new parliament; but equally, we have to take note of the many areas where eu-egypt cooperation is of fundamental importance. i mentioned terrorism. there is no doubt that to defeat terrorism we need a close cooperation with all partners, including egypt. in this regard, i welcome the efforts of the president el-sisi to reform islam and to prevent radicalisation, as well as the strong effort to protect christians, which has recently prevented attacks being launched against the christian communities. but let me also add the importance of cooperating with egypt on migration and for regional stability. we praise in particular the efforts of egypt to play its very important broker’s role in palestinian reconciliation. just today we have taken note of the successful talks between the two sides and the fact that the two sides have decided to build up the national consensus government of palestine. it’s an example of what europe can do. (the president cut off the speaker.)
author. – mr president, it has been almost two years since the birth of the paris agreement and almost exactly one year since its entry into force on 4 november 2016. 195 parties have signed up to the agreement to date and 166 of these have already deposited with the un their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to what one might qualify as the most significant multilateral international agreement of the decade. undoubtedly, climate change is one of the most important challenges for humankind. those of us who believe in the science explaining climate change keep on stressing this fact and the associated disastrous consequences for both our present and our future. but we should also act on our beliefs. the paris agreement was a major step, but a lot more needs to be done to ensure that this agreement will deliver on its intentions. we all know in this house from our work on european legislation that if it is hard to agree on a common set of policy design and the numbers, it is even harder to implement them in a meaningful way. and this is where we are with the paris agreement. for the past year, preparatory work has started that will go on well into 2018 laying down the foundation for the implementation of the accord. we are one month away from the start of the 23rd climate conference in bonn, which will be a milestone in the technical work on the implementing rules for the agreement. we expect quite importantly that there will be some clarification on the structure of the 2018 facilitative dialogue. this will be a key opportunity to take stock of progress made towards the agreement’s mitigation goals and to inform the preparation and revision, by 2020, of the parties’ 2030 nationally determined contributions. the regrettable decision by the president of the united states to withdraw his country from the paris agreement will have numerous implications but, most worryingly, it has an immediate impact on climate financing, which is one of the cornerstones for international climate action. the suspension of us contributions to the green climate fund will open up substantially a hole which we have all been working hard to fill. these are very pertinent issues that we look forward to discussing today with both the council and the commission, who will both be sitting at the negotiation table in bonn in 4 weeks’ time. as every year, in line with our commitment to the international climate process, the european parliament will attend the bonn conference and follow the discussion and decisions made there, and through its privileged contacts with parliamentarians from around the world will support the eu position. tomorrow we will be adopting our resolution on the topic, which sets out the vision, concerns, expectations and aspirations of our institution. this will also constitute our mandate for the bonn conference. i am looking forward to a fruitful exchange with all of you this afternoon, as well as much cooperation between our institutions in the run-up to and during the climate negotiations in november.
mr president, commissioner and council, you have unanimous support in this house. all the political groups are saying the same thing, it was said where ryanair went wrong. i think he's challenging us. you can't justify that you canceled dozens of flights, hundreds of thousands of passengers affected because you didn't plan your vacation. it's a disgrace this company. we must find solutions, we cannot fail to see an increase in demand for consumer rights. i am also on the tran committee and the imco committee. me and all the others are sent here by the citizens to defend their rights, all rights, including those of the passengers. this company also operates in my country. in 21 of the flights, right in the city i'm from, citizens of my country were affected. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the council, we must establish measures. enough said here, i don't think we need to argue anymore that this company is mocking us. this is not a management error, this is grand theft and we have to put an end to it. i would like to say one more thing, mr liberadzki said: commissioner, you should know that passenger rights are being violated by other airlines and we must not go back to the situation of ryanair. you have to check in advance.
mr president, the commission’s proposal is the result of efforts and dialogue between the commission and the member states, and it is very balanced and reasonable. the proposal is based on the who definition of endocrine disruptors and it is based on three elements: adverse effect, endocrine activity and causal link. unfortunately, the discussions on endocrine disruptors derive from arguments that are more emotional, and much incomplete and false information has been circulated. the stringent eu regulation framework in place does address endocrine disruption, maybe not as ideally as some of us would want to, but there is no legal vacuum now in europe. as we speak, citizens are not left unprotected. i do not understand the goal of the objection because there is no benefit for health and environment in maintaining the interim criteria. the criteria are based on science and reflect an approach supported by 21 member states, as the commissioner stated earlier. the eu would be a pioneer in this field, and we could inspire other global players in legislating on endocrine disruptors. those colleagues who are now initiating the objection, opting instead to reject the proposal and ask the european commission to come with a new proposal, are either idealistic or are merely engaging in an exercise of rhetoric. it is impossible to come up with a new proposal as soon as possible. it will take some time, maybe years. so let us be reasonable and really work to the benefit of european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on all three reports. these are complex reports, they are technical reports and, even more so, they deserve to be congratulated for having succeeded in going in the direction proposed by the commission, but, of course, to bring improvements. as a member of the tran commission, but also imco and libe, i tried to take into account all three tasks of the commission: consumer protection, data protection, citizens' safety. since i don't have time, i want to take care of the first report and congratulate daniela aiuto. the commission's proposal to amend the directive is welcomed for the increase of quality standards but also for the mutual recognition of ship safety certificates. i support the report, the exceptions to the application of this directive are justified and i support them. the report clarifies the classification of maritime zones according to the risks to ships operating in a particular sea area. because, as i said, i am also a member of the imco committee, i have also looked at this report from the perspective of passenger protection. i think that safety standards should be applied by all member states. for specific local approaches, for example exemption of vessels from certain requirements, the member state has to notify the commission. safety and living and working conditions on board are extremely important and these three reports bring about an improvement in safety and ultimately in living and working on board.
mr president, schengen is the largest free travel area in the world and it is one of the major achievements of the european union. it is an achievement that should be preserved, notably by including all member states that wish to be integrated, if they already fulfil the criteria. unity is the most important element of the future of our union. the union today faces common cross-border challenges and threats, and it is of the utmost importance further to enhance police and judicial cooperation and to protect the external border of the union more effectively. therefore, i welcome the commission communication last week, drawing conclusions from the implementation of the ‘back to schengen’ road map and proposing new steps for strengthening the schengen area. if we want to strengthen the schengen area and to enhance security cooperation and mutual trust between member states, then it is more important than ever to open the schengen area to bulgaria and romania immediately, as the commission had proposed, and to croatia once it has met all the criteria. i call on the council to act immediately on this proposal. moreover, real progress in the fight against terrorism can be achieved only by working together towards effective security and defence cooperation and a union in which both the external and internal dimensions are important. therefore, i call for the immediate implementation of a consistent package for permanent structured cooperation (pesco).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, you have spoken about migration, about responsibility, about securing the schengen borders, but what do you think about countries like romania and bulgaria, croatia, which are not in schengen but have the same responsibilities towards migration? do you not think it is necessary for the council to decide once for these states which have the same treaty, the same responsibilities, but not the same rights? how can we secure the schengen borders? and who secures the other countries, and how?
in writing. the european commission has committed itself to present the new financial framework 2021-2027 in may 2018. only in this way will it be possible to adopt this financial framework before the new elections to the european parliament in june 2019 and to ensure that all the regulations necessary for the implementation of european programmes and projects are well prepared from the first year of 2021. this financial framework should already encompass the effect of decisions on the future of the european union. it is therefore important that the member states also use this european council to prepare these decisions, which will be adopted in the first quarter of next year.
madam president, i want to congratulate the rapporteur and say that i supported this report because i believe that data protection is a priority and i think that the way in which this was covered in the report should have been voted on. and i hope it's enforced because oftentimes, we have problems not with regulation, not with the emergence of a new law, but with enforcement. it is important that the data be deleted, as was stated in the report, and in fact the report went along with the commission's proposal, it was a technical report, and i thank those who contributed. i have tabled amendments and supported this report, considering that we need to have clarity on data protection on board ships.
mr president, the financial crisis and the unsustainable public debt crisis have reminded us that there is no substitute for budgetary discipline, fiscal discipline. all those who thought they could sustain a well-being through continuous indebtedness were awakened to reality by the crises we have been through, and the people who suffered the most were the ordinary people, the pensioners, people in both the public and private sectors. greece's example is an edifying one. greece, after years of suffering, has put its house in order and is now seeing positive results. that's why it's necessary that this fiscal compact becomes the rule in european union law, because before you think about fiscal capacity, solidarity, you have to be aware that you have to follow the rules on budgetary discipline, fiscal discipline, and then if you follow these rules, think about solidarity within the european union. we therefore await the commission's proposals in december on the transposition of the fiscal compact into european law.
mr president, fiscal discipline is obviously an essential tool for the success of a union of 27 member states which share a common single market and a common currency. only by maintaining a balanced budget can a country increase its resilience in order to face an economic downturn or a financial crisis. fiscal rules make our economy stronger not weaker. having a balanced budget means having more fiscal space when it is needed. it means having funds available to implement structural reforms, not only in bad times but also in good times. the time to repair the roof is always when the sun is shining. my country, romania, has been part of the fiscal compact since the beginning. joining it was the correct decision. let me explain briefly why. the actions of the current government of the country make clear why the fiscal compact is necessary and why it protects our citizens from what is sometimes irresponsible governance at national level. in romania, the debt-to-gdp ratio has increased by 4 percentage points from 37% to 41% of gdp in less than two years, and structural deficit has increased from 0.6% of gdp to more than 3%. due to the significant deviations from the budgetary medium-term objective, the commission issued a warning, and the council followed. in the case of any country that does not comply with the provisions, the commission or any other country can take the case to the court of justice. the last step is the imposition of sanctions. these current developments, in any member state, highlight the importance of respecting eu fiscal rules and the importance of imposing them on governments that sometimes work only for short-term objectives. otherwise, who will carry the burden of the increasing deficit and debt in any member state? certainly not the current government which just happens to be in office and which will have been voted out by the time the debt comes to maturity. then it will be the younger generations who will have to shoulder this debt and who will have fewer options for the future than the previous generations.
mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, thank you for your report. i think it's a very thorough report. as regards the report on the protection of the union's financial interests, there is an improvement compared to the previous year: 15% fewer irregularities, 8% less in amount, but the amount is still quite large, over two billion. obviously, the work of punishment, of identifying problems, is important, but at the same time, it is also important, i think, the work of prevention. and for that we have to work very hard on the regulations. there is already an attempt at simplification through the changes made to the financial regulation, but i think that the court, through a special report, can also think about other instruments, because having the same type of regulations, the same rules in all the regulations for all the funds would be a very good thing, having cost standards set in each member state, trying, perhaps, to have the public procurement directive be turned into a regulation and then an electronic activity - everything from the application, to the evaluation, to the approval, to the prosecution, to be done electronically - i think that would bring very great benefits. i'll make a few such suggestions in my report.
mr president, the court of auditors is undoubtedly one of the most important institutions at european level. however, a few observations are worth making in the context of the present report. i therefore believe that the court of auditors and the other european institutions, but above all the national authorities in the member states, should be concerned with the implementation of uniform and simplified procedures at european union level for spending public money. defining errors is extremely important. not every error must lead to the suspension of payments to beneficiaries, since preventing such errors from occurring requires strengthening the court's guidance and coordination role before the control role. a uniform approach to legislation at union level is absolutely necessary so that, whether in bucharest, prague or rome, there is the same interpretation of a legal rule. it is unacceptable to have today a certain conduct that is incriminated as an offence in romania, but at the same time represents a fair and legal approach in other states. national audit and regulatory authorities should be expressly prohibited from adding cross-compliance beyond european rules, as this always generates excessive red tape. changing procedures during the implementation of a european project is another limiting factor for beneficiaries of eu funds. however, i am convinced that good cooperation between european and national authorities can make the absorption of european funds more fluid.
mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, of course, and i want to congratulate you. i think we should criticize when we should criticize and congratulate when things are good. on the other hand, i come from a private environment and i know very clearly that prevention is better than detection, which you do, and it's not your fault, you do notice some mistakes. i think that the european and national system and regulations must provide for more rigorous ex ante control, because you can no longer correct, possibly help us for the next period. then, it said here, i think it's very important, commissioner, that you look at the public procurement law. i've been an entrepreneur, i've accessed european funds, i've already amended the public procurement directive, but it's not working. i'm telling you, there's a chance of mistakes being made. also, regulations - an entrepreneur, an sme, if he wants to take european funds on different axes, has different procedures. the possibility of error is increasing and i believe that if you come up with additional measures and, in particular, commissioner, - i am addressing you now because the court of auditors can certainly find new control mechanisms - we must have uniform procedures in the european union, simplified - bureaucracy costs and can also lead to error.
mr president, the discharge exercise is highly important to the european parliament, and it must be carried out with the utmost political commitment and objectiveness, while putting at the centre and safeguarding the financial interests of the european union’s citizens. with regard to the court of auditors annual report 2016, i am glad that sustained efforts have been taken which generated an improvement in the estimated level of error in payments made from the eu budget, with a decrease from 4.4% to 3.1%. furthermore, pertaining to the level of error, i am particularly glad to see that a slight decrease has been recorded in the area of european development funds as well. finally, i believe that while efforts have been mobilised, there is still scope for improvement, for instance, further action should be oriented towards the way in which the european union’s added value could be measured.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to be in the parliament today and, believe me, that is not just a courtesy phrase. just before the summer break, after long and extremely complex negotiations, the council reached a political agreement to set up the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) as an enhanced cooperation, and i am happy that 20 member states have already expressed their agreement to bring the protection of financial interests to an entirely new level through the establishment of a new union body. the eppo will considerably step up the current efforts to fight crimes against the eu budget such as fraud, corruption, money laundering or vat fraud, since its work will be more effective, especially as regards cross—border criminality; more criminals will be put behind bars; more money will be recovered; and more money will be put to the right use. the regulation provides a robust set of procedural rights of suspects and accused persons. the eppo will become the centrepiece of a new system, joining together national law enforcement, judicial authorities and eu actors such as olaf, eurojust and europol. it will be to the benefit of the eu as a whole, the member states and european taxpayers. criminal investigations are essential to counter the most serious forms of abuse against the eu budget. the eppo will carry out this task on the basis of a truly european investigation and prosecution policy. olaf will closely cooperate with the eppo to ensure complementarity of their respective mandates. the missions of the eppo and olaf are clearly defined. strong energies will need to be created in order to allow both the eppo and olaf to perform their tasks in the most efficient and productive manner. there will be no duplication of work. on the contrary, i believe that the result will be a significant enhancement of our capacity to tackle fraud. the commission has just transmitted, on 2 october, the evaluation of the olaf regulation and is analysing the need to adapt the olaf regulation to ensure that olaf can cooperate smoothly with the eppo and has the tools it needs to fulfil its mandate. also, eurojust will continue to play an important role as a crime fighter in europe, focusing more on other forms, such as the trafficking of human beings or drugs. i am therefore pleased to see that you are advancing well on the eurojust reform under the leadership of the rapporteur, mr voss. we would not be here today without the parliament’s strong support. i would particularly like to thank the parliament’s successive rapporteurs on the eppo, mr iacolino, ms macovei, ms matera, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs, for their tireless efforts for a strong, independent and efficient eppo. i would, of course, also like to thank ms reding for her efforts, because i took over the eppo from her in a very good condition, ready to be finalised. i would also like to thank ms grässle and mr lópez aguilar for their crucial work, in particular on the anti-fraud directive, which included serious cross—border vat fraud in the scope of the material competence of the eppo. the eppo and the anti-fraud directive are two sides of the same coin. they are constitutive parts in our joint efforts to better fight crimes affecting the eu budget. the parliament made its voice heard in key moments during the negotiations and improved many important aspects of the regulation. for instance, you have ensured a clear delineation of competences between the eppo and the other european actors; helped to design appointment procedures and introduce permanent chambers which guarantee the eppo’s independence; ensured a robust judicial review of the eppo’s procedural acts, or made sure that, from the beginning, the eppo can cooperate on a solid basis with non—participating member states. but the parliament’s involvement does not stop here. you will have your say in the selection process of the european chief prosecutor, as well as in ensuring the general political accountability of the eppo’s activities, and you will have a decisive say on its budget. i have no doubt that this house will continue to support the eppo in its operations. as president juncker said in his state of the union speech, there is a strong case for tasking the new european public prosecutor’s office with prosecuting cross—border terrorist crimes and, as announced in the letter of intent, the commission will issue, in the next year, a 2025 perspective – a communication on a possible extension of the tasks of the new european public prosecutor’s office to include the fight against terrorism on the basis of article 86/4 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the parliament will debate this question in due course. i am convinced that the members states that can participate in the eppo but are still missing will soon see that this is a game changer and will join. we will welcome them with open arms – the sooner the better, and they know it from me. your vote tomorrow will allow the council to move to the final adoption of the regulation at next week’s justice council, and it will allow the commission to start setting up the eppo so that, by 2020, the first cases can be investigated and prosecuted. i would like to thank you for your support and to encourage you to give a strong consent to the eppo regulation presented to you.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, tomorrow we will vote on the rules of procedure of the european public prosecutor's office. we have negotiated with the justice and home affairs ministers of the member states for a long time, precisely because we wanted a strong, independent european public prosecutor's office with a clear mission and investigative powers that would allow us to investigate anywhere in the union. after almost three years of negotiations, the european public prosecutor's office will finally be established. in short, cases of cross-border fraud with european money and some terrorist crimes will be investigated from start to finish, including completed by referral to court, by the european public prosecutor's office, and in cases of conviction, of course, the money stolen from our pockets will be confiscated. the fraud in the european union, i remind you, is 500 million euros every year. the european prosecutor will then collect evidence from each member state involved in cross-border fraud. for searches, for example, in romania, the romanian law will be followed, for interceptions in germany, the german law, for hearings or other investigations in other member states the law of those member states will be followed. all of this evidence taken in different states will, however, be admissible and valid in the court that will hear the case, the cross-border fraud case. this is very important and it will make all these cases be investigated and judged much faster. the european prosecutor will have priority jurisdiction over all offences, including the so-called vat carousel. for offences involving european funds, minimum penalties are provided, i.e. judges cannot sentence to less than the maximum of years laid down in the directive against fraud involving european funds.
madam president, please. there is no doubt that the eu budget and its financial interests need to be better protected, as there are certainly instances of structural funds being used in a way that is contrary to the law, i.e. fraudulent. under the principle of subsidiarity, this is of course the responsibility of the national prosecutor's offices, but in many cases it is a cross-border fraud, which the european public prosecutor's office will be able to help to investigate. the eppo should be open to all member states that have not yet joined the eppo, including those that have not yet done so. therefore, we must clearly reject the assumptions that only those member states that join this enhanced cooperation will be able to benefit from cohesion funds after 2020. the efficiency, impartiality and professionalism of the prosecutors of the newly created institution could convince those who are not involved that joining the institution would be beneficial for them. i do not think that proposals like this, even if they take the form of a press release, will contribute to increasing the cohesion of european states or to strengthening the trust of european citizens in the eu. this requires quite different measures, such as the effective work of the european public prosecutor's office, which can really ensure that citizens are assured that member states are handling the resources of the common budget responsibly. in that case, i have no doubt that the states currently absent will also consider joining.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european public prosecutor's office, as a separate institution, has certainly emerged out of necessity, out of evasion, out of cross-border evasion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that the european public prosecutor's office is an institution which must be very clearly defined as the tasks of olaf, eurojust and europol, and this has been said. i think, commissioner, that the difficult part starts now, because it certainly took many, many years to convince the states. not all states are convinced. i think it's very difficult to have this enhanced cooperation when seven countries are not participating. what happens at the borders of those states? i think it is very important to clearly define the competences of the european public prosecutor's office. i don't think we should put everything on them, because then what are the other institutions doing? there must be cooperation with the national courts, but i cannot help asking a question, commissioner: if we are talking about enhanced cooperation, what do we do with the responsibility of the magistrates, which, we were told, is a matter of subsidiarity? however, we must also have strengthened cooperation here - with regard to the magistrates.
in writing. the prosecution of offences against the european budget is the exclusive competence of the member states and there is no european union authority in this area. this regulation will give up member states' national sovereignty in the field of investigation and prosecution of offences affecting the financial interests of the union, provided that they are already obliged by the treaty (article 325) to protect the financial interests of the european union in the same way as national financial interests. the european prosecutor will change the mode of cooperation, so far horizontal, between the competent authorities of the member states into a vertical one, which implies the surrender of sovereignty. i doubt the contribution of such a body (new, complex, multi-layered) to the effectiveness of the investigation and punishment of crimes. moreover, the costs of creating such an institution outweigh any benefits. moreover, there are already institutions with competences in judicial cooperation at european level, and the creation of a new institution (too complex and too costly) will affect the already existing institutions and the fight against fraud in general. i believe that this project, which has been under negotiation for so many years, is just another attempt by the commission to invade the competences of the member states and to super-nationalize.
mr president, commissioner, i want to appreciate the question put by my colleagues and i think we need to understand it correctly. this is about safety and security, and there's a complex of factors: the quality of the roads, the infrastructure, unattended parking, non-compliance with regulations, because, look, there are states that fine drivers who sleep in the cab to guard their cargo and are attacked or find the next day, if they leave, the truck occupied by another person; violate the regulation and fine these drivers. here we have economic effects, obviously, insurance increases, some insurance companies don't want to insure carriers and drivers. i met with transport associations, with drivers, all complaining about the extraordinary precarious situation of transport safety in terms of guarded parking lots, in terms of lack of control, because, as i said here, we must also have control at the border. but we have a gang of criminals, we were talking about earlier, commissioner of the european public prosecutor's office, who are simply stealing from trucks. so here we need the support of the european commission, not just the national authorities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european statistics show that on the one hand the number of women in prison is increasing at a faster rate than that of men and on the other hand the rate of recidivism and return to prison can exceed 50% within 5 years of release from prison. i believe it is beneficial for the european union to cooperate with the member states to find common solutions at european level on the development of educational and social support for the preparation of prisoners for release, as well as socio-judicial supervision after detention, to allow for better management of the sentence, successful social reintegration and a reduction in the risk of recidivism. in addition, the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's human rights policy and the implementation of the union's human rights policy, including the implementation of the union's human rights policy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's human rights policy. on the other hand, it is necessary to avoid situations where prisoners are placed in prisons scattered across the territory and to find solutions that allow prisoners who are far from home to be moved closer to home, in order to avoid violating article 8 of the european convention on human rights, namely the right to respect for private and family life. last but not least, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the approach she has taken in this report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that this is a necessary report, that i support it and that i will vote in favour of it. we need a change of attitude, there is an excess of preventive arrests, there is a lack of responsibility of magistrates who, without sufficient evidence, take citizens into preventive detention. this is proven, in fact, by the fact that many people who are detained preventively, later, have no punishment and win at the echr and empty national budgets. i'm sorry that some colleagues throw words and leave. the epp colleague accuses romania of not taking its prisoners. it's a decision of the european court of justice, but why other countries, like the uk, a recent example, host a romanian fugitive, even though romania wants him in the country to be tried. there are two sides to this, and if it were the responsibility of the magistrates, we could find the best solutions. and we need programs to reintegrate these people into society after they get out of prison, not, as a colleague said, that we help the inmates. we're helping society to not be attacked by these people who are not integrated into society after they've served their time.
mr president, prison conditions and prison overcrowding are critical issues in many of our member states. there really are too many people in detention facilities who reoffend and turn to more serious crime after being released. too many commit suicide. too many mentally ill people are locked in facilities that are not appropriate for their condition and too many of our young turn to violent extremism upon their release. often detention in prison is the starting point of a vicious circle of imprisonment and crime. this is why i welcome the report’s call for improved prison conditions and dissemination of good practices and alternative punishments, individual social care of prisoners and insistence on social reintegration. decreasing crime and increasing social cohesion takes more than improving conditions in prisons. the overarching aim should be to have a penal, educational and social paradigm shift, to turn away from punishment and to insist on the social rehabilitation and reintegration of the convicted. it would be nice to study the case of japan and how they succeeded.
mr president, the european union and the international community do not recognise the illegal annexation of crimea and continue to condemn the violation of international law, as well as the oppressive acts that represent a clear infringement of the human, civil, political and cultural rights of crimean tatars and other crimean freedom fighters. russia, as the occupying power of crimea, has to respect international law. at the same time, i call on the commission to look thoroughly at and to address the situation in ukraine, where recently the ukrainian authorities took measures against the rights of national minorities in ukraine. this is a terrible situation. while all of us here are fighting for the rights of ukrainians in crimea, ukraine is taking measures against the national minorities in ukraine, forbidding their right to learn in their mother tongue. this situation has to be addressed as well.
mr president what has been happening in crimea in recent months and years is a good example of the retaliation that a national minority can expect when the holder of political power describes it as an enemy. we have examples of this in european history, and fortunately, the methods used in crimea today would be unthinkable in the european union. with a question. this does not mean, however, that national minorities are perfectly satisfied with their situation in the eu; on the contrary, there is a clear need for the eu institutions to address the special situation of some 60 million eu citizens who belong to a national or linguistic minority in the eu. the eu must help to open a dialogue between the majority and the minority, otherwise we will always condemn violations outside the eu and ignore our own problems. when the situation becomes too tense, we will call for dialogue, as in the case of catalonia. perhaps it would be better to have a dialogue before the issues are swept under the carpet, before the positions become rigid and the consequences for the eu as a whole.
in writing. – the russian occupation of the ukrainian crimean peninsula has inflicted grave human rights violations, especially concerning the rights of journalists and issues pertaining to freedom of speech. crimean leaders, including akhtem chiygoz and ilmi umerov, are being prosecuted for opposing russia’s annexation of crimea. the same is true for journalists, like mykola semena, who has been a vocal critic of russia’s occupation and suggested that ukraine should have blockaded the peninsula. he was convicted of acting against the ‘territorial integrity of the russian federation’, leaving him with a two-year suspended sentence and three-year ban on public activities. while semena does not have to serve a prison sentence, he is banned from public activities, including journalism, which takes away his freedom of speech and expression. if he violates this ban, he will be imprisoned by the russian authorities. ukrainian officials are working to bring semena back to the ukraine. there is a dire need to hold russia accountable for their violations of human rights and to bring justice for the victims of these violations.
, on behalf of the epp group. mr president, under the presidency of abdullah yameen, the maldives is in the process of changing from a regime in the process of democratization to an authoritarian regime. all the signs are there: freedom of expression severely challenged, journalists threatened with death, the judicial system increasingly controlled by the government. the example of the suspension of one third of the country's lawyers is, in this context, only the latest sign. the government is doing everything to destroy the political opposition, including by occupying the parliamentary stage militarily to prevent votes that do not suit it. in these circumstances, i support the introduction of individual sanctions against all those who cause these human rights violations. i think that these sanctions should not be lifted until all political prisoners are released, but also until a minimum democratic framework is restored so that the next elections can take place freely.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the draft regulation laying down the rules on fertilising products bearing european labels aims to improve the existing legislation in this field. let me give you some of the reasons why i believed in this report. i would like to point out first of all that this regulation is part of the commission's proposal on the circular economy. it will have a positive impact on all eu countries, and the benefits will be felt in a number of areas of activity. the economic sector, first of all, is a good engine by which the industry is stimulated to become more competitive. among the notable objectives of this legislative framework is that it will extend the scope of fertilising products to those derived from secondary raw materials. the administrative burden on producers will be reduced and labelling will be clearer and more comprehensive. on the other hand, the consumer, the one we want to protect, will have safer products. we want the presence of heavy metals and contaminants in fertilising products to be within limits that do not endanger human health. i would like to emphasise that as rapporteur i have made efforts to achieve the widest possible consensus, despite the contradictory positions that persist between the countries of the european union on this issue. it is our duty to provide the european consumer with safe food at a reasonable price. i would also like to review the main provisions of the proposal, namely that the proposal will allow all fertilising products, including those derived from bio-waste and recycled nutrients, to benefit from the ce marking, which ensures free movement in the single market. new harmonised requirements for all ce marked fertilising products with regard to quality, safety and labelling will be introduced. we are also talking about new rules on the free movement of all ce marked fertilisers. optional harmonisation will be maintained; for example, a manufacturer who does not want his product to bear the ce marking but has unlimited access to the whole of the eu single market can opt for compliance with national rules, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i consulted with representatives of national delegations and political groups, and spoke with representatives of the chemical fertiliser industry in the member states, as well as in some countries exporting raw materials to the european union. on tuesday, you are called to vote on several proposals for maximum permitted cadmium limits. please note the need for regulation as urgent as possible in this area, and the need for the industry to have the time to adapt to new standards. dear colleagues, we have no right to close factories overnight, to leave thousands of people without work. we have no right to condemn european farmers to buy fertilisers at prices that are detrimental to them. but we cannot allow the soil and, by implication, european agriculture to continue to develop in a chaotic and unsustainable way, with risks to our safety and that of other consumers. that is why i think it is necessary to establish, as soon as the future regulation comes into force, a precise level of cadmium permitted. we also need to be aware that a reasonable implementation interval is needed. i believe in the professionalism of my colleagues and i want us to harmonize our positions so that we can present ourselves with a head high in front of our own voters. ladies and gentlemen, beyond this point, on which i know many of you will be commenting later, i would like to point out that the report is largely the result of the work done by the previous holder of the file, mrs gáll-pelcz, up to the moment she left the european parliament. i thank him for his effort. i also thank the colleagues who contributed with suggestions and proposals, in particular mr andreas schwab, for his substantial contribution as epp coordinator in the committee on the internal market. i would like to conclude by appealing to your support, especially since negotiations with the european council will follow. we need, from their point of view, a strong mandate from the european parliament. thank you. thank you.
mr president, we are discussing today a proposal for european legislation that the european union fertiliser market needs. the problem that has raised serious concern, however, is the cadmium content which has been proposed by the commission at sixty milligrams per kilogram. my colleagues have expressed doubts about the existence of a sound scientific basis for the effect of this limit on human health. the commission proposal, as it stands, has two negative consequences. first, plants importing phosphates from north africa, including romania, do not have the technology to reduce cadmium content. and this is not just about a simple technological improvement. we have discussed with the romanian plant: reducing the cadmium content means changing the technological lines in that plant completely. secondly, the second negative consequence is that it distorts competition in the eu economy, in the phosphate fertiliser market, in the sense that the application of this cadmium limit will completely drive out of the market the factories using the north african raw material. so i think any measure here has to be accompanied by a sufficient number of years of transition to have scientific research that produces results in this area. thank you. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk about this regulation, and it certainly is worthwhile, it is an extremely important regulation. we have stuck to these percentages, but as the rapporteur and other colleagues have shown, there are improvements through this regulation for the fertiliser market, for the circular economy. but i would like to stress here that unfortunately the commission has not included everything that should have been included in the estimate, for example, what impact would it have on jobs? he said nothing about a study done at the university of the netherlands in 2016 - and the findings of that study are relevant, but they are totally opposed to the arguments used by the commission. i, as an imco member, of course, want whatever we vote on here to be very well balanced between consumer protection and supporting industry. of course, people's health is important, but deindustrialization continues. i can't help but say that, unfortunately, if you set this ambitious percentage... we're not talking about ambition here, we're talking about results, technological research, and we can't impose a threshold that industry can't cross. that's why i'm going to support the no-drop proposal and an 80 milligram proposal.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this dossier and on the way she has handled the sensitivity of this subject. this initiative does indeed lead to the opening of the single market to the free movement of fertilisers and in particular encourages the use of fertilisers from recycled and organic materials, brings health-safe products and also safety standards, higher quality, safety and greater clarity in labelling. but the discussions must continue, because there are still discrepancies both at european level and between the european union and the countries from which we import agricultural products or finished products. we want the union to be ambitious, as has been well said, but at the same time we must also take account of the reality in countries outside the eu and especially in the mercosur region, because these discrepancies only create unfair competition within the union and this will harm european farmers.
member of the commission. other mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this debate. i'll start with a clarification, dear marc, in response to your remarks. the commission does not expect and does not intend to reopen the 'nitrates' directive with this proposal, i want to be clear on this point. i am confident that the fertiliser products regulation will be really a major contribution to the circular economy in europe. it will help to turn waste management challenges into economic opportunities for farmers, innovative european technology providers, and manufacturers. it will help us to put more reliance on domestic sources over raw materials that are critical to our agro-industry and it will release agro-chemical manufacturers from many of the regulatory constraints that they are under today. but we must make sure that this new framework does not create new risks. instead, the regulation must hold manufacturers to account for the safety of their agrochemicals. at the end of the day, the fertilisers market is a global commodity market, and european manufacturers can compete by quickly adjusting to the high level of protection that european farmers and citizens rightly expect. i look forward to your continued support and to constructive discussions on how to strike the right balance.
the reporter. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i have listened with great interest to everything that has been said here today and i want to assure you that i will take all the recommendations into account. the important thing now is that the result tomorrow is a good one and, in the negotiations, as i said, i will take this into account. my role is to try to find common ground between member states which have different positions on the limitation of cadmium levels, which is a hot topic in this dossier.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 24 october 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the offences and sanctions applicable to illicit drug trafficking [10537/1/2017 - c8-0325/2017 - 2013/0304 (cod)) by the rapporteur, teresa jiménez-becerril barrio (a8-0317/2017), and the report by michał boni, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1920/2006 as regards the exchange of information, the early warning system and the risk assessment procedure for new psychoactive substances [com (2016) 0547 - c8-0351/2016 - 2016/0261 (cod)) (a8-0359/2016) ]
member of the commission. – mr president, our debate today is of great importance for our society, and especially our youth, who are our future. none of us here today can ignore this longstanding and continuously evolving threat affecting, directly or indirectly, the lives of millions of citizens in europe. more than 93 million europeans have tried an illicit drug in their lives. overdose deaths continue to rise. as the commissioner responsible, i am fully committed to the fight against this threat, which cuts across all generations. despite, as you know, my particularly heavy obligations and responsibilities in tackling the migration crisis and threats to our security, the fight against drugs – i can assure you – is a key priority for me. today we are proving once more that europe is not just about numbers. europe has a social face, it cares about those in need and it works hard to crack down on unscrupulous criminal networks and their unethical businesses. drugs is one of these. i would like warmly to welcome the successful conclusion, after four years, of the intense and demanding interinstitutional negotiations on the new psychoactive substances package. this result would not have been possible without the great contribution of the two rapporteurs, teresa jiménez-becerril barrio and michal boni. i would like to thank both of them personally for their constant efforts and support, and their commitment. in addition to traditional illicit drugs, the number of new and very harmful substances being placed on the european market, often as legal alternatives, is dramatically increasing. our european drugs agency is currently monitoring more than 620 new psychoactive substances that cause severe health problems or even death. in fact, one new psychoactive substance is detected every week. once the new legislation enters into force, we will leave behind lengthy procedures and will put in place an effective and efficient tool to tackle harmful new psychoactive substances. information exchanges will improve and the role of the european drugs agency will be enhanced, including by working hand-in-hand with europol. so far, the european union has banned 19 new psychoactive substances and eight more are in the process of being banned. i would like to thank you in advance for adopting your opinion tomorrow on a concrete case of a very dangerous new psychoactive substance, furanylfentanyl, which must be made subject to control measures. today’s package is part of a wider, comprehensive approach that this commission has been working on for the past three years, in the context of the eu drugs strategy, in order to support member states’ efforts in the fight against drugs. in july, the council adopted the eu drugs action plan for the period 2017 to 2020, on the basis of my proposal. this action plan enhances and updates existing actions, while it also identifies new priority areas such as online awareness-raising activities, targeting young people in particular, and exploring the potential connection between drug trafficking and the financing of terrorist groups, migrant smuggling and trafficking in human beings. we are also working very actively on the new policy cycle on organised and serious crime, towards disrupting activities related to drug production, trafficking and distribution in the european union. the eu is also in the lead in the worldwide fight against drugs, together with its global partners. for the first time, the union is speaking with one voice on drugs-related issues in international forums. we hope this will also be the case at the next meeting of the united nations commission on narcotic drugs. obviously our fight against drugs is not finished with this legislation, but today we are sending a clear and strong message about our decisiveness and readiness to tackle new and very dangerous threats to our society. we must and we will continue our efforts in close and continuing cooperation with this house, the member states and stakeholders. i am looking forward to the debate today and i thank you for the attention you are giving to european drugs policy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate ms jiménez-becerril barrio and mr boni on their very good reports. as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation as regards information exchange, early warning systems and risk assessment, i confronted a harsh reality. there has been a rapid increase in the past years in the number and type of new psychoactive substances available and launched on the european drug market, with more than 600 substances being monitored by the european monitoring centre for drugs. of even more concern than this is the unprecedented increase in substance use among young people, which is really very worrying. i have stated, in the environment committee opinion, that the rapid growth of the market in these novel products makes it necessary to enhance monitoring and early warning systems so as to assess health, safety and social risks, in order to develop responses. member states need to provide, without undue delay, all available information on detection and identification, use and patterns of use, prevalence of use, potential as well as identified risks and commercial, as well as medical and scientific, use of these substances.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the debate so far, it was necessary to come up with such a proposal. the commission is very good at coming up with such a proposal. i think the statistics are what motivate this. over the past decade, there has been a massive increase in new psychoactive substances both globally and in europe. and unfortunately, there's no sign of slowing down. in the last five years, 70% of new substances put on the market have been discovered. there is a clear need for action by the european union on new psychoactive substances. member states individually cannot control the problems caused by the spread of new substances. uncoordinated national actions in this area can produce negative domino effects, such as the movement of harmful substances from one member state to another. criminal groups could take advantage of this situation and the worst thing is that young people are attracted here. young people are the most vulnerable to the trap. clearly, there is a need for better cooperation, for information exchange between the european drugs monitoring centre, europol and the european medicines agency, but there is also a need for concern for the education of young people.
in writing. – it is estimated in official eu reports that in europe there is a cocaine market of about 124 tonnes, worth about usd 34 billion, an increased use of narcotic drugs and higher health risks. it is clear that the criminal networks behind the illicit drug traffic demonstrate a resilient ability to adapt and diverge their modus operandi in order to make a widespread of drug use. in the cyclical search for drug supply and trafficking, criminal acts vary from funding with illicit capital to use of the latest technology to avoid being intercepted, and finally to money laundering. therefore, in order to combat illicit drug trafficking, the following actions are imperative: increase the criminal penalties; implement harsher laws for selling and buying drugs; and enhance international cooperation between authorities on drug trafficking, money laundering and tax evasion. i am confident that as we move forward by increasing international cooperation and by raising awareness of the health risks and legal consequences for the illicit drug trafficking, we will succeed in the field of illicit drug trafficking.
in writing. in recent years, whistleblowers from within public institutions or companies have helped to uncover many frauds or illegal behaviour. but whistleblowers need to be protected from possible abuse. unfortunately, the protection offered, if any, is still very insufficient and too fragmented to create a coherent framework in the european union. the protection of confidentiality should be ensured and a reversal of the burden of proof should be introduced; at the same time, provisions should be introduced on financial, psychological support and compensation. however, it is essential that the reporting is well defined so that individuals seeking personal revenge or promotion do not use this tool for unethical purposes.
in writing. the austerity measures that have dominated european economic policy in recent years have led to economic recession, rising unemployment and reduced job opportunities for many european citizens. i believe that member states and the commission need updated figures on income and living conditions in eu countries, which also take into account national specificities, in order to implement a reference budget and a minimum income at european level, used to better combat poverty and test the robustness of the level of minimum income and the threshold mentioned, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. as such, i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to develop a european concept of common objectives for national minimum income systems in order to create a level playing field between member states. this would be useful if the commission were to carry out an impact assessment of minimum income systems in the european union, with regular monitoring and reporting with a view to future action. in addition, when targeting minimum income schemes, member states should take into account the poverty risk threshold set by eurostat at 60% of the equivalent national disposable income (after social transfers), together with other indicators.
in writing. poverty and social exclusion, the causes and duration of which do not depend on the will of the people who experience them, constitute degradations of human dignity and violations of fundamental human rights. according to eurostat, in 2016, in the 28 member states of the european union, 23.4% of the population, or 117.5 million people, were at risk of poverty and social exclusion, a level almost similar to that before the crisis (2008). it is well known that one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to lift at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion in the eu by 2020. however, international organisations (imf) have imposed extremely restrictive budgetary austerity policies on some member states, forcing substantial cuts in spending in fundamental areas such as education, health, justice, culture and social aid and services. such policy choices have led to a sharp increase in poverty and social exclusion. as such, we agree that only a prosperous economy with low unemployment, with minimum income systems is the most effective tool for fighting poverty.
mr president, youth unemployment is a particularly worrying phenomenon. from the perspective of the wider economy it can have long-lasting effects on productivity and growth. from the perspective of individuals it can have the effect of excluding young people from the labour market for an extended period of time, which in turn can affect their job prospects for life. considering that youth unemployment in the eu reached an alarming high of 23.8% in 2013, i am convinced that we were right to prioritise this particular segment of the labour market. i also believe that the recent fall in unemployment rates was due in part to the youth guarantee, its success depending on national factors such as implementation capacity. although reduced, the youth unemployment rate still remains a concern that needs our particular attention. at the same time, however, we should not lose sight of the issue of general unemployment and the structural reforms needed to efficiently deal with it.
while the fight against hate speech online has recently caused serious difficulties for authorities around the world, incitement against the hungarian minority in romania has become a regular feature in printed newspapers and audiovisual media. these messages that disparage hungarians, ignore facts and incite ethnic hatred can be heard with impunity in the romanian media, from the mouths of widely known television presenters, journalists or even well-known personalities in academic life. the phenomenon has now taken hold in political life, effectively paralysing the already-flawed and partial dialogue between the majority and the minority. the social effects are clear, surveys show that the rejection of the hungarian minority is growing, and no one in the romanian political elite is speaking out against the phenomenon. next year, he wants to celebrate the 100th anniversary of romania's existence, and so far, however, only instructive or downright hostile messages have been sent to the one and a half million hungarians who have lived in this country for a century.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last year, on 7 july, here in strasbourg, i proposed that, in the post-brexit context, we take a first step together towards consolidating a homogeneous europe of 27 by rethinking the distribution of the union's institutions in the territory. at that time, i made known to you my intention to initiate and support the relocation of the european medicines agency from london to bucharest. today i stand before you and i tell you: my colleagues in the romanian government have prepared one of the best offers for the relocation of the ema. i invite you and the decision-makers on the relocation of the ema to look objectively at romania's offer and together come up with the right solution for relocating the agency to bucharest. the relocation of the ema to romania could be the first real signal of european union cohesion, but also a political signal equally firm in the direction of combating the idea that the members of the european union are equal only on paper. the relocation of the ema is not just an administrative act generated by the outcome of brexit, but is first and foremost a decision with a wide political connotation, the consequences of which will be seen later.
blue-card question. – taking into consideration the importance of turkey for the european union’s security and stability, do you not think it is better to cooperate, to have cooperation of some kind with turkey instead of having turkey as an enemy, or as a foe, of the european union? do you not think it is better to cooperate with turkey?
madam president, the eu’s security and defence is not only pesco, but pesco is certainly an essential element of today’s european security and defence and is a powerful tool to help in the long path towards truly integrated european defence. this is why we strongly welcome what we hope can be considered a promise that, by the end of this year, pesco will become a reality. until recently, the logic of national sovereignty prevailed over the logic of integration in the defence field, but in the current circumstances the eu can no longer afford this. now that all the necessary work has been done to prepare the framework for pesco, it is time for the member states to take the final step and notify their readiness to take part in permanent structured cooperation. as i will never stop repeating, we are well aware that some member states are more ready and more capable of joining pesco from the outset, but that must not prevent the others from joining as soon as they are ready, on the basis of the same predetermined criteria applying to all forms of enhanced cooperation. accordingly, i will invite the national parliaments, firstly, to debate and follow the implementation of the common security and defence policy and pesco with a view to defining space for further progress on integration. secondly, i will invite the european parliament to strengthen its partnership and cooperation with the national parliaments in the area of defence and pesco. i have one final question for president tusk. when will the council implement the commission’s proposal to invite romania and bulgaria to join schengen as soon as possible as full members? this is becoming a sort of carthage for romanians and bulgarians.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when god created the european union, he thought to give the three main institutions the following qualities: science, power and will. but the devil came and said, 'lord, it's too much.' and god said, 'well, then, let her have only one of those two qualities.' the european council has power and science, but unfortunately it has no will. last week's work proved that. on the digital europe dossier, yes, some progress has been made. as regards pesco, only good intentions were expressed. on the refugee issue, as with brexit, there is talk of progress, but it is acknowledged that it is not significant. but we have nothing on reform of the european union. now, that is our main problem. before the works there was talk of a roadmap. very well, but the problem is we don't have that road yet. until we all decide: the council, the parliament, the european commission, to build this road, the union will be pacing itself, and the road starts with reform, however hard and expensive it may be.
on the occasion of the celebration of the hungarian revolution and freedom war of 1956, may i quote the words of albert camus, who wrote in october 1957: "in europe, which has been left alone, we can remain loyal to hungary only if we never and nowhere betray what the hungarian fighters gave their lives for. it is difficult for us to be worthy of so many sacrifices, but we must try, forgetting our differences, revisiting our mistakes, redoubling our efforts, our solidarity in a europe that is finally united. other and now schengen: the indignation of european citizens who are directly affected by the maintenance of internal border controls in schengen is justified. we all understand the concerns of individual countries, but we must also realise that one of the most important achievements of the european union is being undermined. while the european institutions do not clearly define and in fact acknowledge that the current situation can be sustained indefinitely, citizens perceive this as meaning that everyone can enter at the external borders and that border controls will be reintroduced at the internal borders. if states are unable to guarantee security along the freely navigable internal borders, then somewhere a serious flaw has crept into the system. the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area is still opposed by some member states, while the performance in terms of the secure control of external borders is not lagging behind those countries but those already members of the schengen area.
mr tusk, i am glad to hear that you want unity, you want one european union, not two, not three, not more. but the ball is in your court: the commission president, juncker, has openly stated here that we want a single union, that we want the member states that meet the conditions, romania and bulgaria, to be in schengen. parliament has voted a resolution. so you've come to give us advice? president juncker said that it is good that words are followed by deeds and we expect this. we must never forget that in order to be a united europe, not a divided one, there must be social cohesion, and i think we must do more about this. the european union is a territory to be defended and therefore there needs to be one space. and, mr president tusk, i think we need to see that these countries, which are discriminated against, are at the top of the ranking of pro-european countries and it is good to take this into account. we must respect pro-european citizens and fight against euroscepticism. that is why i think, mr tusk, that it is important that you have unity in the council and not tell us what we have to do. don't give us advice. the number of seats, of course, was mentioned here, parliament will decide, but this time i agree. one state leaves, we have to reduce the number of mps. thank you. thank you.
commission. – mr president, the commission would like to underline that the aviation agreement with morocco has already been applied for more than 10 years and has never given rise to practical difficulties. its entry into force will guarantee that both parties will apply the same level of high standards and will benefit from the new market opportunities. the wording used in this agreement is similar to that used in the eu-morocco fisheries agreement signed around the same period. the question on the geographical scope of the fisheries agreement and the validity of the conclusion of that agreement are currently sub judice and only the court of justice can determine these matters with binding force.
the reporter. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues who are here today for this important vote. i refer to the application of rule 59a of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, namely the referral of the mandate to the committee responsible for interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, in 2016, 4.2 million young people in the european union did not have a job, so they were unemployed. that means we need to change the law on the use of funds to help these young people find jobs. those who do not benefit from these funds are mainly those who do not attend school or a professional development programme, do not have access to information and do not know what to do. another solution that i think would lead to lower youth unemployment is admission to vocational schools or colleges -- so specialization -- based on criteria of merit, ability, dedication, talent, because we're different and we can't all do the same things. some are good at medicine, some are good at engineering, some have the talent to be teachers and the dedication to be teachers, and that way, when you graduate from college, you're sure to get a job, because you go to an interview where it shows that you're talented and you want that job. otherwise, we might have too many people in a certain category who obviously won't find a job. thank you. thank you.
the european medicines agency tells us that this year alone, over five hundred young people have become addicted to psychoactive substances, which are so easily available. that's why their numbers are increasing every year, every month. psychoactive substances should be defined as drugs and banned. the report calls for minimum sanctions, i.e. sanctioning them with minimum limits to sanctions, and uniform application in the member states. here i have a different view from the rapporteur, in that before we punish and sentence people who are only consumers, we must provide them with medical care and treatment, because the aim is to make them well, not necessarily to put them in prison or to punish them and then to continue to take drugs. i would like to highlight another good aspect of the report, namely the cooperation between europol and the member states and the european drugs agency, of course, through which information is exchanged on these types of crime. but the traffickers should be punished, not the consumers - they should be given medical treatment.
whistleblowers, as they're called and known around the world, are people who work in public or private institutions and are people who want to enforce the law. they want to tell out, to state institutions or to investigative journalists, all the legal violations in the institutions where they work. the state has the first interest in finding out about the illegalities in an institution, especially since these illegalities concern public procurement, theft of money, corruption and so on. however, there is no protection. most of them lose their jobs. we have rules on paper in the european union, but life is made a mess for them, they are moved, they are taken on medical leave and so on. why don't we protect these people -- the people who are giving us inside information just so we can recover damages, get rid of the criminals and punish them? these people, i repeat, must be protected and the care of the state must be first, the state is first interested in protecting them. but that's not happening in many member states, and it's not happening in the european union. let's start the new year with a horizontal regulation for all member states with whistleblower protection.
mr president, commissioner, i certainly agree with what you have presented, it is very important what the commission does as a programme for 2018, because the end of the mandate of this commission is approaching. i, as a romanian citizen, would like to see that in 2018, when my country has two important events (it celebrates its centenary and it is the year before the presidency), the citizens of my country enjoy all the rights of european citizens. on the other hand, as you said, commissioner, we need a more united union. this is very important; it is, i think, the main objective, because we can do all this if we are united, if we have the same objectives: a europe where we have better social cohesion, where we have less poor, uneducated, sick people. these are priority objectives for us, for the group i'm part of. we want an ethical european union, as you said, which is fair, but this requires concrete measures to measure the results. i'm glad you spoke, mr timmermans, of fairness. people expect this, and european citizens want greater border security. thank you. thank you.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to welcome minister kivine from the estonian presidency and commissioner oettinger to the european parliament. the position of the european parliament on the 2018 budget of the european union which we are going to vote on tomorrow proposes to you a realistic and honest budget of the european union. we propose a budget which is innovative, which is future oriented and which enables the european union to provide the prospect of prosperity and safety for its citizens. the priorities of the budget for next year in the eyes of parliament should be firstly growth and jobs, and secondly, the safety, the security of citizens. we want to achieve this by investing in research and innovation, infrastructure, small and medium-sized enterprises, the erasmus programme; we want to strengthen measures on combating youth unemployment, we want to stand by the side of young farmers. in order to provide for more security, we want to strengthen the agencies of the union which have responsibility for justice and home affairs, these being: the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol), eurojust, the european asylum support office (easo), frontex, europol. we want to do more in terms of defence at european level because it makes much more sense to spend money once at european level for defence and then share the benefits of our work, of our cooperation, amongst 28 member states, many of us being also in nato and nato saying it is good that the european union does more on defence together, that member states of the union are also cooperating together. this is a new task for the union. it is a future-oriented task. commissioner, i believe that the draft budget which you presented at the end of may is a very good starting point for the upcoming negotiations between council and parliament that will start tomorrow with our vote and which will go on for 21 days. the draft budget is a very good starting point because the commission is the institution best placed to evaluate the implementation of projects and the real needs on the ground. beyond this draft budget, in order to achieve the priorities of parliament which i have just outlined, the european parliament proposes to increase financing by eur 22.5 million for cosme. this is the programme which is financing small and medium-sized enterprises. it is there that the job creation process is taking place. we propose to finance the european research council by eur 15 million more; the sme instrument by eur 10 million more because there is a very high demand, it has a very good implementation rate; the marie curie excellency research programme, because there are many good research projects applying, by eur 10 million; and eur 32 million for erasmus. as we know, 80% of research and innovation programmes under horizon 2020 would not take place unless they were financed at european level, so there is a clear added value there. in terms of strengthening the agencies of the union we want eur 10 million for europol, eur 26 million for easo and eur 3 million each for eurojust and cepol. in terms of external relations, because it is in the fundamental interest of the union to be surrounded by safe countries, we believe we have to allocate our resources primarily to the immediate neighbourhood. it is there that the big risk for the union is coming from. so we propose to use the resources existing in the budget to finance the southern mediterranean appropriately and to increase funding there by eur 120 million. we propose eur 27 million more for the eastern neighbourhood and eur 35 million more for the western balkans. when it comes to our relations with our partner turkey, with which we have jointly managed to overcome the migration and refugee crisis, i want to say the following very briefly: as long as turkey is drifting apart from european standards, we should make sure that particularly the pre-accession funds targeted at supporting political reforms in turkey should be reduced because, in terms of political reforms, turkey is moving for the time being into a direction which is completely opposite to european standards. i am looking forward to the debate, and to the upcoming negotiation with the council and the commission in the coming three weeks.
the rapporteur for the opinion is the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, i was the rapporteur for the opinion in the committee on foreign affairs for the 2018 budget. the commission and the council have called for cuts of half a billion euro in foreign policy. our committee was against this position and i thank my colleagues in the committee on budgets who supported the afet position. in afet i highlighted three areas of great importance: the first is supporting the european union's neighbourhood both to the east and to the south; the second is the proper financing of the common foreign and security policy; and, not least, the third priority is supporting the enlargement policy in the western balkans. as far as turkey is concerned, the afet commission has been very clear: we want part of the accession funds to go to civil society so that we can ensure that we have in the future, perhaps, a democratic turkey at the table.
mr president, commissioner, as has already been said in this chamber, we voted today on a european parliament position on the new mff, which of course relates to your communication. i think it's a very solid and very good position, which i think can support you in drafting the new proposal for the mff. our colleagues think they've done a very good job. there's one fellow here, the other i don't know if he's in the room. i think it will also help you to come sooner than announced, i.e. in may 2019, with this proposal. with regard to the 2018 budget, our colleagues have again done a very good job and i think the main direction of the budget is economic development, jobs, things that europe needs at this moment. i hope that, in the conciliation, you will support parliament, so that it will no longer be the usual case of the council not wanting to give absolutely nothing, but simply trying on the principle of reducing its national contributions to reduce various directions that are important, including erasmus, and support parliament, which wants to be a budget for the people. i would also like to support some of the requests of the committee on transport. first, recovering the money from the cef for fc, which is very important for the transport commission. you have seen that the works were very successful and that there were many bidders and i would just like to draw attention to a very simple thing: i do not understand why very small sums of money, under ten million euros, cannot be found to complete the coverage of the egnos system, which is vital for air transport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2018 seems to be balanced, although it had a less desirable start, with the council making cuts in certain key areas, but which were partially corrected along the way, which is why i congratulate the two rapporteurs. but i think it's extremely important to be grounded in the realities on the ground when we're talking about the efficiency of long-term spending. it is not enough to mark an expenditure in a field without concretely assessing the impact of that expenditure and, in particular, the benefits and sustainability of the investments. in the field of agriculture, we must take into account the major challenges facing the sector, ranging from the phenomenon of aggressive ageing, to the shortage of labour, to the search for new markets. that is why i believe that the programme for the settlement of young farmers should be further supported as a guarantee to prevent depopulation of rural areas. at the same time, we need to ensure the sustainability of these farms in the medium and long term by identifying new markets as we continue to face the russian embargo. however, i appreciate that we must be extremely careful with trade agreements concluded at the level of the european union, and i am referring in particular to the one with the mercosur countries. such an agreement is likely to create major difficulties for us, given that farmers in these countries are not obliged to respect any limit on cadmium, glyphosate or antibiotics, which allows them to obtain a cost price per unit of product well below that obtained by a european farmer, and this affects the long-term sustainability of european investment in agriculture. i believe that the agricultural sector and research and innovation in this area must continue to receive substantial funding so that we can ensure both the efficiency of farmers and the protection of the interests of consumers, who can benefit from quality products at affordable prices.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have noted all your concerns and priorities and what you consider important and critical and we will then evaluate parliament's position very thoroughly tomorrow after your vote and decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i will also pay particular attention to the issue of pre-accession assistance for turkey, and show you which projects we have financed in recent years and what the starting point for 2018 is for pre-accession assistance, in order to discuss with you the scope for action on the reduction. we believe that this opinion will facilitate the debate and i am also sure that, in the course of today's debate, we have a good chance of getting a new budget in 2018 on time.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to listen to the extremely succinct points made by the committees, the surprisingly balanced views made by the political groups and the extremely rich interventions by the members. highlighting or commenting any of one would do gross injustice to the others, so i will not do that. i will just reiterate the council’s willingness to work really hard with the rapporteurs appointed by parliament and commissioner oettinger to turn this summer of discontent into an autumn of conciliation.
the reporter. mr president, thank you. i thank commissioner oettinger and minister kivine very much for the constructive spirit of their speeches. i would also like to thank in particular my colleagues in parliament, the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, with whom i have worked very well. this clear and strong position of parliament would not have been possible without their support. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs of the opinions of the various parliamentary committees that we have heard today. parliament's position is extremely well founded. all requests for more resources to be allocated to certain budget lines are well founded and, as members of parliament know, i have always thought twice before accepting a budget request, because, indeed, our priority must be to manage public money carefully and with the utmost restraint. that is why we want to allocate the money to exactly those areas where citizens expect the european union to deliver: growth and job creation on the one hand, and citizens' safety on the other. it is precisely to achieve these objectives that i have also proposed a package of pilot projects and preparatory actions reflecting the political will of the majority of members of the european parliament. thank you all. i look forward to the talks, the negotiations in the council over the next 21 days.
thank you, we'll pass on the proposal. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 october 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, section ii - european council and council (com ((2016) 0475 - c8-0271/2016 - 2016/2153 (dec)) (a8-0291/2017).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, as a council president i have the somewhat ambiguous pleasure of standing in front of you and speaking on the matter. however, i will try to be as to-the-point as i can and, taking it from where the honourable rapporteur ended, from the council’s position we also see a faint glimmering, a sparkle of hope, in moving things towards improvement. going through my formal statement, it is my duty as president of the council to identify the two aspects of this reiterative annual process: both going through the same procedure as every year, but also now seeing some potential for movement. the council’s position, however, stands. it says that the council has always scrupulously respected article 319 of the treaty according to which the european parliament, acting on a recommendation from the council, gives a single discharge to the commission. as you know, over recent years the council has considerably improved access to relevant information about the activities, the governance and the financial management of the institution. this is, by the way, recognised in the text of the resolution you will be voting on. as in previous years, the european court of auditors did not detect any serious weaknesses in respect of the issues examined for the council. in 2011, the council transmitted to parliament the draft memorandum of understanding in order to organise better the cooperation between our two institutions during the discharge procedure. the council has always been open to discuss concrete issues and concrete drafting. i understand today that the conference of presidents has recently agreed on a mandate in this regard and we think this could be a new momentum. i hope that our institutions will have the opportunity to discuss this soon.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i listened carefully to the presidency's reply. i think that much more effort needs to be put into reaching an agreement between parliament and the council, an agreement which is somewhat artificial because, after all, the treaty says very clearly: we must deal with this discharge for the council as well. i think parliament has made a great effort this year. we had a working group and, with the help of the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs from the political groups, we were able to come up with a proposal which i believe is decent and normal - i repeat, in accordance with the treaty - and which will make it clear to the public what is happening with the public money allocated to the council. the rest i think are things that should not happen between two institutions that are actually responsible for granting discharge, under the treaty, and i think we need to move past that. as i have said many times in the plenary in other years, when the council is discharged, as long as the council is not discharged, nothing happens, because this procedure is a dead end because why should we discharge other institutions if nothing happens to the council when the council is not discharged? so i think we have to be two serious institutions, which have to fulfil the provisions of the treaty.
probably 3 900 would have been more appropriate.
mr president, in the european parliament and in the european institutions in general, we have often complained that european citizens do not know what we do in the european parliament. today i feel that it is very good that i don't know what we do in the european parliament, because if they knew that we in the european parliament have such discussions about how one european institution is in conflict with another european institution on such a minor but sensitive subject - the council doesn't want to let us know how public money, european money, is spent, the council is against transparency - then believe me, even fewer european citizens would trust the european institutions, and fewer european citizens would show up to vote. i think we have a much bigger problem than a budgetary discharge. it is a question of democracy, it is a question of transparency, it is a question of respect for the treaties of the european union, which is much more serious.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 october 2017.
the next item is the debate on the commission and council statements on the protection of journalists and the defence of media freedom in malta: the case of daphne caruana galizia (2017/2896 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. a wikileaks in one woman: daphne caruana galizia. he died in the crusade against corruption in malta. daphne wrote in april that the wife of the maltese prime minister has an account in panama where she deposits the money she received as a bribe from azerbaijan. a week ago, daphne was blown up with her car. i don't understand why we're asking the maltese government to investigate. who's to investigate? the prime minister? when daphne was killed for writing against the prime minister? let's not joke around. first, this prime minister and the entire government must resign. at her funeral, the son said: "mom was killed because she chose to stand between the rule of law and those who were trying to attack it. she became a target because she was the only one who did that. that's what happens when state institutions are incapable. the last person standing is often a journalist. which makes him the first person to die. the mafia never stopped. we have governments that today are organized crime groups and they are sending the message: whoever talks and writes about our hidden money, our corruption and our fraud, this is what will happen to you. empires of corruption have been built over time, defended by walls of iron. the only solution is to start the operation now with clean hands, led by governments that want and must ally with free journalists and honest people and defeat governments that don't.
in writing. – when journalists are afraid, democracy is in danger, the ‘rule of people’ becoming the ‘rule of crooks’. daphne caruana galizia is the 10th journalist to die in 2017, mainstreaming the terror for those who fight the most in the name of transparency. the real justice that can be brought to these reporters is to show that we really need their work and manifest our democratic values by blaming the demonisation of journalists and fully support these professionals in executing their democratic duty without any fear or intimidation.
in writing. in today's rapidly changing world, the way the media works has changed fundamentally, but one thing has remained constant: the fear of the public, of public judgment, by those who commit crimes. what happened in malta with daphne caruana galizia shows that journalists continue to be at risk even in the european union. the panama papers scandal marks a new era of transparency, one that may shed light on another world, one where resources unimaginable to the vast majority of citizens are being funneled among members of the elite. with today's tools, these secrets are no longer secrets, and the tragic death of daphne caruana galizia only draws even more attention to the illegality of the offshore world and the responsibility that democratically elected european governments have towards their citizens in this regard.
madam president! the report is indeed comprehensive, based on a detailed overview of the roma integration process and anti-gypsyism. i would particularly like to highlight the commission's call for practical steps to combat anti-gypsyism and for national roma integration strategies to be drawn up on the basis of successful local practices and programmes. it is necessary to apply practices appropriate to the specific situation within each country. in romania, significant progress has been made in reducing the rate of primary school leavers, but this is almost pointless unless it extends to the mandatory 10th grade, which is a prerequisite for most employment. students should be relieved of the burden of family support, and i see the need for the contribution of roma experts and school mediators. at the same time, intervention plans must target the family rather than the individual, otherwise a symbiosis develops between childcare support and family maintenance. i would suggest equal access to support and roma integration with the involvement and development of the whole community, otherwise the measures may even lead to conflicts. at the same time, social assistance should be provided as an active means of involvement in the labour market, as this is the only way to break out of the trap of passive assistance.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and all the members of the libe committee. it was a work in committee and the vote shows that a balanced proposal for a regulation has been reached, which certainly brings improvements to the i/o system. the new system will be able to check whether non-europeans entering the eu area are respecting the authorised period of stay and, of course, as a colleague said, the system is very expensive. i mean, people's lives are the most important thing, and there's no price comparison. i also thank the rapporteur for supporting the accession of romania and bulgaria to this system, because, yes, the borders of the european union are important for both countries, too. i am convinced that the adoption of this regulation will contribute to better identification checks and let us not forget that every right of movement also entails an obligation to respect the rules, and i believe that this border check is important for the fight against terrorism, but not only. thank you. thank you.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting in favour of the schengen entry and exit system. we fought for such a single european entry and exit system that would also include romania and bulgaria and it is very good that we have succeeded in achieving them. the establishment of this system has further facilitated romania's and bulgaria's access to the visa information system. we are thus making official the result of many months of negotiations in which many of you have participated and i congratulate you on the result. we are also making official, and i am very proud of this, another step towards the full integration of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. both countries deserve and fulfil all possible criteria for schengen membership. moreover, even before joining the european union and especially afterwards, they have always acted in accordance with the provisions of the schengen agreement and in order to respect and strengthen it. the council of the european union, with the support of parliament and the commission, commissioner, must take further steps to recognize the undeniable fact that our place is in schengen.
madam president, in 2015 alone more than 50 million non-eu nationals visited the eu, crossing the external border of the schengen area more than 200 million times. these passenger flows are expected to increase substantially in the future too. a system of stamping passports, a legacy of the past century, is inefficient, slow to cope with the increase in traveller numbers, unreliable, and inadequate in addressing the complex security challenges we face today. the basic building blocks of the entry/exit system (ees) – precise and rapidly delivered information, better monitoring of the authorised stay, more efficient border checks and automated border controls – will further bring our border controls into the 21st century. as to the link between border controls and internal security, i very much welcome the rapporteur’s work on granting security forces access to the ees with the aim of fighting serious crime and terrorist threats.
in writing. in a volatile geopolitical context, marked recently by both the migration crisis and a rise in the number of terrorist attacks, it is important that the european union has 'smart', efficient and integrated borders to manage the flows of people transiting its territory. as rapporteur for the s&d group in the ep committee on budgets on the commission's proposal for a harmonised system for the entry and exit of non-eu citizens into the community, i believe that achieving this would significantly help member states to manage the eu's external borders in a uniform and timely manner. as this report has established that romania and bulgaria are an integral part of the ees and schengen is a landmark of european unity and cooperation, i call on european leaders to urgently complete the accession process for those countries. they have already demonstrated that they fulfil all the conditions for a proper participation in the schengen area. european security can only be achieved through close cooperation between member states, and this requires first and foremost equal treatment of them.
madam president, i have one minute and 30 seconds. i will speak in hungarian. néhány hete is beszéltünk a nők elleni erőszak elleni harc fontosságáról, és az elmúlt napokban még szélesebb nyilvánosság számára vált világossá, milyen komoly, mégis milyen régóta szőnyeg alá söpört problémáról van szó. az unióban több mint 250 millió nőt érint az erőszak valamilyen formája, a nők egyharmadát legalább egyszer érte felnőtt életében fizikai erőszak. nemcsak a következő nemzedéknek van szüksége oktatásra a nők elleni erőszak kapcsán, nemcsak a fiataloknak, hanem mindenkinek! ez a kérdés a tiszteletről szól, arról, hogy képesek vagyunk-e tisztelni egymást emberként, képesek vagyunk-e tiszteletben tartani egymás döntéseit, akaratát, függetlenül attól, hogy nők vagy férfiak vagyunk. soha, egyetlen nőnek sem szabad megalázva éreznie magát azért, mert nőnek született. fél éve indítottunk egy kampányt erdélyben, romániában, annak érdekében, hogy felhívjuk a figyelmet a nők elleni erőszak elleni harcra, szigorúbbá téve a törvénykezést, tájékoztatva a nőket jogaikról és lehetőségeikről – a napokban diákok számára is képzéseket indítottunk. mint láthattuk, a nőkkel szembeni visszaélés megszüntetésében óriási szerepe van a nyilvánosságnak, a médiának, a reklámoknak, éppen ezért támogatást kell nyújtanunk minden tagállam számára, hogy a civil szférával együttműködve konkrét intézkedéseket hozhassanak. az áldozattá vált nőknek azonnali védelmet szavatoló intézményekre, ingyenes jogi tanácsadásra és tájékoztatásra és megfelelő anyagi biztonságra is szükségük van.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has proved to be useful. and yet, we have received solidarity from our male colleagues who spoke, but, as the commissioner is present, we need to address ourselves as meps in our countries and find synergy between non-governmental organisations, between civil society. women who report this violence must be protected. we need projects for education, education and infrastructure, because we cannot take them out of family life where, sometimes, they suffer sexual abuse, or from work if we don't find an infrastructure to shelter these women and then legal aid: many cannot support a legal process to find justice. so i think very strongly that we need to have a partnership at the national level as well. it's not enough just to be here. congratulations and it's just the beginning, we have to keep going.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have to inform you of two technical corrections to be applied to two amendments on the budget tabled by the committee on budgets, in line with the actual committee vote. the first technical correction please is line 09047705, it is amendment 1 735. the final level of payments should be read as: eur 1 250 000. the second technical correction is in line 240107, amendment 1 838. the final total amounts, including the 10% reserve, should be at the level of the draft budget. these are the two technical corrections which i have to introduce to you ahead of the vote. other than this, i would like to thank all colleagues who have worked on parliament’s position on the eu budget for 2018, all shadow rapporteurs, all rapporteurs of the opinions of the specialised committee. it is important that we are sending today a clear and strong message to the council by supporting the budget with a large majority. what we have agreed and what we are voting today is a budget for a strong, future-oriented union, a union which can offer a perspective of prosperity and safety to the citizens. so thank you very much to all colleagues who have worked and supported me in this.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the fight against illegal immigration and smuggling in the mediterranean. topic debate (rule 153a) (2017/2898 ((rsp)) i would like to inform my colleagues that the 'catch the eye' procedure is not applied to this debate and no blue cards are accepted.
for your information, mr ferrand, this decision that this debate - yesterday there was another debate where the same thing was applied - is held without 'catch the eye' and without blue cards is a decision taken unanimously by the leaderships of all the political groups, and i have received this information, which i am obliged to bring to your attention at the beginning of the debate, so that everyone knows what the rules of the game are today.
i would appeal to all colleagues to try to stay focused on the substantive issues in our debate and avoid addressing other colleagues as much as possible.
mr president, illegal immigration is first and foremost a human tragedy. it is a gesture of desperation, which is exploited by traffickers of all kinds. the situation of refugees and migrants currently held by smugglers in the libyan town of sabratha is an example. the fight against illegal immigration in the mediterranean must be fought on two fronts. first of all, we must stop the traffickers, not only by arresting them at sea, but above all by imposing sanctions on the leaders of these regions. stopping them also means supporting the peace process in libya, as smugglers make their fortunes and operate in a political and security vacuum. the new peace plan proposed by the un special envoy is a step in the right direction. we must help this country to break out of the deadlock. the second front is that of solidarity, which is not an option but a duty. unfortunately, the numbers speak for themselves. our member states are not fulfilling their obligations under the relocation mechanism for refugees in italy and greece, adopted in september 2015. hungary and poland did not take in any refugees, the czech republic took in 12, slovakia 16 and austria 15. solidarity is also almost non-existent when it comes to the emergency fund for africa. it has reached its limits and, if the member states do not contribute more, we will no longer be able to pursue our policies of voluntary return, border security, education and vocational training. how can we offer an alternative to these migrants without financial means? we are faced with a very short-term vision, whereas the european union needs a strategic vision to make a difference and solve this problem.
mr president, saving lives at sea and combating trafficking in human beings must remain priorities in the current mediterranean migration crisis. those who are trafficked are often at risk of being tortured, of being killed. corruption is also always at the heart of human trafficking. some may never get to the other side of the continent, where they want to go. and then, in practice, trafficking in migrants not only endangers their lives, but also supports terrorist acts, because trafficking in migrants, for example, finances terrorism. so we need to stop this trafficking, help those who need protection to get to europe and, again, stop the trafficking of human beings, including the cutting of terrorist funding. i would say one more thing: what we decided to adopt in parliament, after the mandatory quotas, was the relocation procedure, which means that we go there and we choose who we bring, as canada does and as other countries do, after checking security, health and criminal records, whether there are any or not.
if only it were so simple.
one word about timing. when you are in a position such as this, you are above all a timekeeper. but we are in a parliament in which communication is the most important thing, so we must strike a balance between keeping to the time and permitting and facilitating communication. that is why i am trying not to stop immediately when the time is over, and to let the person finish the ideas, because in the end the communication amongst ourselves is the most important thing. if i don’t manage to keep that balance all the time, well, it happens and i apologise for that. but this is my philosophy, so you should know that and we should all contribute towards making this work.
perfect timing!
mr president, i would like to start by welcoming the first report expressly dedicated to the eurozone. following the commission’s first proposal for a eurozone fiscal stance, i support a positive fiscal stance that will allow member states to invest more and that directly contributes to the increase of growth and employment. in order to build a stronger europe, we need to create a more social europe and to lay the ground for social growth based on a general approach, but also on a country—specific approach. therefore, we need to ensure that the fiscal policies are led with the necessary flexibility at eu level. member states must have freedom to manoeuver in their fiscal policies, especially when considering the needed structural reforms to be implemented. we need to strengthen our fiscal sustainability, vital for our future cohesion. structural economic reforms should increase eu sustainable growth potential, real economy convergence and social cohesion by reducing economic inequalities and strengthening labour markets through inclusion policies that favour investments.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, today’s debate and your vote tomorrow concern one of the first proposals put forward as part of our capital markets union, and it is an important one. by defining criteria for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation (sts), we can revitalise european capital markets’ securitisation in a sustainable way. there is a broad consensus among regulators, supervisors and companies that this would benefit the european economy. it would free up more lending for investment and help manage risk in the banking sector. securitisation allows banks to convert pools of individual loans into bonds, which are then sold to other institutions or long—term investors. this helps banks free up capital set aside for existing loans and, in this way, securitisation supports more lending to the wider economy and gives investors access to more investment instruments. securitisation is believed by many to have been the trigger for the financial crisis in the us. while eu securitisation has performed well overall during the crisis, the crisis still reveals flaws in the way securitisation was regulated and supervised. at the moment securitisation in the eu is very low. last year, issuance of securitised products in europe was not even at half of its 2007 level. given its important role in financing the real economy, in 2015 the commission put forward a framework for revitalising the market in a prudent way. by rebuilding issuance back to the pre-crisis levels, we could generate an additional eur 115 billion of yearly funding for households and companies. after two years of discussions, i am happy to say that the final result is both balanced and ambitious. it will help restore an important funding channel for the eu economy, while learning from the mistakes of the past. the new regulation sets out specific criteria for securitisations to help investors understand the nature and the risk of what they are investing in. the qualifying securitisations would be simple. for example, only comparable loans can be brought together in one product, and the repackaging of other securitisations would generally not be allowed. they would also be transparent, meaning that the right information is available for investors to assess risk and for supervisors to properly monitor markets. building on the parliament’s proposal, the package now includes an esma-supervised data repository to ensure the transparency of sts securitisations. securitisations would be standardised to make them easy to identify and understand. our proposals contain appropriate safeguards. the issuer would need to retain at least 5% of the securitised asset. this is to ensure that their incentives are aligned with those of the investor. underlying assets would also need to be creditworthy according to existing eu rules. finally, we are introducing new capital requirement rules for those banks that invest in securitisation in order to promote a stable and resilient banking sector. these requirements build on global standards and will fully reflect the lower risks associated with the sts securitisation. so we have done important work to agree on the final text. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament and, in particular, the chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, roberto gualtieri, the rapporteurs, paul tang and othmar karas, and the shadow rapporteurs. let us now conclude this important chapter in building the capital markets union so that the benefits to businesses and households can be quickly realised.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, indeed, with this securitisation package we are taking an important step towards the realisation of what we call the european capital markets union. why do i say this? first, for the first time, we are introducing common rules on securitisation, not only for all member states, but for all categories of financial activities, whether it is banking, insurance, asset management and other activities. secondly, these rules ensure transparency, standardisation and the necessary protection in the activity of converting financial assets, through securitisation, into new financial products that are offered to investors. in this prudent sense, i would particularly highlight three measures contained in this legislative package: the retention of at least 5% of the risk by those who initiate the securitisation, strict conditions under which new financial products resulting from the securitisation may be offered to small investors and, finally, the prohibition of successive securitisation operations for the same financial asset. let's not forget, the financial crisis started right in the zone of securitization, of excesses within the u.s. economy. i thank the reports and the commission for this legislative package.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although we have been talking about this practice for two years, during which time several complaints have been submitted to the commission, including by me, we have zero solutions and concrete actions, and the number of companies restricting access to information is increasing. in a globalised and increasingly digital economy, restrictive practices such as the introduction of additional fees for booking tickets through agencies or online platforms are illogical and wasteful. in the 21st century, consumers have the right to be fully informed about the services they buy and to be able to compare everything available on the market, and these changes must also be reflected in the business model of companies. as a member of the committee on transport and co-chair of the tourism intergroup, i want european aviation to become a success story, especially in the context of fierce competition with other regions and third countries. but this success can only be achieved by maintaining high standards for consumers, standards that start with access to information and the ability to choose the best deal based on price, budget, flight schedule and time saved.
member of the commission. – mr president, in europe the strength of the law has replaced the law of the strong. our union is not a state, but it is a community of law. proper application of the law ensures that individuals and companies can enjoy their rights, that they obtain legal certainty in their daily lives and obtain rapid and effective redress if rights are violated. together with the council, the european parliament can adopt the best law in the world, but unless it is properly applied it will not change anything, so on behalf of first vice-president frans timmermans, i welcome the fact that this house so strongly shares the commission’s view that making sure that european union law is properly implemented, and effectively complied with, has to be permanently among our top priorities. for that reason, this chamber’s continuous work on our annual reports is particularly important. there have been a number of significant developments since 2015. i think these developments respond to a great number of the issues have raised. in particular, members call for strengthened enforcement and monitoring of the implementation of the european union legislation in key policy areas. since 2016, the commission’s new enforcement policy does exactly that. we have put forward a more strategic, effective and proportionate approach to our infringement policy to allow us to deliver on our policy priorities. importantly, we will now launch infringement procedures without first relying on the eu pilot mechanism, unless recource to this mechanism is seen as useful in a particular case. on transparency, we have taken concrete measures to provide more information about infringement decisions. in 2014 we set up a centralised platform for proactively disseminating information on infringements on our europa website in all union languages, and we are making an ongoing effort to improve the accessibility and user—friendliness of this website even more. we will continue to provide parliament and the public at large with information on the follow—up given to complaints and parliamentary petitions in our annual reports. we must do this, of course, while respecting confidentiality with regard to the member states in infringement procedures as recognised by the court of justice. in recent years this house has dedicated considerable energy to better regulation and the commission very much welcomes that. our shared aim, reflected in the institutional agreement on better law—making, is to ensure legislation is prepared in an open, transparent way using the best evidence available and valuable stakeholder input. we also focus on ways to support member states in their implementation of european rules and are pleased to see that parliament supports these efforts. we also pay particular attention to the national authorities who have key tasks under eu law, such as national competent authorities, national data protection supervisory authorities and national rail, energy and telecoms regulators. we will continue to work in partnership with them through the range of networks we have in place. as you will know, we reported on the latest developments on better regulation in a communication adopted this thursday alongside the commission work programme for 2018. i also support your call for a more active role for national parliaments in the dialogue on the european union’s legislative proposals. the commission has invested heavily in the political dialogue with national parliaments, as well as the formal consultation mechanisms set out in the treaty. over the last three years, members of the commission have visited national parliaments more than 650 times. they also participated in more than 300 interactive citizens’ dialogues in more than 80 cities and towns across 27 member states. finally, we will continue to strengthen our cooperation with the european network of ombudsmen, which the european ombudsman coordinates and which promotes good administration in the application of eu law at national level. there are nevertheless two issues which we have also discussed in the past and where we do not fully agree. first, your call for an increased role for parliament in monitoring the implementation of eu law. without prejudice to the essential democratic control by parliament, it is the commission which oversees the application of european union law, under the control of the court of justice of the european union. the infringement procedure has a specific bilateral nature recognised in the treaty. it is conducted solely between the commission and the member state concerned. there are thus legal limits as regards the role of parliament in this process. second, you call again for a legislative proposal on administrative procedures under article 298 of the treaty. i would like to stress two points here. firstly, the commission has already created a strong framework to protect complainants. our code of good administrative behaviour and the communication on relations with the complainant offer a number of guarantees that safeguard complainants’ rights throughout the entire procedure. secondly, as the eu administers a range of diverse, often highly—specialised activities, we need sector—specific rules. citizens and businesses concerned by such specialised activities are guaranteed specific administrative rights which are guaranteed by the court of justice of the european union. against this background, the commission still remains to be convinced of the added value of a legal instrument that would codify administrative law. the effective application of european union law is essential to deliver the benefits of european policies to citizens, businesses and public administrations. the commission welcomes the fact that it has such a strong partner as the parliament in ensuring that the laws you pass are implemented properly so that they really deliver positive benefits on the ground.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, first of all, i would like to express my appreciation for the work of my colleagues and the rapporteur. uniform and timely transposition of legislation across the union is essential to ensure that citizens in all member states benefit from the benefits of european union policy at the same time. the commission's report revealed that problems with the application of european law still exist in most member states. the late or incorrect transposition of these rules adversely affects legal certainty and prevents citizens from enjoying, effectively and equally, the rights that are recognised at european level. i appreciate that in this context the commission needs to identify in a timely manner the areas where there are difficulties in transposing legislation, in order to identify the solutions that are needed, and not just to provide an overview. i would also like to highlight the role of the eu pilot procedures, which aim to bring about closer cooperation between the commission and the member states, in order to remedy infringements of eu law at an early stage, without resorting to formal infringement procedures. each european state must, however, refrain from over-regulation at national level, as this automatically leads to administrative complications that have a negative impact on the lives of citizens. moreover, a thick, inconsistent and often changing national legislation threatens the effectiveness of european union policies in various areas, such as cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. this is particularly the case in the area of the regulation of procedures for absorbing european funds, where member states add additional conditionalities beyond european regulations and directives. i therefore consider that the commission's intervention is necessary to limit such over-regulation. ensuring the timely and correct application of union law in the member states remains a considerable and ongoing challenge. but we must remember that this contributes significantly to increased investment, to economic growth, but also to increased employment. that is why my group and i personally believe that all amendments which challenge the legitimacy of european policies must be rejected by a vote.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as the social democrat rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs, i am concerned about the timely and correct implementation of community law in national legislation. this continues to be a major challenge due to the high number of infringement procedures, which of course has a negative impact on the completion of the single market. the main responsibility for the correct implementation and application of union law lies with the member states. however, the european union institutions, namely the commission, must ensure that the tools made available to the member states, such as manuals, expert groups, dedicated online platforms, are sufficient and genuinely address the issues of transposition of legislation. in addition, i am disappointed that, in terms of the transposition of legislative provisions, the three areas in which member states have been the most subject to infringement procedures have been the transport, energy and environment sectors. however, it must not be forgotten that these sectors are characterised by a certain specificity. in this respect, i have asked the commission to explain the reasons for this situation. i believe that in order to meet the deadlines for transposition, the commission should also set realistic deadlines for implementation, already at the pre-legislative stage, as administrative capacity and infrastructure needs differ from one member state to another. it is therefore clear that efforts to adjust national legislation may require some countries to take a double approach, especially as in certain situations and for certain member states the commission imposes additional conditions which affect the ability of those states to implement european legislation or to benefit from the use of european funds and financing, and this directly affects investment and jobs and, by implication, national and european economies. on the positive side, however, this report also reflects a position that encourages better lawmaking at eu level, and this is the process we need to focus on in the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, transparency and clarity are indispensable in the development and application of law by the institutions of the european union and the member states. there was talk of a lower number of petitions, complaints, 3,450. it is a surprise to me that half, almost 50%, of these complaints come from three countries which can be or will be examples for the new member states, germany, italy and spain. unfortunately, we must not deceive ourselves. the number of human rights violations is much higher, but citizens, many of them, do not know their rights or are demobilized by the bureaucracy that exists in filing a petition. petitions are an important source of direct information, not only on breaches and shortcomings in the application of law in the european union and the member states, but also on possible gaps in union law. so we have to take them into account. personally, i get a lot of petitions, not only from my country but from other countries. i think, commissioner, that you should not be angry - that is what i understand and perhaps you will answer me. parliament has a key role and must exercise political control over enforcement actions, how the commission tackles this issue and how it transparently reports to parliament on this subject on an annual basis.
mr president, like many others before it, this report again points out that the eu has been set up as a union based on the rule of law and respect for human rights, a community of values in which the rights of minorities are respected and in which cultural and linguistic diversity is protected and enhanced. the report is right to point out that, besides monitoring violations and deficiencies in the application by member states of existing eu legislation, the commission is also bound to act in previously omitted legislative areas in order to give effect to treaty provisions. this is especially true for cases where definite failures can be observed in the compliance with the founding values of our union. for example, there is still no secondary eu legal framework to protect and guarantee the rights of national minorities living in the european union, even though this is an area where the eu is very active in relation to third countries. as one academic pointed out, in the eu, minority protection is still an area destined for export and not for domestic consumption. such loopholes in eu legislation are very clearly visible, not only when member states act against the spirit of the treaties but also when citizens expressly point out issues in petitions or citizens’ initiatives. in this sense, it was definitely regrettable that the commission only agreed to register the minority safepack european citizens’ initiative when forced by a judgment of the eu tribunal. to recall, the promoters asked the eu to adopt a set of legal acts aimed at improving the protection of persons belonging to national and linguistic minorities, and [noted] that strengthening cultural and linguistic diversity in the union is something that is a founding value of our union. the implementation of eu law is a priority, but so is acting on such long-standing omissions with clear negative consequences on the lives of millions of eu citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, because on the one hand she has identified very well what needs to be changed in the directive, it is a balanced proposal, yes, everyone, from the citizen to the national and european institutions, must be concerned about protecting the environment. of course, i would like to see more emphasis on prevention, because the polluter pays, but we are interested in protecting the environment, not the money that is collected from the polluter. but i would point out that very often there is a lack of infrastructure. companies do not have how and where to store, for example, waste, and there are no technical and technological solutions in the member states. i therefore believe that careful legislation is needed to avoid creating a disparity between member states and ultimately unequal competition in the internal market. it is important to clarify and harmonise the way in which the directive is applied and to specify that there is no standard administrative procedure for notifying the competent authorities of environmental damage. so i'm in favor of changing the directive.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much indeed. honourable members, i am very happy to have listened to you, but if i may i will just say a few words in my mother tongue, lithuanian, because as a medical doctor i would like to focus the attention of my colleagues, members of the european parliament, who have just mentioned some very important issues. ponia krupa iškėlė klausimus dėl naujagimių vakcinavimo ir vakcinų skaičiaus. aš neabejoju, kad italija turi didžiules mokslines pajėgas, pediatrų, imunologų, klinicistų, laboratorijos pajėgas, puikią mokslinę bazę, ir suprantama, kad jų žingsniai spręsti šias problemas yra pagrįsti. ir labai teisingai jūs keliate klausimus, kuriuos reikėtų diskutuoti tarp specialistų. man kaip kardiochirurgui yra puikiai suprantama privalomos vakcinacijos nauda. aš privalėjau save vakcinuoti nuo hepatitų, kitų virusinių susirgimų. kodėl? nes intervencijos metu aš galiu pažeisti savo rankas ir tuo pačiu užkrėsti ligonį, yra daug profesijų, kuriose yra privalomas vakcinavimas. tai ar čia yra kokie nors kiti kriterijai apie studijas autizmo dar ko nors, kai mes žinome moksliškai pagrįstus argumentus, kuriais patys ir vadovaujamės. aš save vakcinuoju nuo gripo kiekvienais metais viešai ir kviečiu jus visus tą daryti. ar gi čia yra diskusijos dėl farmacijos industrijos, ar tai yra diskusijas dėl mūsų pačių, profesionalų ypatingai, gebėjimo parodyti, kaip yra svarbu užkirsti kelią toms infekcinėms ligoms, kurios yra valdomos. ponia mélin iškėlė klausimus dėl ryšio tarp ypatingai pavojingų infekcijų, bakterijų, bakterinio ginklo naudojimo terorizme. ir čia ypač svarbu pabrėžti, kad prevencijos prasme nauji tyrimai, naujos paieškos yra neišpasakytai reikalingos. ir tai yra pasaulinis susitarimas turėti pasaulines reguliavimo taisykles, kurios leistų mums sukaupti išteklius preventyviai reaguoti, jeigu naujos infekcijos būtų kurtos arba būtų panaudotas bakterinis ginklas. juk čia yra sveikatos saugumo klausimas taip pat. aš labai dėkoju, kad iškėlėte klausimą dėl studijų. taip, reikalingos tos studijos ir mes tą darysime. ir ponas jakovčić paminėjo kroatijos atvejį. taip, iš tiesų jūs žinote, kad yra dvylika šalių, kuriose vakcinacija yra privaloma, yra profesijų, kuriose vakcinacija būtina, nes kitaip, kaip minėjau, tos profesijos gali sukelti daug bėdų platinant infekcinius susirgimus. aš truputį pajuokausiu. mes visi žinome, kad, kai mes vairuojame automobilį, tai automobilio techninė apžiūra kas porą metų yra privaloma, o tuo tarpu, kai mes turime savo sudėtingą biologinę sistemą, tai mes galime neprivalomai rūpintis. keista, pamėginkim diskutuoti. atšaukim automobilių privalomą techninę priežiūrą. kai mes kalbame apie dalykus be galo rimtus, mes staiga imame naudoti keistą argumentą, multinacionalinės kompanijos, bet tie argumentai iš pasenusių arsenalo, reikėtų turbūt giliau įsigilinti į skaičius, problemas, juk teisingai pasakė ponas cozzolino, kad mes negalime žaisti žaidimų, kai kalbame apie žmonių gyvybes, bet juo labiau, kai kalbame apie vaikų gyvybes. aš negaliu patikėti, kad mes nesugebame suvaldyti, apsaugoti vaikučių ir suvaldyti tymų protrūkio. dovanokit, bet tai yra visiškai nepriimtina, kad mes galime užsimerkti ir sakyti, žinot kažkas tai atsitiko, nu mirtis, nu ką padarysi, mėginkim toliau, kaip sakyti, nesiimkim priemonių. i would like to stress once more that right now in europe children are still dying from vaccine—preventable diseases that should long ago have been eradicated in europe. we are all responsible. we all need to do more to stop this. i want to thank you for this inspiring discussion. i believe the time has come to engage with member states with a view to increasing the acceptance and uptake of vaccines across the eu. in this context, i sense that there is common ground to counter vaccine hesitancy – i see that we are all like—minded – to strengthen evidence, transparency and sustainability of national vaccination programmes and to increase the effectiveness of eu vaccine research and development. today’s discussions show that there is broad agreement about the added value of eu—level cooperation on vaccines. together we must maximise our limited resources and work towards more convergent national vaccination policies. we need convergence in this situation. to this end, as i said earlier, the commission is shaping a new initiative to support member states by leveraging intersectoral cooperation, promoting cross—border interoperability and increasing consistency of communication. i am confident that this worldview will, in the long run, lead to better vaccination coverage across europe and stop the tragic deaths of unvaccinated people in this context, especially children. i wish to thank you again, honourable members, for your support. you play an important role in these discussions and i welcome your engagement. let me assure you that the commission and myself personally are fully committed to improving vaccination in europe.
thank you, mr. president, i asked you to speak because i would like to point out that a new law on education was recently adopted in ukraine. it's a law that nullifies rights. between those rights being cancelled and those for communities of romanians losing freedoms they had. it's about the right to education in romanian. they will be able to learn in this language only in the first four years of school and not later. romanian is one of the european languages and i think ukraine made a big mistake by revoking those rights. i would ask you to intervene on this issue so that ukraine can correct the mistake made.
thank you, madam president, i welcome the commission's proposal and at the same time i congratulate the rapporteur and those who have worked on this document. cohesion policy, as we all know, has the role of removing social disparities between regions and member states of the european union. however, the effectiveness of these policies depends first and foremost on knowledge of the realities on the ground, which are different from country to country or region to region. unfortunately, we are witnessing a phenomenon of mass migration, in particular, mass concentrations in urban areas, which are resulting in a worrying depopulation of rural areas, generated by their lack of attractiveness. however, this phenomenon varies from country to country and from region to region. territorial typologies must be set up in harmonised, transparent and eu-wide legal instruments to increase the effectiveness of european policies, and in particular cohesion policy. whether it is employment, rural development, agriculture or tourism, demography or poverty, these must be benchmarks that lead to increased inclusion at european level and strengthen the links between urban and rural areas. successful implementation of future policies and actions at european level depends on a correct understanding of the information provided by the typology of the different regions. however, i would point out that without decentralisation of decision-making, which must be brought as close as possible to the citizen, the effectiveness of cohesion policy will be far from achieving its objective. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, madam president, commissioner, colleagues, one year and countless meetings and trilogues later, we are at the end of this extremely important dossier for european inland navigation and the european transport system. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs gesine in the first place for the excellent work she has done as rapporteur on this dossier. i also thank my fellow rapporteurs for their constructive approach to the negotiations. i consider this report to be a success for the internal market because it brings concrete solutions to the problems facing the inland navigation sector. the situation from which we started is that we currently have no clear system for drawing up navigation standards and no smooth process for the recognition of all the certificates that exist, in particular the recognition of certificates for the rhine and the danube. this is also why the profession of navigator has become unattractive to the younger generation. however, what the agreement between parliament and the council brings is an efficient european system for issuing and recognising certificates issued by each member state. it is certainly regrettable that we have not been able to achieve full implementation of the directive, but i believe that we have laid the foundations for a system which will actually improve navigation on the main rivers where it is really needed. all european states will be obliged to recognise european certificates, even if they do not issue such documents, and the criteria and requirements included in the delegated acts will be published in all european languages. this was a request from the social democratic group. all of these things will support the free movement of labour and we will be able to attract more people to this sector. i think that the social aspects could be improved. it is important, however, that we have managed to include in the recitals that employers are obliged to apply the social and remuneration standards of the countries where they operate, even if the employees come from third countries. in addition, the commission will have to ensure that these social standards are actually respected and that women's participation is encouraged. in parallel, we have ensured that, in the long term, the commission will make periodic assessments of the new system, especially from the point of view of digitalisation, which will help us to monitor working and rest times, but also to eliminate the existing excessive bureaucracy. that said, i consider the final outcome of the trilogues to be a very good one and i recommend a positive vote by parliament. thank you and i hope that it will be a step forward for better mobility and labour mobility in the transport sector. thank you very much, madam president.
thank you, madam president, madam commissioner, and i want to congratulate mrs gesine. it is a report which i consider extremely important because we cannot exclude from transport maritime and inland waterway transport. i was born near the danube, i know what that means. i think at the same time that we can make a lot of regulations in the field of transport, i am also part of the commission for the internal market, but if we do not also regulate professional qualifications so that these are the single european certificates to be able to allow cross-border development, to be able to allow labour mobility, it is an extremely important area and i think it is very good that the report has also covered the issue of respect for labour law, rest, all the issues related to workers, but also the issue of gender equality and i congratulate you especially for this because it is an area in which women have had less access, perhaps because of too little information. and i think, commissioner, that it is good that there is also an assessment of qualifications, not just qualifications and the issuing of certificates, and i am happy if this report is voted on because it will complement transport and transport regulations. thank you. thank you.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that no one is questioning the importance of this report. i want to congratulate the rapporteur, i want to congratulate all the colleagues who contributed. of course, road safety is directly related to people's lives. commissioner, we have the new road safety strategy, but i think we have to think about other objectives. we have identified the causes: our colleagues have said here, i want to highlight some of them. first of all, the infrastructure. i have said many times that we need to direct european money, european funds, the european fund for strategic investments towards infrastructure, but in areas where there is a backlog in terms of the quality of infrastructure. then there is the quality and training of the drivers. of course, and here i argue that we need to change the way in which driving licences are checked, the way in which the quality of training is checked periodically. we also need better signalling because there are situations where bad signalling causes accidents. and when i think that 51% of road accidents are in urban areas, i think that here, commissioner, we must encourage member states to allocate funds for the decongestion of urban transport and the provision of bicycle lanes to the new means, electric bicycles. there's now a tremendous possibility of urban accident for exactly that reason. and i think it really helps this report and i propose that it be voted on. thank you. thank you.
in writing. despite the fact that european roads remain the safest in the world, statistics still show a worrying number of road traffic fatalities. every year, more than 25 000 people in europe lose their lives on the community's roads and 135 000 suffer serious accidents, with the social cost of these tragedies - from rehabilitation, medical care, damage, etc. - reaching approximately 100 billion euros. in addition, country data show that the number of road accidents still varies widely across the eu, and progress in countries such as romania - where there are high deaths per million inhabitants - is negligible. the report also calls for the eu to take action to reduce the number of road accidents by half by 2020. national authorities need to step up their efforts to enforce the law and raise awareness and educate citizens. in parallel, we call on the brussels executive to monitor the situation more closely, to help member states improve their performance by facilitating the exchange of data and to adopt legislation as soon as possible to allow for the sanctioning of cross-border crime.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the persecution of christian minorities worldwide has been a recurring primary concern of this house. only last may, the plenary debated the situation of christians in the middle east. as vice—president of the commission/high representative madam mogherini firmly stated on that occasion, the freedom of religion or belief is a fundamental right of every human being. all persons should be able to practise their religion and worship freely, individually or in community with others, and to live free from fear. this applies to people of all faiths, or none, including to christians. yet we know that religious freedom is under attack in many parts of our world. sectarianism is one of the diseases of our age. the millennial diversity of many societies is put at risk by the rise of the sectarian hatred. no continent has been spared from this kind of violence, from south asia to sub-saharan africa. this parliament has often focused on the persecution of christian minorities in the middle east, and rightly so. christians are discriminated against, harassed and persecuted in large parts of the middle east, and the number of christians is drastically decreasing. christianity was born in the middle east; it belongs to those lands, and this is something we cannot possibly forget. if the middle east loses its incredible diversity, it would also lose its vitality and its greatest richness. at the same time, persecution rarely targets just one minority. as we see in syria and iraq, not only christians but also yazidis, shia muslims and other religious communities are suffering from discrimination, harassment and persecution. therefore, a long-term strategic approach to protect christian and other religious groups must focus on addressing those ideologies and changing those state structures that encourage discrimination and violence. such violence may be committed by state or non-state actors for a number of different reasons. ideology is certainly one of them, but it is not the only one. in many cases, the persecution of christians and other minorities has political, ethnic or economic reasons. very often, it is more about power than about religion itself. this is something we need to keep in mind if we want to make a real difference to the life of christian minorities around the world. for this reason, our approach has focused on security as well as on culture and education, but also on diplomacy, governance and national reconciliation. we always react with public statements or private demarches to condemn violence against christians. let me also focus on other actions we have taken in defence of persons belonging to minorities. first, since the adoption of the eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief in 2013, their implementation has remained a key priority for eu action. second, the eeas taskforce on religion and culture has led to an increased exchange on religious freedom and religious engagement both inside the eeas, with commission dgs and with european parliament services. the eeas actively participates in, and co-chairs, the transatlantic policy network on religion and diplomacy. a number of concrete initiatives on diversity and tolerance have grown out of this network. third, the eeas also actively encourages cooperation among member states on this issue. the council’s working party on human rights (cohom) created a taskforce on freedom of religion. it works on informal information exchanges on events and situations on the ground, and in preparation of eu resolutions at the united nations. the council’s working party on human rights’ informal meeting in malta on april 2017 had a full dedicated session on freedom of religion and belief. fourth, during this year, the eu’s special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, continued being actively engaged on freedom of religion and belief. he has placed special emphasis on the implementation of the un rabat plan of action that includes positive elements to address hate speech and to counter violence perpetrated in the name of religion. mr ján figeľ, the special envoy for the promotion of the freedom of religion or belief outside the eu, has also worked on the implementation of the eu guidelines on freedom of religion and belief, particularly on his visits to iraq, the united arab emirates, jordan and sudan. fifth, the eu also uses all its financial instruments to support this endeavour. the european instrument for democracy and human rights now finances around 40 projects related to freedom of religion and belief accounting for more than eur 15 million. the commission’s directorate general for development has recently launched a new call for proposals for intercultural dialogue and culture. this programme envisages cooperation with partner countries on intercultural dialogue for peaceful inter-community relations. sixth, we also continue cooperation with unesco, the un alliance of civilisations, the anna lindh foundation and the istanbul process. seventh, education is the best tool for building open societies and for avoiding radicalisation. in this day and age, education in emergencies and protracted crises has become particularly urgent. think of the syrian children, who can only remember a country at war. it is essential to teach them about their country’s incredible diversity and about centuries of peaceful coexistence. a peaceful and diverse future for syria also depends on their education. next year, we will devote 8% of the eu’s humanitarian budget to education in emergencies. in the syria crisis, the eu’s contribution to education is over eur 1 billion, through the various financing instruments we have put in place since the beginning of the conflict. let me conclude on another part of our work against violence on christians that may not be as evident, but which is just as important. in many parts of the world, a sustainable future for christians and other religious groups depends on the work we are doing today for peace, for national reconciliation, for inclusive institutions. syria, again, is the clearest example. we are working every day to help syrians find a political solution to the war and build a country where all syrians, including christians, can feel at home. diversity, respect and inclusiveness are not abstract concepts. to millions of people, they can make the difference between persecution and security, between fear and freedom, between life and death. i know this parliament understands this, and we truly count on your support to continue our fight against all forms of violence and discrimination.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the statistics we read are terrible. there are over 215 million christians in the world who cannot enjoy their rights. north korea is at the top of the list. under kim jong-un's regime, 300,000 christians are living in total hiding and 50,000 of them are locked up in forced labour camps. in north korea, just having a bible is a lifetime in one of these camps. fewer and fewer north korean christian refugees are able to escape because of china's ruthless policy of sending them back to their country where their chances of survival are non-existent. there are many other examples of this type. the situation of christians in africa is terrible. in somalia, for example, the terrorist group al-shabab has set itself the task of eliminating all christians. in sudan, the government plans to demolish 27 churches and so on... so we really have to tell it like it is. i do not agree with the commissioner who relates all these situations. it must be said that the defence of religious freedom must be at the centre of our external relations. this is not the case today and we must not hide this fact. i also recall the tragic situation of christians in the territories of ancient mesopotamia, syria and iraq: they have lost everything and will not be able to return home safely.
in writing. i followed with particular interest the intervention of the high representative for foreign affairs on the persecution of christians in some parts of the world. i fully agree that these persecuted communities need to be supported. but i would like to draw attention to the fact that, in many cases, the persecution of a minority is also linked to the situation of that group in its country or area of origin. and if it can be said that europe was the continent of christianity, we can ask ourselves how worthy christianity is today in europe. of course, europe long ago separated church and state. we're used to giving caesar what's caesar's. but do we give to god what is god's? what we find every day is that we europeans are the first to indirectly persecute christianity. in the press, on the street, and even in institutions, christian values are considered reactionary, stale, outdated. if we treat christianity that way, why should others treat it with more respect? let us learn to respect christianity and christians here in europe! then we'll have the moral authority to defend him all over the world!
thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, concerned about the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services, the european union adopted in 2011 the eu biodiversity strategy, which commits the community to halting the loss of diversity by 2020. it is known that, under the impact of anthropogenic pressures, many marine species are facing a decline in population and a decrease in range and habitat, which brings to the attention of the european union the need for further measures and actions in the field of marine environment protection. this is because marine protected areas are the ecological foundation of the blue economy, as stated in the commission's report of 1 october 2015 on progress in the creation of marine protected areas. this question concerns a species of grass, posidonia oceanica, which is not only one of the most sustainable and productive species in the biosphere, but also, according to researchers from the university of the algarve in portugal and the french institute for the exploration of the seas, the oldest living organism in the world, with more than two hundred thousand years, with a positive impact on the conservation of biodiversity. but posidonia oceanica is one of the most endangered species of seaweed because it grows at a very slow rate and needs a long time to recover from destruction. it is clear that new measures for the protection and regeneration of posidonia oceanica must be the result of data and information on the evolution of coastal marine habitats, as well as the evaluation of programmes and actions already undertaken by the european union, directly or indirectly, in terms of investments and impact on the protection of coastal marine habitats and the conservation of biodiversity. the commission should promote research at european level on the protection of coastal marine habitats, environmental education and governance structures favourable to the inclusion of marine protected areas. the commission should also support member states through the european union's financial mechanisms for the conservation and sustainable use of coastal marine biodiversity. thank you. thank you.
mr president the union's cohesion policy creates opportunities for the poorer member states and regions to catch up, in the interests of the whole european union and all its inhabitants. however, the current nuts 2 statistical planning has its limitations and it is often the case that territorial disparities within a region or a member state increase. this, and economic fragmentation, has, of course, also had demographic consequences. the solution may be to take this into account when assessing cohesion resources, but the member state authorities have no control in this area, so that lack of or poor planning contributes to the growth of territorial disparities. consideration should also be given to taking greater account of nuts level 3 as the serious disturbances within larger regions are masked by potentially favourable statistics, which are however due to the performance of only a few poles of development.
in writing. demographic change is a challenge facing european society today, closely linked in its causality to the effects of globalisation, the benefits of the free movement of people within the single european area and, not least, to population ageing. these demographic imbalances affect both urban and rural areas, and migration trends towards more developed regions have led to population movements resulting in depopulation of poorer areas. in this context, investment through the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy has been targeted in priority to poorer regions and rural areas. the aim was to strengthen infrastructure, access to services, encourage investment in rural areas and, in particular, attract young people to the agricultural sector, with some positive results. demographic change should therefore be a priority in the revision of the regulations of the funds financing the reduction of territorial disparities. for the period after 2020, investment in basic infrastructure in depopulated areas and access to digital technologies is still required. i believe that gdp should remain the main indicator for the classification of areas with major and permanent demographic challenges, alongside other relevant demographic indicators of an economic and social nature.
in writing. the demographic changes facing europe and the imbalances they may generate at european level risk undermining the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. as such, i believe that a review of current policies is needed to make demographically challenged territories accessible and competitive. specific measures are needed to encourage young people to stay in their region and thus ensure a sustainable renewal of generations. on the other hand, cohesion policy must promote the employability and inclusion of women, especially mothers who have difficulty finding a job, which is why women need access to training and education programmes in order to be able to respond to labour market needs on the one hand, and reliable and continuous childcare structures for children of all ages, including for pre-school education, on the other. in addition, the implementation of the eu smart cities action plan, which requires that policies pay particular attention to closing the digital divide between rural and urban areas and to develop the potential of connectivity and digitisation in rural areas, will be beneficial.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i protest against the confusing measures taken by the romanian government in the field of taxation. i want to draw attention to the economic and social instability caused by the social democratic party. the disruption of the social security system and the taxation of personal income has succeeded in displeasing both the trade unions and employers. six million employment contracts will be affected by the amendment of the tax code by an emergency ordinance whose constitutionality is contested. even the european commission warned last week that romania's economy would be affected by current government policies. according to the commission's forecast, romania risks a worrying budget deficit in the coming years, despite the growth of gross domestic product based on private consumption. public investment is sacrificed and foreign investors are shunned by legal uncertainty. unfortunately, the incompetence of the governors is seriously damaging the romanian economy.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the implementation of cohesion policy is one of the major challenges facing the european union. at the same time, these policies also represent a huge opportunity for development, for reducing disparities and, crucially, for people's well-being. for my country, romania, even if absorption can certainly be improved, the availability of cohesion funds is a priority. it is an undeniable fact that a high percentage of the sums allocated through the cohesion funds return to the so-called net contributor countries in various forms, such as purchases of goods and services from those member states. for these reasons, i believe that maintaining a high level of resources available under these policies remains absolutely essential for everyone. i therefore invite you to use all the means at your disposal to support a level of cohesion funding in the next budgetary year at least equal to the current level.
madam president, the problem is that if a few years ago we didn't have laws to fight against big companies that hide their profits or against the rich who don't want to pay taxes and use all kinds of financial schemes, now we have these laws. of course they can be improved, of course more can be done, but the 2015 directive had to be implemented in all member states by june 2017. there are still member states of the european union where we have, for example, bearer companies, with hidden shareholding, which in ten years have taken five hundred million euro contracts from public money, which have taken over one hundred and forty million euro contracts without a bidding process and are in the european union, and even more access to european funds, and the 2015 anti-money laundering directive is still not implemented and we are in the european union and we say we are fighting tax havens. we are not fighting, madam president.
madam president, please. i am convinced that the operation of offshore paradises does not cause the greatest damage to the budgets of states or the careers and credibility of political leaders and celebrities. the phenomenon which cannot be hidden from the public in our time represents the greatest threat to democracy and the free market economy. when it becomes apparent to the masses that the elites who run societies are not following the rules of the game - even when they are not supposed to break the laws - it leads to a fatal loss of trust. when it becomes clear that the principle of public burden is just a nice-sounding phrase, but wealthy people and corporations find loopholes to avoid paying taxes while asking people to make further sacrifices, it is not surprising that the reactions are there. politics in representative democracies must be about the interests of the people, so it is not enough to invoke laws, but it is necessary to eliminate this practice and forget about hypocrisy.
madam president, commissioner, we have been discussing a very important subject for two hours. we have discussed it before. if i were to analyse the commission's position and the council's position, i would obviously agree with all the commissioner's proposals. you are right: we must go through the pockets of those who are stealing money from the citizens because they impoverish national budgets and people suffer, but, mr minister, i did not understand the council's position: you informed us that we have a steering group. it's not helping. you must be firm in the council and persuade the finance ministers and persuade the governments to take action, to be transparent on the one hand and on the other hand to cooperate with international bodies because yes, money is transferred before the european union and we cannot talk about combating tax evasion here unless we have that blacklist that the commissioner was talking about, unless we have harmonised legislation and unless we fight together, not each country alone, but together.
in writing. the new evidence on the extent of tax evasion revealed by the paradise papers confirms once again the collusion between banks, consultancies, law firms and tax havens with one goal: the rich not to pay taxes where they live and are tax residents. why can't we stop this phenomenon that is harmful to any country? the answer is simple: the beneficiaries are governments, large industrial and financial concerns, and they have the power to block any serious move to end transfers and financial transactions through 'post office box' firms registered in tax havens. it's a challenge to all citizens who pay their taxes in their countries and it has to be stopped.
mr president, commissioner, i want to congratulate you from the outset for coming up with the proposal to revise the regulation. i would like to congratulate our colleague, olga, who worked extremely hard to reach compromises and amendments that would help, because as one of my colleagues said: 'we have a lot of regulations, it is important to make them effective'. i do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said, but i would like to stress three things: firstly, i think it is good that the report sets out the limitation period for exercising certain powers in the event of an infringement; it is a reasonable five-year period and i think it is welcome; secondly, i believe that we must support, and this report provides for, the participation of consumer organisations, for example in the alert mechanism as provided for in article 34, because entities representing a legitimate interest in consumer protection often become aware of infringements much faster than the authorities; and thirdly, i believe that the submission of biannual enforcement plans by each member state is very welcome.
in writing. – i strongly support the outcome of this highly important report, which builds on the proposal of reforming a pivotal piece of legislation, the so-called consumer protection cooperation (cpc) regulation that governs the powers of enforcement authorities and the way in which they can cooperate in order to ensure effective surveillance, investigation and prosecution of cross-border breaches of consumer law. indeed, the increased momentum of e—commerce as well as widespread consumer law infringements across the internal market call for an overhaul of the regulation, so that the latter does not fall short of what would be needed in order to ensure strong and enforceable consumer rights for everyone in the european union. therefore, welcoming the reform proposal, i share the opinion that the commission has rightly put the spotlight on the powers needed by the enforcement authorities in all member states, which will certainly underpin proper cross-border cooperation. finally, i consider that a structured dialogue between public enforcers and consumer associations is paramount as these entities very often become aware of infringements much earlier than the competent authorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important report and i believe that people's lives cannot be put before anything else and i believe that road safety is in our and the commission's interest because it is important. i also said in the debate that i think we need to take account of who is influencing transport security. - on the one hand, the quality of the infrastructure. if we do not link programmes, such as the european funds, the structural funds, the strategic investment fund, to improve infrastructure, there will continue to be accidents and families losing their lives on the roads of the european union. we also need to take into account the improvement of driver skills and this training must be uniform, otherwise we cannot talk about mobility in the single market. i support the report and congratulate the rapporteur and hope that we will actually have an improvement in road safety.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, thousands of people have taken to the streets demanding justice for daphne caruana galizia, who was killed, i recall, in the crusade against corruption in malta. they protested against corruption that kills. her colleagues said: "the killers did not kill her spirit, they will not be able to silence us all!" and the people shouted: "don't take democracy to the desert!" what happened after dahpne died? the paradise papers came out, and we have over 13 million new documents showing us the enormous scale of corruption and money laundering. it is happening here, under our eyes and in europe, and with our complicity, if we do nothing. daphne was right, and that's why she died. we are complicit because we are not fighting to the end, if we are not fighting to the end, for the abolition of tax havens, for the abolition of bearer shares, for total public access to the real beneficiaries of the shares in all private and state companies and for many other things that could eliminate this war against the people, of honest people, this war of those who get rich and make billions through corruption, fraud, money laundering and manage to escape the law. we have not been silenced and we will go further and further with daphne's spirit in us.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, you said that the commissioner had stated that there was a critical situation at the meeting in buenos aires and you also mentioned the future agreements we must make: with japan, with chile, with mercosur. what do you think are the critical points with regard to future trade agreements? do you think we need to make trade deals, and if so, what are the critical points you see?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to start by highlighting the importance of an efficient and strategic eastern partnership for the security and stability not only of our partners, but also of our union, and this is the right place to welcome and applaud the commitment, the energy and the vision of the estonian presidency in building such an opportunity for all of us. the importance of these countries is shown by the way other actors like russia behave when we try to bring them closer to the european project. we have already managed to achieve a lot and to show the benefits to our partners, including visa liberalisation, the freedom to travel across europe, and economic exchange which has only increased in recent years. and yes, more appetite for the democratic functioning of their societies. but here, referring to the shopping list, i will start first by referring to the frozen conflicts. we have and we need to have the courage to discuss the frozen conflicts because these are the ones which destabilise not only those countries, but equally, the region, and have a negative impact on our union as well. in addition, let’s not forget hybrid threats and cyber—threats to our partners and the daily propaganda campaigns that destabilise and negatively affect the perception of our union within those societies by trying to destabilise the functioning of the institutions. the november summit should enhance east stratcom capabilities and focus on the way to fully promote the principles of democracy, the rule of law and good governance. in a nutshell, all the advantages of eu integration. but let’s be open, let’s be wise and be strategically driven, to treat the region not in terms of how much money we spend but of how many strategic benefits we take out of this more stable, better functioning region. this is our duty, and we are the only ones who can do that. at the same time, we must also be ready to give all the support and assistance required without ignoring the specificity of each and every country. i wish us every success.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, i always appreciated very much your interventions on issues like the eastern partnership. don’t you think that it might be time for the european union to differentiate, among the member countries of the eastern partnership, between those countries that have or could have the possibility in the future to join the european union, and other eastern partnership countries that will never join the european union?
mr president, commissioner, the eastern partnership summit, one of the european union's few successful projects in foreign policy, is bound to continue and is bound to be strengthened and supported because it is imperative that the security situation in the area, a rather delicate situation in a rather turbulent period, be maintained, a matter which is also beneficial for the european union. it is also important that this partnership includes elements of economic cooperation and it is very important to support the european aspirations of the three states and to strengthen democratic standards and cooperation with the other two states that have chosen less than the other three states. we must not forget that these countries are former soviet republics and the data, the geopolitical reality and the security in the area is not one that makes us abdicate and behave beyond what a partnership relationship means. these countries need support, they are fragile democracies, their economic situation, the vast majority of them, is precarious, and if the european union wants them to join it, it will have to support them.
mr president, it is now time to take stock of the different choices and the specific progress made by the six countries. we can no longer ignore the gap and the divergence in ambition and aspirations. the new state of play must be reflected at the summit and in our policy. the three associated partners, moldova, georgia and ukraine, have made substantial progress on eu reforms while also making a clear strategic choice and political commitment. they have real and tangible european ambitions – they are simply part of europe. this is why it is high time to inject a new dynamic into the eastern partnership and to set a clear political vision by doing more for those who have decided to join the european path and who deliver. this is the spirit of the eap+ model and the trust fund, and we expect the council and commission to embrace this new vision.
on november 24th, at the summit, we have to say to the eastern partnership countries two things clearly: firstly, we are with them, we want them to come to europe on the path of european integration because only in europe is there democracy, peace, true justice and justice for all and individual prosperity. i know it's very hard, the struggle between communism and democracy, and it's very hard for them to break away from communism, but we help them and we are with them. the second thing we have to make very clear is that they will only join the union under certain conditions. we no longer accept the double language of union money and paper reforms. people want to see real reform and so do we. one more thing i would like to mention briefly: the fake russian propaganda that is everywhere in these countries and that is very harmful. they present the european union, for example, as collapsing or even absurd claims like we're banning snowmen in the european union. so this propaganda can no longer be accepted, we have to come up with clever means, with people who are good at communication, to overturn these lies about the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the eastern partnership cannot be questioned, it is based on a commitment between the european union and the countries that are part of the eastern partnership, and i believe that we must focus on how we are going to look ahead at the next summit in november, how we can inspire a new force for action and establish a clear political vision for the future of the eastern partnership as a long-term policy, to ensure that the outcome of this summit will be a top priority, a basis for respecting the fundamental values of the european union. we must and it is necessary to also check whether all the commitments already made by the member states are being respected and, of course, it has been said here and i would also like to stress the need for ukraine to review the education law because yes, there are citizens who live there and cannot study in their own language. but i believe that we, the european union, must work together with our partner countries for greater mobility, support moldova, georgia, ukraine in the implementation of the visa liberalisation agreement and take steps to ensure that suspension mechanisms are not activated in the future, in particular through close cooperation in the field of police and customs.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the outcome of this very important report, which comes at a time when some political and economic partnership between europe and africa is gaining momentum, and when the need to provide the latter with a new vision is becoming increasingly more pronounced. resilience should be one of the concepts lying at the core of the new eu—africa strategy. i share the opinion that future cooperation, for which an intensified political dialogue acts as a precondition, should focus on key areas such as economic development, good governance, human development, migration, the environment, and security and the fight against terrorism. moreover, i emphasise the importance of adapting a holistic approach to migration, and i particularly welcome the line drawn between development aid and cooperation in migration matters. finally, having in mind the very strong ties between the european union and the african countries, i would like to reiterate the need for a boosted commitment from the eu’s side in helping the african continent to be stabilised and attract major investment through, for example, the european fund for sustainable development – a very important eu instrument to boost development.
i would like to remind everybody that in reality we were not forced to join the european union.
mr korwin-mikke, you have a request... (mówca zgodził się odpowiedzieć na pytanie zadane przez podniesienie niebieskiej kartki (art. 162 ust. 8 regulaminu)) (interjection from the floor: ‘no!’) no? listen, colleagues. the only person who has the right to accept or not to accept is mr korwin-mikke. we said it would be one blue card per speaker, and mr korwin-mikke accepts the request from ms becerra basterrechea.
colleagues, we are 15 minutes behind schedule so i want to remind you of this. if you agree, we could stop the blue cards, because some of them are not answered, others are rhetorical, so i think it would help if we stopped the blue cards. if you are in agreement with me in this respect, we will go that way.
two things: the spanish government is respecting its constitution... (interjection from mr annemans: ‘you are not in the debate, mr president.’) ... and secondly, i would ask you to use normal terms. do not offend the speakers before you. that is what i wanted to say to you.
blue-card question. – mr lenaers, you mentioned the terrible situations and conditions that the migrants were facing. it seems that each and every time when winter approaches, we come up with this winter plan for asylum seekers. don’t you think that, besides general conditions like stepping up the relocation of asylum seekers and supporting family reunification and integration, the commission and the council should have to come up with a blueprint, a plan for long-term solutions for asylum seekers? so that we do not just have this kind of situation where we try to address these terrible situations that we are facing, don’t you think?
madam president, please. we often adopt resolutions to protect the lives and personal safety of journalists in non-eu countries, usually developing countries. and while we don't emphasize enough that in an eu member state, the victims of a reckoning can be media workers who expose issues that are uncomfortable for the political or economic elite. we have often criticized turkey or russia for their violence against journalists, so the case of malta shows that we in the eu have a role to play in this area. i think it's not just in malta that a journalist can be the victim of a reckoning, but in today's open world, there are threats to fact-finding and investigative reporting everywhere. it is time to set an example in protecting journalists by getting the authorities to investigate and find those responsible. otherwise, we will be rightly singled out by those we accuse of trampling on press freedom to solve our own problems first.
madam president, i supported the motion for this resolution and i'm glad it passed. i am always careful when we discuss the internal political situation in a member state and adopt a resolution on it. but in this case, it is a matter that the european institutions must clearly monitor and condemn. it is absolutely unprecedented that a journalist has been murdered on european union territory, ms. galizia. it is a very serious matter and the european union must not remain silent about it, and it is good that we are clearly defending the rule of law here and clearly want the maltese authorities to investigate this situation. it is also good that we are addressing other problems related to the rule of law in malta, such as money laundering. the principles of the rule of law are among the fundamental principles, the fundamental values of the european union. these are the fundamental values of europe and we must defend them as such.
the world trade organization aims to liberalise services and wants to encourage a flow of services and market access. since the launch of the doha round in 2001, the world has changed. new challenges such as e-commerce, digital commerce or investment transparency need to be brought into line with reality. what do we want? we want a flow of services without barriers, we want a business environment where they can grow and have access to the market. this is done through easier access, cheaper, reduced costs, reduced administrative burden, reduced customs procedures, including for business people and smes in romania. moreover, all this can only be built when we have legal stability and fiscal stability.
madam president, the member states of the union must act and speak with one voice and without hidden agreements with the russian federation, in order to be a single and clear and transparent partner for the eastern partnership countries that are still struggling to emerge from communism. let's not forget, crimea is under russian control, people are still dying in eastern ukraine, and those who fight for the russians in ukraine are trained in transnistria. russian propaganda must be countered again, second by second. for example, they portray the european union as a dictatorship, while the dictatorship is in the russian federation. following the signing of the association agreements, the union became the main partner for georgia, moldova, ukraine. in ukraine, for example, trade between ukraine and the union increased by more than 27% in the period january to august 2017 alone, while moldovan exports increased by more than 15%. one more thing i would like to say: partnership is a long-term policy and its evolution depends on the real reforms that they make and that people need to feel in their pockets, in the doctor, in the administration, on the streets, in their cars, in their daily lives.
madam president, i supported this report because, as the member for the czech republic, i personally consider it very important that we develop the eastern partnership. in the future, i would be even more ambitious in working together with the countries that have joined the european union. i consider it very important to support georgia, ukraine and moldova in their efforts to move closer to the european union. if we fail to make a genuine effort, russia's influence in the region will continue to grow and we must simply want these countries to take the path of democracy, freedom, the rule of law and a market economy, rather than to strengthen the various authoritarian regimes that are then supported by russia. so i welcome that and i'm also glad that it clearly condemns some of russia's activities in this region, first of all the occupation of crimea.
madam president, the action plan for nature, people and the economy must be implemented to conserve the environment, which is essential for each of us, for our lives. we also want clean water, we want healthy food that's not full of chemicals, we want buildings that don't poison us, and so on. earth's resources are becoming increasingly scarce and the right information of people is vital, because people must demand that governments apply correctly european laws which today are not even fully applied. they should also ask governments to force the food, energy, chemical, automotive, building materials or environmental industries not to influence the policies of member states and to fund re-technologising so that it protects our lives and does not kill us.
mr president, i would like to begin by addressing first of all the gentleman from the communist group who was unhappy because we had a minute of silence in memory of the victims. i would remind them that half of europe has kept silent for fifty years about what is happening behind the iron curtain and they should remember this, especially since, for the time being, communism has only existed in totalitarian form. so when you feel that you have to claim from communism, you claim directly from the crimes committed in the name of the ideology that you represent. there is something else that should be discussed very openly and precisely in this room: some of the communist parties in central and eastern europe turned into social democratic parties in the early 1990s, they even took the names of those they hated the most during the history of communism, some of them are here with us in this chamber and otherwise they often have no problem associating with the communists and voting together in the name of a bright future. this is what we should be talking about, the inability to accept criticism, the refusal to accept the separation of powers, the desire to take justice into one's own hands in many of the former communist countries. these are the questions that the creators of homo sovieticus left us because, as svetlana alexievich said, the only communist project that has succeeded is the creation of homo sovieticus, and we are paying the costs of this creation each of us in europe.
mr. president, the red holocaust claimed a hundred million lives. in his "black book of communism", martin malia said that the number of victims of communist regimes is between 85 and 100 million people. in its 2006 resolution, the council of europe condemned the totalitarian communist regimes in central and eastern europe over the last century, which were marked without exception by massive violations of human rights, and mentioned assassinations and executions, concentration camps, torture, starvation, deportations, unjust imprisonment, imprisonment of those who opposed the political regime, i.e. communism, forced labour, persecution on ethnic or religious grounds and, of course, violations of freedom of conscience, expression and others. it should have then, in 2006, maybe even earlier, gone all the way and banned communism. why didn't we ban communism then? it must be banned as fascism was banned.
mr president, this year marks the centenary of the russian totalitarian revolution. it is indeed 100 years since that bolshevik coup in russia. what, at the time, looked like a small group of ideological extremists was soon established as a totalitarian communist regime. in order to strengthen … i am sorry, can i speak please? it seems that some discussions are going on in the chamber. in order to strengthen the resilience of european democracies, it is important to reflect on the lessons of the past century and on the current challenges to democracy in europe and worldwide. it is constructive to review the consequences of that revolution, which was a time when people attempted to assert their rights, but in the end their voices were ultimately pushed away. drawing on conclusions about the present, we forecast and build a future, relying on things of which we are ‘certain’ only in relation to the past. taking into account the current challenges the european continent faces, the eu has to provide long-term solutions by building bridges and defending and promoting democratic values: free elections, the market economy and human rights. there are millions of witnesses from central and eastern europe who could give testimony on what happened in that part of europe between the end of world war ii and 1989.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the event we are talking about today is a disastrous event in history that has led to dictatorship, suffering, terrible crimes that have changed the fate of people not only in russia and the former soviet space, but also in the countries of central and eastern europe and other continents. romania, my country, suffered under communism, the social and political elites were destroyed, those who opposed collectivization were imprisoned or killed, the reminiscences, unfortunately, have not disappeared even today in the mentality of some politicians who still have a leadership role. in the end, fortunately, the will of the people could not be defeated by an ideology and a form of government. without necessarily drawing a parallel and keeping, of course, the proportions, we cannot, however, in the context of today's debate, not think about the radicalism, the extremism, the populism that is haunting europe today. we see today populist and nationalist parties coming up with solutions that actually worsen the social reality more than they create welfare. the societies in which we live are challenged by populist and emotional campaigns that seek to exacerbate people's justified fears and grievances, which through misinformation and distorted reflections of reality are actually trying to profit for political gain. the solution is to continue to promote democracy, individual freedom, the rule of law, to promote solidarity and not hatred, tolerance and not totalitarianism.
in writing. – let me share with you, in 60 seconds, what the legacy of the bolshevik revolution meant for my country - romania! executions, physical suppression of political opponents, terror campaigns, expropriations and possessions’ confiscation, famine, labor camps. 300.000 killed, starting with 1945. still, the loss of human lives is just one of the many ways communism destroyed countries and destinies. hundreds of thousands more were deported, arrested, imprisoned, sent to force labor, tortured. for some of these victims there are no records. the second world war ended in 1945. for romania, it continued until august 1958. the red army came in 1944 to liberate romania and it kept on doing so for 14 years! romania was forced to abolish a world-recognised and flourishing monarchy and change it with an isolated and decaying communist dictatorship. the terror did not end in 1958. the dictatorship and repression carried on until december 1989. let me conclude by adding that one of the most despicable crimes of these 45 years of communism in romania was the physical elimination of the elites. elites that formed over 200 years of history!
in writing. the bolshevik revolution has had a tremendous impact on the world and europe, but it has had the greatest impact on those countries besides the former soviet union where communist dictatorships have caused suffering to millions of people. in 11 of the 28 member states of the european union, they have lived under such totalitarian regimes and state-party dictatorships, under the conditions of a planned economy for more than 40 years. this legacy is still felt in the new eu member states: economic disparities have not disappeared, and these societies and economic systems are at a huge disadvantage because of the communist legacy, whether we look at the rules of competition in the common market or the phenomenon of labour migration within the union. what is missing from our social evolution is the 40 years in which western europe built infrastructure, strengthened societies and developed the european model of the welfare state. the reunification of europe is therefore not a momentary but a continuous process, and it is precisely the damage caused by the consequences of the bolshevik revolution that must be remedied.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the second mobility package is indeed an ambitious package which subscribes to the wider strategy of renewing the european union's industrial policy and to the objectives of achieving modern european transport. our objective is to enable our industries to become world leaders in innovation, digitalisation and decarbonisation. but i would like to focus today on just two aspects: the battery initiative is of strategic importance and i welcome the commission's decision. in the long term, we need to reduce our dependence on other countries, and this can only happen if vehicles and their components are designed and produced in europe; carbon dioxide emission reduction standards: we will need to think carefully about the optimal level. i support the idea of drawing up a clear direction that supports investment but also takes into account the possibilities of each member state. as regards the mobility package as a whole, things remain sensitive and i again call on the commission and my colleagues to carefully consider the impact of the new measures on the single market, but also on companies in eastern europe. clean mobility is essential for our future, but it's equally important that we don't shut down the companies that provide this mobility.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, some of you have said that the commission's proposal is too little ambitious, others that it is too ambitious. i'm going to say that it needs to be realistic and i want to make some arguments. i'm glad you have this concern, i'm glad your proposal is moderate because we need to think with a broader vision how we can make these changes without disrupting not just the car industry - here we're talking about an entire industry: the suppliers, the small and medium-sized businesses that make semi-finished products, that make accessories, that make spare parts. so i agree that transport needs to reduce the 4% that it currently contributes to pollution, but we need to think about the investment, the technology, we need to talk about the infrastructure that is missing, and maybe you, commissioners, are thinking not about how to switch to cars, but how to switch to electrified railways, how to switch from road transport to rail, and of course, how to think about national and local budgets as those means of transport that make public transport services the first to switch to fuel, whether it's electric or alternative fuel.
ombudsman. – mr president, i would like to thank ms mizzi and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report and to thank them once again for their strong support, which i greatly value. this is my fourth time of addressing the honourable members in plenary. we draw inspiration, honourable members, from your work as you reflect the concerns of the citizens that you represent and it is my role also to try to deal with similar concerns of citizens. i also very much welcome the presence again of first vice—president timmermans to this debate and i thank him for his support for my work. as you know, a majority of the complaints that we receive are directed at the commission, given its role and its high level of interaction with citizens. the commission continues to engage positively with my office and, while no relationship is ever perfect, we both do our best to deal with challenging issues. this report, however, shows that increasing attention is being paid by my office to the council. rising public awareness of its role and greater demands for transparency have prompted this additional scrutiny and perhaps in future years parliament might consider inviting a council representative also to attend this very valuable annual hearing. today’s draft report expresses support for my strategic inquiry into the transparency of the council’s working parties and coreper committees and a positive outcome would help, i hope, to dispel the perception that eu institutions are not transparent and therefore not sufficiently accountable. citizens are not always aware that the council is not just a so—called ‘brussels institution’. as the french president macron said recently, ‘brussels is us’ and greater council transparency will, i believe, lessen the temptation to blame brussels for decisions taken by member state ministers and governments as citizens will see precisely where responsibility lies. i fully appreciate how hard it can be to get consensus or a majority vote on some matters, but when parliament and the commission are clear on where they stand, it can be frustrating to citizens when the failure of the council to reach a common approach, or even take a vote, means that some proposals remain stalled, sometimes indefinitely. it is, for example, now over a year since the commission made its proposal for an improved transparency register and parliament agreed its negotiation mandate earlier this year. however, the council is now delayed in agreeing its mandate to enter talks. i very much welcome the efforts of the estonian presidency to unblock the impasse and i very much hope that agreement can be reached before the elections in 2019. transparency in itself, of course, cannot deal with every union problem, but it can throw light not just on the respective responsibilities of the eu institutions, but also dispel some of the false facts and fake news that increasingly impact on the way in which the eu is mediated, and i note and welcome first vice—president timmermans’ announcement this week of a public consultation on this matter. fake news is ultimately about influencing, with a view to undermining, the democratic process. lobbying transparency can help to reassure citizens that when it comes to the influencing of the eu institutions, measures are in place to help to mitigate its more negative impacts. other transparency work by my office in 2016 included an exchange with eurogroup president dijsselbloem, encouraging moves to open up the work of that very important group. obviously, as the eurogroup is not officially an eu institution, my mandate is limited, but i did welcome the president’s initiative in attempting to further the transparency of its decision-making. many citizens were concerned about what they perceived as the lack of accountability of the troika and similar concerns are at times expressed about the eurogroup and indeed about the council. greater accountability through transparency is an obvious way to help to rectify this citizen alienation. i continue to raise awareness among my colleagues in the european network of ombudsmen about important eu issues. last june, i hosted our annual network conference in brussels at which we discussed open government, populism in europe and, of course, brexit. i wish to thank first vice—president timmermans for his keynote speech. it meant a lot to colleagues from all of your member states to be able to have that direct engagement and i have rarely heard such lively post—seminar conversation. i would also like to thank ms cecilia wikström and other meps for their support for these events and their much appreciated contributions to them. this report today also recognises the work of my office in several other areas. these include the transparency of the brexit talks, continued work with the ecb and the eib, an ongoing inquiry vis—à-vis the commissioners’ code of conduct, improvements to which the commission has already proposed, a new ombudsman’s guide for eu officials on dealing with lobbyists, our work on the eu whistle—blowing rules to protect eu staff, an inquiry into the commission eu pilot programme for infringement, the ongoing work with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the european citizens’ initiative, which the commission is now revising. let me also briefly mention some routine cases dealt with in 2016. there was a complaint from the polish research institute, which undertook three eu co—financed projects. the institute turned to us after the commission decided to recover some costs related to the subcontracting of the work. however, following our inquiry and a document inspection, the commission agreed to waive the recovery of around eur 86 000. a spanish citizen complained about the lack of translation of commission public consultations. the commission agreed that public consultations relating to their work programme priorities will in future be in all eu languages. another case in 2015 was when the european chemicals agency agreed to our proposal to require those seeking to register chemicals to show that they have tried to avoid animal testing. these are just three of the over 1 800 complaints we dealt with in 2016. we have also been revising our internal working procedures and working methods. i wish to thank both the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control for recognition of this work. we will soon be launching a fast-track procedure for dealing with access to document complaints so that we can get answers for citizens within weeks instead of months or even, in some cases unfortunately, years. next year we plan to request a moderate budget increase to hire extra multilingual staff. this is due to the fact that we are experiencing a sizable increase in complaints this year. we believe we have implemented large efficiency reforms internally and now need that extra capacity to really improve again our service to citizens. finally, i wish to note again the high standards of the eu civil service. indeed to recognise that work and to share best practice across the institutions, we launched in 2016 the ombudsman award for good administration, receiving over 90 nominations. the award ceremony was particularly memorable and i was struck by the great pride of the officials in their work and their joy in having it recognised at a time when so much of what they do is either unseen or criticised. thank you again to the rapporteur ms mizzi, the shadow rapporteurs, their staff and the secretariats for all the work on this year’s report, which i and my staff greatly appreciate. thank you to the members of parliament who, through their active engagement with the office, helped make our positive work more effective.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank marlene mizzi for a really excellent report which helps us improve the service we provide to our citizens. it also gives me the opportunity to join marlene mizzi in expressing my admiration for the work done by ms o’reilly as our ombudsman and the progress she has made with her office in 2016. she has helped us to prevent, identify and solve instances of maladministration by the eu institutions, and every citizen has a right to good administration. it is indeed a fact that the commission is one of the main addressees of the ombudsman’s inquiries and that we comply with her recommendations or suggestions whenever possible. sometimes we disagree and explain why, but such cases remain limited. the overall compliance rate is very high at 82%. both the ombudsman and the report call for greater transparency. i am in full agreement on this. the eu institutions must meet the high transparency standards that citizens rightly expect. we live in a different society. we are no longer in a ‘trust me’ society. we are in a ‘show me’ society, and our citizens ask us to explain what we do in full transparency on a daily basis. as you know, this commission decided to apply the highest transparency standards upon itself. a key principle is that lobbyists can only meet commissioners, their staff and directors-general if they are in the transparency register. no registration means no meeting. but we need to go further. the register must become mandatory for lobbyists. this can only happen if that same principle is applied across the board in all three institutions – the commission, parliament and the council. for example, a lobbyist who is not in the register should not be able to meet a member of the european parliament. only then would registration become truly a sine qua non for lobbying the institutions. so i call on both the council and this parliament to commit to the same standards in the forthcoming interinstitutional agreement following the commission’s proposal of september 2016. as ms o’reilly has explained, we are still waiting for the council to adopt its mandate, and it really is high time for us to be able to start negotiating about this. it would really be a shame if we did not finish this before the next european elections. the report also touches upon access to documents and publication of information. each year we proactively make public tens of thousands of new documents on our web pages, but we plan to go further, for example, by publishing an overview of each commissioner’s mission expenses every two months. i also fully agree that transparency in trade negotiations is essential to ensure public trust in the eu’s trade policy. this commission took major steps right from the very beginning of its mandate. president juncker announced, in the 2017 state of the union speech, that the commission would publish all its recommendations for negotiating directives for trade agreements. he added that the european parliament, as well as national and regional parliaments, would be kept fully informed from day one of the negotiations. finally, let me stress that the commission is making sure it abides by the highest standards of ethics and integrity, including by updating them when necessary. the draft new code of conduct increases transparency and sets higher standards for commissioners, including on post-mandate activities. it incorporates several suggestions made by the european parliament and the european ombudsman. without her, we would not have been able to reach where we are now. let me conclude by saying very clearly that this work is never finished. we will always have to improve our standards, improve the way we perform and apply the most forward-looking standards in the quality of administration we deliver for our citizens, and an integral part of that is a maximum level of transparency and accountability. i really want to thank ms o’reilly for helping us to reach that level.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i fully agree with what you said, but i would like to ask you about the last part of your speech: do you think that too many rules - and i am now referring to the commissioner's proposal - on the possibility of meps meeting with citizens, with professional associations, do not create a barrier to communication? after all, we meet to discuss and inform. i see this as a barrier to communication between us, the elected - not the appointed commissioners, i'm talking about meps and citizens and professional associations.
i would first like to thank my colleagues for raising these important questions in the discussion with the council and the commission. i would like to highlight two aspects of this discussion. the first is about funding. as rapporteur for the seventh general union environment action programme, i am aware of several cases where funds spent on environmental objectives have not brought the desired results. in some member states there is a lack of money, but at the level of the european union it is not the lack of funds that is the problem, but their poor management. some projects have made worthwhile investments, such as improving the quality of drinking water, but in many other cases the money has simply been wasted. this is very clear from the court of auditors' reports. the commission must act to ensure a more responsible use of the funds it distributes for environmental projects. the second aspect is related to civil society. many ngos i consulted for the report told me that the evaluation of the implementation of environmental policies is limited because it involves only the member states and the commission.
thank you, madam president, commissioner, and i would like to congratulate the colleagues who have asked questions on the evaluation of the implementation of the eir environmental policies. the questions are concrete, and i think if you read them really well, you'll see that you have answers. there are already proposals in these questions, and i'll give two examples. in one of the questions they ask you if you're thinking about having a dashboard. then in another question it's exemplified if you don't think about making an example of good practice between states. the problem is that the states are unequally developed, there are insufficient budgets, both local and national, and, if you think, this would be my question, if you think about giving support where not out of bad faith you can't apply environmental policy, but because of lack of financial resources and can find with the strategic investment fund, with other sources of funding to support the states that can't, not because they won't. and finally, i would like to say that i agree that there should be public access to know what is happening in the member states.
madam president, increased inequality bears direct social costs: it reduces access to labour markets, decreases social mobility, hinders social inclusion and cohesion, and limits the self-fulfilling potential of individuals. it also undermines economic development. it also hampers productivity, especially if those with low incomes suffer poor health or if they do not have adequate access to education. worryingly, inequality has been on the rise recently. this is why it is so important that we deal with all factors determining it, such as the changes in the global economy, regional variations in competitiveness or the lack of structural reforms. devising a cure to such problems also demands that we correctly identify where responsibilities lie, what are the measures member states are responsible for and best placed to take, which are the areas where the eu can give effective support, how we avoid moral hazard, and how we avoid discouraging individual self-reliance. even though it does not always succeed in this task, the report has the merit of listing a great number of sectors where it is imperative to act in order to reduce inequality. key among these, in my opinion, is education. if we want to lay the groundwork for more equal societies and economic success, the first thing we should do is to guarantee well-funded public education and lifelong learning systems.
thank you, madam president, commissioner, i do not think anyone here is questioning the importance of this report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who contributed to the amendments and to the final form of the report. the problem is that yes, we recognise that there is a shared responsibility between the member states and the commission but, commissioner, we have to think about the big policies where we can influence. cohesion policy has not achieved its aim. we have regional disparities not just between states, but within states. and i think we need to continue to increase these cohesion funds. then there are very big problems with the situation of children in poverty and the lack of access, especially in rural areas, of children to education. the tax systems, it's been said here, take a lot of money out of these tax havens. we have debated many times in parliament what we could do to stop this. and finally, the judicial systems of the member states, and here you, the commission, can also influence because if the justice system worked, there could not be so much tax evasion.
madam president, i am here as the coordinator for external affairs of my epp political group. both i and my colleagues support the continuation of the sanctions decided by the european union in recent years against russia. furthermore, i think we should be prepared to introduce other measures if putin's actions require it. i would remind you that these sanctions were decided together with the most important political partners of the european union at international level, including the united states. sanctions have been imposed as a result of very clear actions. only the mp from the national front didn't see them, he saw something else. it's about the annexation by the russian federation of crimea and it's also about russia's direct intervention in eastern ukraine. i repeat, only the national front sees civil war where there is very clear intervention by russia. for three and a half years russia's position has not changed, crimea continues to be under moscow's control, and the minsk agreements are far from being implemented. moreover, every day we are getting confirmation of the efforts of the moscow administration to undermine democratic regimes in a number of european union countries, most recently in spain, in connection with the referendum in catalonia, but other democratic regimes are also being undermined. in this context, to step back means to lose credibility. sanctions have a cost, of course. the ones that putin has introduced by refusing to come to the negotiating table directly affect european farmers and i believe that european farmers must be supported by all possible means to deal with these difficulties created by the irresponsible behaviour of russian leaders.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to welcome the efforts of the colleagues who made this debate possible and, at the same time, i would like to thank commissioner hogan for his efforts to support the agricultural sector. the fruit and vegetable sector has perhaps suffered the most from the russian embargo. its prolongation is likely to cause further major imbalances, including in those member states which have not had direct trade relations with russia. in these countries, as in romania, markets were invaded by vegetables and fruits from countries that traditionally exported to russia, causing significant price falls, which brought local farmers to the brink of bankruptcy. i therefore appreciate the need for a concrete action plan from the commission which takes account of all the member states of the european union, and not just those which have had direct exports to russia. finding new markets remains a challenge for the european commission. we appreciate the trade agreements that have been concluded in this respect, but please bear in mind, commissioner, that the european parliament has made it clear that we cannot agree to other quality standards for agricultural products imported into the european union from third countries. whether in the animal or plant sector, consumers in the european union must be assured that the products they consume have the same quality standards regardless of their origin. i also want to draw attention to the problems that farmers in the member states are still facing today in their dealings with retailers. despite the existence of firm contracts between the parties, with payment no later than seven days after the sale, these conditions are still breached by supermarkets and the cancellation of orders overnight is now a common practice, which creates major difficulties for farmers. in this context, commissioner, i believe it is the european commission's responsibility to ask the member states to strengthen their control mechanisms to avoid the situations described above.
when policy decisions affect economic sectors, those sectors must be supported so that producers have a guaranteed decent income. unfortunately, for the third year running, the russian embargo has generated significant losses for european producers. and because of the persisting volatility in agricultural markets, the russian ban has the consequence that the situation of eu agricultural producers has worsened. the fruit and vegetable sector is suffering from the russian embargo. the eu needs to respond in concert when it comes to its decisions. they therefore ask the commission to take urgent measures to support the sector in order to compensate for the losses incurred and to find alternative markets to absorb the surplus production of fruit and vegetables.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for the opportunity of this debate on the european union-new zealand partnership agreement on relations and cooperation. in the first place, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tannock, for his excellent report and for his engagement throughout the process in parliament. i believe this report gives an excellent overview of the relationships and relations between the european union and new zealand, and is a very good background to inform today’s vote in this parliament on consent to the conclusion of the agreement. as a general remark, let me say that the agreement is the outcome of our efforts to provide a modern framework for relations with one of the european union’s closest partners in the asia-pacific region. european union relations with new zealand are excellent and i sincerely believe they will continue to develop under the new government of prime minister ardern. president tusk has just had a first, very positive exchange of views with the prime minister at the east-asia summit. the european union and new zealand are like-minded partners, and consequently we coordinate closely on a number of international issues. we also have very good development cooperation, especially in the pacific, which focuses mostly on clean energy and climate-change-related projects. in parallel, political dialogue with new zealand has been intensifying and there has been an ever-increasing number of political contacts over the past years. in 2016, the european union upgraded its diplomatic representation in new zealand from chargé d’affaires to ambassador level. we highly appreciate our cooperation in crisis management. in the past, new zealand participated in the european union operations in bosnia and herzegovina, afghanistan and the horn of africa. in 2012, the european union and new zealand signed a framework participation agreement, the first one of the asia-pacific region, which reinforced the eu-new zealand broader partnership and opened new avenues for cooperation. since 2014, a regular strategic security dialogue has been taking place at senior official level. our partnership and cooperation agreement with new zealand upgrades our relationship to make it fit for the 21st century. we share the same views on many global issues, and approach these issues in a similar way. we support democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and are active players in multilateral organisations such as the united nations and the world trade organization. we also have shared interests in tackling key global challenges such as climate change, sustainable development and preserving the environment, in addition to humanitarian aid and the fight against terrorism, to name just these. as regards the economy, we have a shared interest in launching our free-trade agreement (fta) and these negotiations should be launched as soon as possible. we already have dynamic economic relationships and we look forward to expanding our trade links further. our successful preparatory work demonstrates that we see eye to eye on many issues, but let me assure the honourable members that we have had the utmost regard to agricultural sensitivities. in november 2016 the commission released a study on the cumulative impact of future trade agreements in the agricultural sector. the ruminant meat and dairy sectors were identified as more sensitive ones in a possible free-trade agreement with new zealand. these sensitivities are fully reflected in the european union’s trade negotiation strategy for the free-trade agreement. the draft directives for negotiating the fta were published by the commission in september this year and the discussions in the council are ongoing. parliament has fed into these discussions with a dedicated report which was adopted at the end of october. i trust that the council will adopt the negotiating directives soon, which will enable the commission to launch the fta negotiations at the beginning of 2018. the commission looks forward to continuing cooperation with parliament on this matter.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, in a world full of confusion and contradiction, we can count on few certainties. new zealand is one of them. we literally talk about new zealand as a friend with whom we share the same values, even though geographically speaking, we are a world apart. it is only natural that all this should be achieved through political, economic and technological partnership. moreover, this convergence was directly reflected in the excellent cooperation of the political groups during the debate on this report. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr charles tannock, in particular, on the tact and resourcefulness with which he has conducted the preparation of this report. the eu-new zealand partnership agreement on relations and cooperation, which we are voting on today, and the accompanying resolution, can and must open the way to negotiating an eu-new zealand free trade agreement. the commission intends to open these negotiations before the end of the year. it is true that, more recently, the popularity of free trade agreements is not very high, but the advantages and opportunities that free trade agreements open up cannot be denied either statistically or rationally.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr charles tannock, and our colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs (afet), for the very strong and comprehensive text submitted before this house today. parliament values very much the partnership with new zealand, and we look forward to an even more ambitious cooperation. this is the spirit of the report and our contribution. the eu and new zealand are like-minded partners, with common values and interests. the partnership agreement will foster an even more effective bilateral engagement by strengthening political dialogue and improving cooperation in a wide range of areas. new zealand is one of the eu’s closest friends and valued allies. at a time of high international volatility, where mistrust and populists risk undermining multilateralism and the interest of the international community at large, the eu is proud to forge and foster even closer alliances with like-minded nations and long-standing partners like new zealand. the partnership agreement will provide a forward-looking political framework within which eu-new zealand relations and cooperation on sustainable development and a comprehensive range of issues will be developed even further for years to come, in order to match new ambitions and aspirations. i am confident that today’s vote will confirm with a large consensus a strong and substantive text and will reiterate and underline once again the energy and ambition of this longstanding relationship, of which the partnership agreement will now be the most eloquent pillar. many thanks to the rapporteur and colleagues, once again, for their cooperation and support.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, although geographically remote, new zealand is very close in terms of sharing democratic values and high civilization standards with the european union. that explains why for us, and certainly for new zealand, this agreement will be a step forward towards enhanced cooperation. we have a long tradition of economic cooperation. of course, we are the third partner in trade relations, the first being the uk, and, i hope that in the future, after we have a free trade agreement, continental europe will be a much more influential and much more prominent partner in this relationship. we have a long history of cooperation on security, not just bosnia and herzegovina, but other peacekeeping missions have found us together. we have a strong and effective partnership in the fight against terrorism and beyond. climate change, which concerns us all, is also a level of cooperation between the european union and australia. this agreement will therefore, in our view, be significant and will mark a new vision of the european union's vocation as a global player. i want to thank mr. tannock for his cooperation. i think that few reports have had such enhanced cooperation between the political groups, and that is not only because the report reflects our choice of cooperation agreements, but because new zealand is one of the privileged partners in our external relations in all areas of activity.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, on behalf of vice-president mogherini i want to indicate to the house the view of the commission in relation to the matter that has been raised arising from the terrorist attacks in somalia. on 14 october, somalia suffered one of the deadliest terrorist attacks in recent history, when a truck filled with explosives detonated in a busy area of mogadishu. some 350 civilians died and many more were injured. only two weeks later, on 28 october, another deadly terror attack hit mogadishu. the high representative and vice-president federica mogherini spoke to president mohamed abdullahi mohamed (farmajo) to express condolences at both occasions and reaffirm the european union’s long-term commitment to somalia and its people. i am sure everybody in this house will join with me in expressing our sincerest condolences to the victims and their families. terrorist attacks are not uncommon in somalia and the terrorist organisation al-shabaab unfortunately remains a continuous threat to the building of a peaceful and democratic society benefiting the somali people. in the last few years, thanks to the collective work of the somalis themselves, coupled with the support of the international community, somalia – following decades of civil war, clan feuds and disarray – has seen positive political developments. slowly a federal state with institutions is being established. amisom, the african union’s peace-keeping operation, has been essential in providing a security space for political progress to happen. the european union, including its member states, is by far the largest supporter of somalia, with a collective contribution of eur 3.5 billion in 2015 to 2020. the important and positive progress cannot be reversed. it is essential for somalia’s advancement and security, and it is important for stability in the region and beyond. the federal government of somalia now has to show leadership and determination. only political inclusivity, joint commitment and unity between the federal and regional levels will move somalia out of this constant crisis mode. we therefore welcome the recent meetings convened by president farmajo and by prime minister hassan ali khayre between the federal government and the federal member states. the security situation has to be tackled up-front, and the concrete building of a somali-owned security architecture in line with the agreed stability pact has to move forward. equally, the federal project must move forward, fundamentally in finalising the constitutional review to resolve the outstanding issues of power and resource sharing between the federal government and the federal member states. all of these reforms should allow somalia to take ownership of its own security and its own economic potential. in turn, it will create the conditions for amisom’s gradual draw-down.
in writing. – we are all too familiar with the horrific effects of terror in europe in these recent years, yet we must also focus on africa, where terrorism is devastating somalia. the country has suffered another terrorist attack in the form of a truck bomb, which struck mogadishu. in this particular strike, more than 300 people were killed and 500 were injured. this attack is unfortunately another chapter in the story of terrorism in somalia. mogadishu has seen four separate bombings in the year 2017 alone. hundreds have been killed as a result. this issue is a crisis for both somalia and africa. the eu and africa have had a prosperous and beneficial relationship for many years, however that relationship is being jeopardised as a result of these repeated terrorist attacks. in order to ensure a better future for both africa and the eu, we must deliver technical and financial support to the somali government to help them fight terrorism.
madam president, the european parliament has been one of madagascar's constant supporters on the path of consolidating democracy and stabilisation. in december 2013, we sent an election observation mission to madagascar to support the process of ending the five-year political crisis and thus support the malagasy people. i myself participated in this mission and i remember very well how important our presence was during this delicate phase of the crisis. for me, it is essential that the country continues to move forward on the right track and that the next electoral process, which should take place at the end of 2018, takes place in good conditions. to this end, political stability must be preserved and dialogue and the search for consensus must be given priority by the political actors. this is the only possible recipe for the organisation of credible elections in time and on time. i remember that we had received the malagasy president in brussels and had a very useful dialogue in this respect. if the next elections go well, i am convinced that the european union will continue to support the country. in the meantime, it is up to the union - it is up to us - to use all the instruments at our disposal to support an inclusive political dialogue and to insist on respect for human rights in the run-up to the next electoral process.
madam president, madagascar is facing a very difficult situation, having been hit hard by economic and political instability, by the negative growth of gdp and by the failure to meet the election deadlines. the failure of madagascar to respect the election timeline has caused western nations to withdraw financial aid and brought further political instability, worsening the country’s situation from the socio—economic, humanitarian and human rights perspectives. therefore, in welcoming the call to devote attention to the preparations of the forthcoming presidential elections, i strongly believe that supervision from the international community’s side is required in order to ensure that democratic standards are met, and that elections take place in a free, open and transparent manner. moreover, i conclude by expressing my full support for the call on the malagasy authorities to fulfil their international commitments, to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and, last but not least, to guarantee respect for the rule of law, which comes as a response to increasing concerns about human rights violations, arbitrary arrests and detentions, and about limited freedom of expression and unfair trials.
madam president, from the outset i say that i voted for the report. of course, i participated in the debate. who can not agree, who can oppose environmental protection, environmental protection measures? obviously, i agreed, but i also came up with proposals because i believe and not just because i think so, i checked. there are many problems with the financial possibilities in some member states to create the conditions for environmental protection and that is why i asked the commissioners in the plenary debate to think about some new mechanisms for financing large environmental protection projects in all the member states and in those where local and national budgets do not reach. so i'm glad that this project was voted but i hope at the same time that the members of the commission, the european commission, will find mechanisms to support the states that are not currently at the level of environmental protection, with mechanisms for environmental protection, at the appropriate level and for the trend that is up to 2030-2050.
madam president, i want to say at the outset that this report is a first step. but it doesn't solve the inequality and the problems that we've identified, child poverty, gender inequality, low income in some areas, especially in rural areas. i think that the commission is now having great difficulty in putting this project together, and i am very glad about that. i voted for him, i supported him with the group i'm part of. i'm in my country in a humanist party. we can't stop thinking about people. but the commission has to correlate because the cohesion funds have not yet achieved their purpose. we must continue to allocate a higher percentage of cohesion funds, especially to the poorest areas. there are children who are born poor, stay poor, raise poor families, don't have access to school, don't have access to education, don't have access to health care. it is a very complex subject and it is certainly good that the social pillar has been included in the european semester, but i think we have to deal with it systematically and the commission has to deal with it systematically in conjunction with other resolutions and other directives and regulations.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to everyone who took part in this particular question. can i emphasise on behalf of commissioner bieńkowska that these are two separate initiatives. one is about tourism, which is a decision that was made by president juncker and prime minister li on 12 july 2016 promoting the eu-china tourism year, and this decision was made one year before the decision to designate 2018 as the european year of cultural heritage. the decision that established the european year of cultural heritage for 2018 was taken by the council and the parliament on 17 may this year. so the tourism dimension came one year earlier, and it was set up for the purpose of trying to encourage additional tourists and travellers to come into the european union. while i listened to contributors here today, i got the impression that the european union budget was promoting chinese tourism. it is actually promoting european tourism. it’s about bringing more people into the european union, not the other way round, so the question of human rights does not arise. people have the freedom to travel, and we hope that visitors will come to the european union and i am disappointed as some members actually are trying to interpret this as some kind of an effort to say that chinese travellers are not welcome. that is not the position of the european union, and certainly not the position of the european commission. in relation to the european year of cultural heritage, this is a particular initiative for 2018 that requires all of the various processes that we know well to be implemented. in september 2017 a call for proposals for heritage cooperation projects was launched under the creative europe programme, with eur 5 million allocated and the deadline is actually next week on the 22 november 2017, so people still have time to make applications on this cultural heritage initiative. the european year of cultural heritage is benefiting from many eu funding programmes which also support cultural heritage like horizon 2020, cosme under the cultural tourism dimension, and natura 2000. these are all programmes which will benefit from this particular fund. as with other european years, the year of cultural heritage will be implemented through a series of initiatives and events at european level. national, regional and local levels are involved. it has nothing to do with promoting tourism or cultural tourism with china, it’s about promoting cultural heritage in the european union at local, regional and national level. so it is very much a ‘bottoms-up’ approach or at national level, the year has been managed by national coordinators who were appointed by all 28 member states. the commission is also being assisted by a committee which comprises 35 representative civil society organisations that are active in the field of heritage, culture and youth. i welcome this particular programme very much and i hope that people will actually apply for it, but it has nothing to do with chinese-european relations. finally, in relation to agriculture and the area of culture, the european union and china are negotiating an agreement at the moment on geographical indications, which i am sure the house will welcome. hopefully we will be able to reach agreement on this. this will promote european and chinese culture around the issue of food and food heritage. i think that can only be beneficial for our rural areas. i am glad to have the opportunity, on behalf of my colleague commissioner bieńkowska, to clarify these particular issues for members today.
madam president, on 20 november in kiev, a forum of the national minorities in ukraine took place, including representatives of the romanian, hungarian, polish, slovakian, bulgarian, tatar and jewish minorities, to discuss the new education law, article 7 of which forbids the national minorities to educate their children in their mother tongue at all levels. this forum was disrupted by the swoboda movement, a political party in ukraine, and they had to be evacuated. i am asking parliament to take a position on this important matter and on the ukrainian authorities’ tolerance of such situations. ukraine is an associate country of the european union and has to comply with european values: it has to defend and promote european values, including human rights and the rights of national minorities and their right to education in their national, mother-tongue language.
rapporteur. – madam president, on 18 november, after 16 hours of final negotiations, we managed to agree on the budget of the union for 2018. parliament, the council and the commission have managed to agree on the budget of the union for next year, and the good news is that the european union is capable of acting. we have a budget for next year and, more than that, it is a good budget. i say this with full conviction because we are allocating the limited resources we have available for exactly those areas which, at the beginning of the year, we defined together as being our priorities. firstly, growth and jobs; and secondly, citizens’ safety and security. we have allocated eur 11.2 billion for research and innovation because this makes europe’s economy more competitive, more future oriented and more capable of attracting investments. we are allocating eur 2.7 billion for infrastructure. we are allocating eur 354 million for small and medium-sized enterprises and eur 2.3 billion for erasmus scholarships so that the young people of europe can travel, can become more competitive, can gain more skills and can be successful on the labour markets tomorrow. we are allocating a total of eur 350 million to combat youth unemployment and we stay ready to evaluate this programme next year: if more is needed we are ready to allocate more resources. for the time being, we are allocating sufficient resources to give some prospect to those young people who are still looking for a job. in order to bring more safety and more security to the people of europe we are strengthening the agencies of the union which have responsibilities in justice and home affairs and in combating terrorism. to europol we are allocating eur 120 million and increasing its staff from 550 to 576 people. for the european asylum support office (easo), the agency which manages refugees in italy and in greece, we are standing by the side of italy and of greece through this budget and putting enough resources into the easo to manage the refugee crisis in those frontline states. we are doing more on defence. we are financing eur 40 million for a preparatory action on defence research to do more on defence at european level – because member states want to do this, because it makes sense and because it will enable member states to save money in their national budgets. we are also supporting our immediate neighbourhood – the southern neighbourhood, the eastern neighbourhood and the western balkans, those countries that are neighbouring the european union – where it is in our fundamental interest that stability is being achieved and, of course, we are also giving some important political signals. the reality in turkey does not go unnoticed by the three institutions, and this is why we are cutting pre-accession funds to turkey by eur 105 million because turkey is currently not respecting european standards when it comes to freedom of expression, the rule of law, and ngos’ and human rights. we are putting eur 70 million more in reserve money that will be made available subject to an improvement of the situation there. we are also allocating eur 4.9 million to tackle disinformation, propaganda and fake news. a preparatory action of eur 1.1 million will be launched in order to instruct and train eu personnel in member states, in the eastern neighbourhood and in the balkans with regard to the risks of propaganda. the remaining eur 3.8 million will be added to the budget for union communication in states outside of the union in order to better communicate the benefits of europe so that people are well informed and cannot easily fall victim to propaganda. all in all, it is a good budget. it is a budget which supports young people – young farmers, young entrepreneurs and researchers and young people looking for a job – and one which will provide more security to the people of europe, and i kindly ask the members of the house to vote in favour of it tomorrow. i would like to thank the chair of the committee on budgets, our colleague jean arthuis, my co-rapporteur richard ashworth and jens geier, who was in charge of the budget for this year and with whom we have worked closely, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and, of course, commissioner öttinger for having identified the right priorities and for helping us to put eu funds into those areas where they are needed, where they are absorbed and where eu money is well spent.
blue-card question. – mr farage, for sure the challenges that the uk budget is facing for next year are much bigger than the challenges that the eu budget is facing for next year. your revenues are going down, your growth perspective is worsening, investments will be at a slower level in the united kingdom next year, not so in europe. the question which i would like to ask you is this. we have increased the budget of the union for next year primarily for research and innovation. are you aware how much uk universities are benefiting from this and are you aware which country is the biggest beneficiary of eu research funds?
blue-card question. – may i ask my colleague, mr arnott, whether he thinks that the uk, as a civilised european country that shares european values and defends and promotes european values, should have to pay its normal bill and remain in a close relationship with europe as it is intending to have access to the common market and the customs union of the european union?
madam president, in the context of the debate and vote in the ep ministerial on the 2018 budget procedure, i completely support the results of the agreement by the budget conciliation committee for 2018. the joint conclusions on the 2018 budget were negotiated and adopted in the ep conciliation committee on the morning of 18 november. the document reflects the priorities of my country, romania, such as the adequate provision of resources for the financing of the cohesion policy and common agricultural policy in 2018. the agreement is an important one because it includes payment of eur 46.5 billion for cohesion policy funding (subchapter 1b), payments that will cover the volume of applications that will be sent for payment from the eu budget in 2018. this is extremely important for central and eastern european union members. during the negotiations there was a high risk of reducing payment appropriations in the case of cohesion policy. however, it proved possible to protect payments at a level close to that proposed for the common agricultural policy.
madam president, commissioner cañete, this debate is taking place at an opportune moment because, as you know, the itre committee voted yesterday on the energy efficiency and renewable energy reports and the result is an ambitious one, which shows a clear commitment as well as the direction in which investment is needed. the european union's 35% target for renewables, 40% for energy efficiency, a very strong article 7, clear provisions on fighting energy poverty, clear provisions and a 3% target for the renovation of all public buildings, a 12% target for renewables in transport. we are also ready to support the commission's efforts to amend the gas directive, as we need to ensure the integrity of european union legislation, respect for the principle of solidarity, as well as energy security and diversification of energy sources. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i welcome the commission's initiative to provide assistance to regions in transition to coal dependence and intensive industries and would like to know whether it is envisaged to extend this programme to other regions, under what conditions and according to what timetable. also, what is the state of a possible legislative proposal on the prevention of cyber incidents in the energy sector? and last but not least, commissioner, i welcome the publication of the list of projects of common interest, but i would point out that it is very important that projects are closely monitored so that projects like brua reach as far as austria and do not stop at the border with hungary.
mr president, while welcoming the third report, i would like to emphasise the fact that, while much has been achieved, we have to continue pushing forward in order to attain the goal of energy union, that of delivering secure, affordable and climate-friendly energy to all eu citizens and businesses. as the right way forward, the energy transition should be socially fair, would pave the way towards innovation and would rely on a future—proof infrastructure with enhanced security of supply. i am particularly glad to see that tailor—made support and assistance was provided to regions facing economic and social challenges, which have been, or remain, reliant on coal and carbon-intensive industries. indeed, the actions put in place in 2017 ensure that the eu is on the right track to implement the energy union project and boost jobs, growth and investment. now, as the so-called year of engagement approaches, the time has come to involve society – citizens, cities, companies, academia and other stakeholders.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the vote in this house today on international financial reporting standard 9 (ifrs 9) can be considered an early harvest from the commission’s november 2016 proposal to amend the prudential requirements for banks. this early harvest is important for at least two reasons. first, it will provide banks with the option to phase in the impact of enhanced expected credit-loss provision. it will also address a specific issue that some member states have with regard to exposure to the public sector denominated in a currency other than their own under the large exposure rules. second, it will provide these solutions on time. subject to parliament’s agreement, the proposed solution will become available to banks from 1 january 2018 onwards. that is when the ifrs 9 financial instruments become mandatorily applicable and when the existing transitional agreements under the large exposure rules are set to expire. at this point, the impact of ifrs 9 on capital raises may be relatively limited for the majority of banks. however, nobody will really know the impact until the standard is applied. more importantly, nobody knows what the effect of ifrs 9 would be should the economic situation suddenly deteriorate. it is from this ‘better safe than sorry’ perspective that the commission included a five-year transitional regime in the proposal. this will work as a safeguard against unexpected sudden adverse impacts on bank capital raises, due to a new accounting approach on credit risk provision. the commission, like parliament, considers that the dynamic approach would be a more effective safeguard against unexpected deterioration of the economy than a static approach, whereby the amount of add-back would be determined as a point-in-time number. the final political agreement with the council was on a static approach, but with the dynamic top-up that, thanks to the parliament’s perseverance during the negotiations, is not subject to any threshold. so, overall i consider that the outcome of the agreed approach will constitute an effective safeguard for the next five years. the adoption of this transitional package is a temporary safeguard. it does not undermine the longer-term risk-reduction benefits of ifrs 9. enhanced expected credit risk provisioning will lead to earlier and higher provisioning against credit-risk buybacks. ifrs 9 will help prevent the build-up of stock of new non-performing loans with insufficient provisioning. unlike in the case of ifrs 9, we know what the potential impact would be of failing to put in place a suitable solution for the treatment of public sector exposures denominated in a non-domestic currency under the large exposure rules. for member states which are not part of the euro but which issue a lot of their public debt in euros, not finding a solution would mean that banks would either have to increase significantly their capital or sell a significant amount of their sovereign bond holdings. that would have the potential to distort the market for government bonds in those member states. this is why the commission proposed to provide for a specific arrangement to mitigate such an impact. i welcome the fact that the political agreement reached by this parliament and the council is very close to the commission’s proposal. parliament’s vote on this matter can demonstrate that the european legislative construct is capable of delivering important regulation within a short time frame. we have accomplished important work to agree on a final text. i want to take this opportunity to thank parliament, and in particular mr roberto gualtieri and the rapporteur, mr peter simon and the shadow rapporteurs. your work on this file can deliver an early harvest from the negotiations on the banking package. i hope this will also be a prelude to an agreement on the full banking package, for the sake of financial stability and economic growth in the eu.
mr president, the financial crisis has shown us that financial institutions, especially banks, have reported too late and too little about the huge losses they suffered from all kinds of financial products. international financial reporting standard 9 is the main response to the recognition of such losses, moving from the method of recording losses as they occur to the valuation, forecasting of such losses before they occur and, at the same time, the provisioning of provisions. this is the novelty of this standard in the field of financial institutions. accordingly, the need for capital increases has arisen, thus having an impact on the amount of capital required by financial institutions and therefore the industries have requested a transitional period. however, it should be made very clear that this transitional period relates to the prudential rules followed by the banking system, the european central bank, central banks and not to the accounting, recording, financial reporting rules, which still oblige financial institutions from 1 january 2018 to record, highlight possible product damage in the future and take measures to prevent it.
mr president if the european union really wants to contribute to stability and peace in third countries, it is inevitable that it will also contribute to the building of law enforcement and military capacity. in african countries with weak central power, the success of any development programme is at risk unless the host state has the strength to organise and protect these actions. of course, there are understandable concerns about the financing of security structures, but we also have to see that other non-eu states are not as sensitive and strongly support the expansion of military capabilities in africa. if europe wants partners in africa and functioning state structures, then police cooperation cannot be excluded alongside development aid. i think it's very naive to think that we can save that. and if there are dysfunctional states on the african continent, there are unforeseen security risks for europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i will just add my voice to that of my colleague, tunne kelam, and to the commissioner’s statement because, indeed, in yemen, one of the poorest countries in the world, war and famine continue in all impunity. civilians die under the bombs of one of the richest countries in the world – saudi arabia – a country to which we continue to sell arms and offer support. the other side of the story is that while we are turning a blind eye and while some are shamefully choosing sides, saudi arabia and iran are turning yemen into chaos and misery. this is a terrible man—made disaster and it is mostly the result of a wider conflict between iran and saudi arabia. i am therefore very worried about the rising tensions and the way this could further affect the whole middle east region and beyond. it is difficult to describe the human tragedy going on in yemen, with famine, malnutrition, a cholera outbreak and death. it is, as many will say today, the worst humanitarian crisis in the world. the commissioner repeatedly mentioned that this is the worst humanitarian crisis known in the world. yemen is highly dependent on food imports. the saudi-led coalition has blocked much of the country’s air, sea and land ports, thus there is no access for the desperately-needed humanitarian aid, medicines, assistance and so on. i am adding my voice today to those calling for an immediate and total lift of the blockade and a return to the negotiating table. impunity cannot be accepted, neither in yemen nor in any other place. the many war crimes perpetrated in this conflict have to be investigated and prosecuted. on monday, a complaint was submitted to the international criminal court on this matter and i can only hope an investigation will be launched soon. finally, it is imperative to put an end to this conflict, but it is also imperative to realise that long-term aid alone cannot address the full needs of 28 million people. yemenis need a sustainable solution for development in agriculture, to fund and address their existential needs and give them a chance to live in peace. this is the comprehensive answer they need and it is our duty to help, together with other international actors, find a solution to the worst tragedy known in the history of mankind.
mr president, we discussed the situation in yemen a few months ago and since then there has been no improvement, quite the contrary. the situation has worsened considerably in recent weeks as a result of the blockade by sea and land, which has only plunged the civilian population into disarray. beyond the humanitarian situation, the continuation of this war means the collapse of all state institutions. the two small glimmers of hope that we can hang on to are the partial lifting of the blockade, which has allowed some humanitarian aid to be delivered, and the holding of talks in london in the presence of the united nations. what role can the european union play? first of all, i would say that we must support a total lifting of the blockade, with the definitive reopening of ports and airports, to ensure access for humanitarian aid and trade and, in effect, to bring the civilian population out of isolation. this reopening must be done while ensuring that the security conditions are met because we cannot tolerate missiles being fired at neighbouring countries. secondly, the european union can and must, in my view, play a role on the diplomatic front. we can no longer afford to be just a humanitarian actor. the negotiations are at a standstill, while the european union is a credible partner in the eyes of all parties to the conflict. in summary, we must emphasize three points which i consider essential: an immediate ceasefire, a realistic peace plan under the auspices of the united nations, and, finally, support for state institutions so that there is no room for a security vacuum once peace has been restored. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. mr obermayr, to my knowledge, 17 member states of the union sell arms. i do not know how much the russian arms industry weighs because i do not have the figures at hand, but i would be grateful if you had those figures and could give us details. in any case, since you have mentioned the question of russia, i hope that the conflict in yemen will not be resolved as it is in syria, that is, without the participation of the arabs. what's happening now with the conflict in syria is that the russians, the turks and the iranians are going to make an arrangement that will exclude europeans and arabs. in my view, europeans and arabs must invest in both the resolution of the conflict in syria and the resolution of the conflict in yemen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, romania has been a member of the european union for ten years and legitimately wants a truly equal status with its european partners, including acceptance into the schengen area. that is why i was unpleasantly surprised by the statements made earlier this month by the president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, with regard to romania, statements in which he cast a shadow of doubt on my country's readiness to join the schengen area. romania has been a member of the european union for ten years and legitimately wants a truly equal status with its european partners, which means acceptance into the schengen area. romania has made important sacrifices to meet the accession criteria, and maintaining the current situation is an injustice to romanians. such contradictory positions raise questions not only about the european commission president's consistency with romania, but also about the vision of the future of the european project as such. romania is a country that wants to strengthen this project and any such signal that erodes the trust of romanian citizens in the european union is totally wrong. in 2018, romania will celebrate the centenary of the great union and i want to believe that this occasion will find us again as a member state of the schengen area.
mr president, on 1 december romania will celebrate its national day. as my colleague from the socialists reminded us, romania and bulgaria are celebrating ten years of membership of the european union this year. it should be a festive occasion, but the reality is grim. yes, our countries and citizens have gained a lot from membership. yes, there is more visible prosperity in our cities and villages. yes, a lot of romanians and bulgarians feel european, and support for the european union is still at a very high level. but the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area is postponed sine die. the cvm is continuously extended under various pretexts. various regulations, for example the workers directive, put us at a net disadvantage. all of this is deepening the gulf between romania and the rest of the european union. and that's not the only crack in the european union. the chance to overcome this situation was a deep reform of the union, as suggested in the white paper presented by the president of the commission. it seems that chance was missed, the union chose not to change anything. if we want a democratic and prosperous europe and above all an equal europe for all, we must make this reform now, as soon as possible, otherwise an explosion is imminent.
mr president, in bucharest we have again a serious crisis of the rule of law. it's an attempt, as in january, to change the justice laws to protect corrupt politicians. then the government used an emergency ordinance, now it's the parliamentary majority dictatorship. the csm and over 4 000 magistrates have indicated that the changes will destroy the autonomy of the judiciary. the european commission asked the government to consult the venice commission, most ignored all the warning signs. the heads of both chambers have a direct stake in these changes, one of them being convicted and the other being under investigation for perjury. these two are the leaders of the parties that make up the governing coalition, so the political deadlock is a major one. tens of thousands of people have taken to the streets and are waiting for help from brussels. i'm afraid only a harsh reaction can solve anything. personally, i think it would be appropriate to activate article 7 of the treaty and suspend the voting rights of the representatives of the romanian government in the council.
mr president, i welcome the proposed amendments to directive 2014/59/eu under opinion as this represents a very much needed effort to implement the total loss-absorbing capacity (tlac) standard, which was adopted by the g20. i believe that in order to avoid legal uncertainty the tlac standard requires that liabilities may be eligible for tlac only if they are subordinated to other liabilities. as such, i support the proposal for member states to ensure that ordinary senior debt instruments and other unsecured ordinary senior liabilities have a higher priority ranking in their national insolvency laws than the new non-preferred senior class of debt. finally, it is of utmost importance for the commission to assess whether it is necessary to make further amendments with regard to the ranking of deposits in insolvency, at the latest three years after the date of entry into force of the directive.
mr president, persons with disabilities are denied many of their fundamental rights each day. they suffer from indirect or direct discrimination when they are excluded from society, from work, or even the environment around them. their labour market access is dismal and often they are directed towards benefit schemes instead of receiving the support needed to enter the workforce. as the report rightly points out, this happens despite the fact that the overall cost of keeping persons with disabilities out of the labour market is higher than including them in the workplace. unfortunately, instead of improvements, there are still instances in the eu where backward steps are taken. recently, the romanian government adopted an emergency decree which removed the option for companies to compensate non-compliance with romania’s current quota law for employment for persons with disabilities by buying products from protective employment units. this cost the jobs and livelihood of most of the around 2 000 persons with disabilities working in sheltered employment and the existence of 740 employment and work services for persons with disabilities. this happened in a country where the employment and activity rates for people with disabilities were already well below the eu average. situations like these make it imperative for us to maximise the implementation of the uncrpd, improve eu coordination and urgently put in place support measures in all eu member states.
in writing. it is recognised that persons with disabilities are those who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities which, in interaction with various barriers, may prevent their full and effective participation in social life on an equal basis with others. the european disability strategy focuses on equality and non-discrimination, as people with disabilities face additional barriers and multiple forms of discrimination and stigmatisation. people with disabilities have complex needs, suffering from a lack of support, protection, communication and information about their services and rights. as these persons have lower incomes, higher expenditure and a higher unemployment rate, positive discrimination measures, including minimum employment rates for persons with disabilities in the public and private sectors, are required. this will enable the approximately 80 million people in the eu who are often prevented from participating fully in social and economic life because of physical and behavioural barriers to equal opportunities and to real social inclusion and participation.
in writing. – there are an estimated 80 million persons with disabilities in the eu, of whom more than half are women. they all have equal rights in all fields of life and are entitled to inalienable dignity, equal treatment, independent living and autonomy. it is therefore important that the european institutions fight against all forms of discrimination and provide for equal participation of persons with disabilities in society. consequently, it is commendable that we have made important steps forward and i am also happy to see parliament taking this ambitious view in the present report. after recently acceding to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities – and implementing the first european disability strategy – i agree that we are more than ever under pressure to offer better conditions to our citizens. from the transport perspective, we need to do more, so that those in need can enjoy seamless, accessible and independent travel. this is in accordance with the eu treaties that guarantee the right to free movement for all citizens, and refers to everything from the designing of transport vehicles and stations, to providing assistance from the point of departure to the point of arrival at the final destination of a disabled passenger.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, 1 december, is romania's national day, which has a special significance for all romanians: the creation of the unitary, sovereign and independent national state on 1 december 1918, the fulfillment of a centuries-old ideal of the romanians. i want to thank all the meps for their collaboration and partnership, all the member countries of the european union for their solidarity and cooperation with my country. in romania, the support, the support for the european union continues to be a big one. the romanians have understood that the future of europe is closely linked to the future of the european union and that now, more than ever, is the time for unity and solidarity, for the elimination of any discrimination between member states, and i am referring here first of all to the schengen area. i also think it is important to learn from the experience of every other member state of the european union. in romania we have a positive experience with the treatment of national minorities, which, regardless of the number of its members, have a representative in the parliament of romania. ladies and gentlemen, we must work harder than ever now to convince all the citizens of the european union that the only alternative to the european union is a european union (the president retracted the speaker).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to welcome and appreciate the work of my colleagues albert dess and de castro, but also of all those who have worked on this report. this document attempted to address some of the problems facing the agricultural sector, some of which were the phenomenon of ageing in rural areas, but also the negotiation difficulties faced by farmers in the agri-food chain. in this context, i appreciate that member states will be able to increase payments to young farmers in the first pillar by up to 50% of the ceiling. the general income stabilisation instrument is of particular importance, as it can be used in the event that farmers' incomes fall by more than 30% of their average annual income compared to the previous year. however, this instrument, together with insurance contracts, must become accessible to farmers in all member states, and in this respect i believe that the role of the national authorities is decisive in their implementation. the amendments are also relevant to strengthen the bargaining position of farmers, while respecting antitrust rules and fair competition conditions in the agri-food supply chain. this is to meet the needs of farmers and to provide consumers with cheap, quality food. i regret, however, that the pigmeat and poultrymeat sectors are not among those eligible for coupled support, although they are in difficulty in many eu countries.
in writing. i welcome and support the new cap reform, which as a whole provides for a simpler and more balanced policy for farmers. but i cannot help but criticise the fact that the current cap, which we have reached today, has not achieved one of its most important objectives: price volatility. this remains a catastrophic consequence for my country. all the provisions of this new regulation open the door to new agreements with third countries, which i would agree with if european farmers, and especially the disadvantaged ones, were not used as bargaining chips for other policies. i have said many times since 2014 that it would not be a bad idea to create a new form of cap, one that emphasises national protagonism, but i have always been accused of wanting a renationalisation. today i am surprised to read that one of the aims of this regulation is to give the member states a central role.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her work in this vital area of european construction. indeed behind the immense symbolic value of common citizenship binding people into one european community, there is a complex legal and political foundation. ‘eu citizens’ covers many areas of immense importance, starting from the much cherished freedom of movement, via democratic participation in local and eu governance, to protection outside eu borders, to name only a few. nothing highlights better, the value of these achievements and the problems painfully exposed by the brexit process for the lives of millions of citizens facing great uncertainty and anxiety regarding their future. but eu citizenship is far from being a finished project. if i were to point out one single aspect that is conspicuously missing today from this endeavour, it would be the effective protection of eu values in the case of autochthonous minorities. eu minority citizens who are still subject to discriminatory practices today rightly feel that this gap needs to be addressed.
in writing. – at the core of the european union lie european citizens and their rights. at least 15 million eu citizens are living in a different member state than their home country and – for them and not only – free movement of travelling, work and study is highly appreciated. following last year’s brexit referendum, the right to petition and the right to free movement of persons, in particular, have risen the interest of eu citizens. this is why i believe that now, more than ever, it is time for the eu to gain credibility by overcoming any obstacle and any discrimination against eu citizens. let’s not forget that european citizenship created also new configurations, which gradually extended to third-country nationals legally residing in the eu, leading to greater social and political inclusion. to conclude, i believe that european citizenship is slowly becoming a direct source of rights outside the economic context and in this framework, the union of democratic change will develop within full democratic engagement and civic participation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 december 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the summary of the report by ms schaake on towards a digital commerce strategy (2017/2065 (ini)) (a80384/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 december 2017.
the next item on the agenda is a minute's speech on important political issues (rule 163).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the current context in which euroscepticism is gaining ground, based on the lack of information to citizens about the importance of the european union, on erroneous, distorted messages about the role of the european institutions in the daily lives of citizens, i believe it is important to combat these currents of opinion which are promoting certain distorted ideas, according to which all bad things are dictated from brussels, the national state has lost its sovereignty or that the european union is being built is a construction designed to destroy the national spirit. therefore, in order to have a real success in the battle of ideas with those who want to dismantle the european union, i am submitting to your debate the proposal to ask the european commission to adopt regulations introducing, at european level, a subject on the european union in the school curriculum of the final years of college. it aims to present the european institutions and their place and role in society and in the daily lives of the citizens of the european union. i personally believe that without education in this area, we europeans leave a wasteland where eurosceptic slogans and speeches slowly but surely sow the seeds of mistrust in the future of the european union.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the unacceptable situation of an institution in romania through which european agricultural funds are channelled, namely the agricultural intervention and payments agency. the civil servants of this institution denounce the salary policy of the psd-alde government, under which a salary reduction of up to eur 500 is to take place from 1 january 2018. the grievances are also generated by the wage differentials between the central and the territorial apparatus, where salaries are supposed to be much lower, although they are the ones who process the farmers' files, practically doing the hardest work. at the same time, the existence of wage differentials with other institutions that provide european agricultural funds creates a profoundly inequitable situation. i draw the attention of the minister of agriculture and prime minister mihai tudose that romania is already in deficit in absorbing european funds, and the discontent in this sector can lead to the blocking of payments for farmers, with immeasurable consequences for romanian farmers.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, on 1 december, on the occasion of romania's national day, we celebrated 99 years since the historic decision of the romanians of transylvania to unite with the motherland. so next year, like other eu member states, we will celebrate our centenary together. this was possible partly because of the sacrifice of romanian soldiers in the first world war, but also because, even then, romanians fought for a set of values that are still the basis of the european union today. in the resolution adopted in 1918 in the presence of over one hundred thousand participants, the romanians of transylvania strongly demanded social rights for workers, the right of minorities to education, religion and political representation, including freedom of the press, democracy and direct and equal voting for women and men. today, almost a hundred years after that moment, i want to welcome from the european parliament the fact that romania is fully integrated into europe, and the values it promoted a century ago, of good coexistence, tolerance and freedom, are truly the foundation of our european project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has recommended that the negotiations with the united kingdom move to phase two, noting that there have been positive developments in the talks between the two sides, particularly with regard to the protection of the rights of european citizens in the united kingdom. romanians in the uk, like all european citizens living in the uk, need to receive a clear answer and firm guarantees, after a period dominated by fears and uncertainties, regarding their status in the post-brexit period. we must be their voice in the european parliament in the stages leading up to the conclusion of the negotiations, support their interests and ensure that all the details of the final agreement are in their favour. brexit is a test for the european union, and how the rights of european citizens are protected can strengthen people's faith in the european project or weaken it.
this item on the agenda has been closed.
i don't think anyone would argue that we have systemic problems with the use of various tax avoidance techniques. it is clear that transnational corporations or those with vast fortunes are successfully evading their tax obligations, causing outrage among citizens and shaking their faith in the justice of sharing the burden. we cannot ignore the fact that some countries and state institutions are complicit and financially beneficiaries of these mechanisms that poison our societies and undermine governments, institutions, political movements. the problem requires a complex set of legislative, enforcement, regulatory, control and sanctioning procedures. the question is whether we take these steps now or when the damage is greater. the rule of law requires not only the observance of the law but also the enforcement of social justice. and if the current politicians can't do that, then the citizens will look for new ones to replace them.
in writing. after several delays, the european commission has fulfilled its commitment to publish the list of non-cooperative tax havens in the fight against money laundering and tax evasion. objectivity and thorough analysis were needed. the commission notes that the tax haven is not a tax haven in the sense of article 107 (1) tfeu, but that it is a tax haven in the sense of article 107 (1) tfeu. we need to monitor these tax havens closely so that if they do not meet their commitments, they are blacklisted as non-cooperative. we are now waiting for proposals from the commission on the sanctions that member states should apply to non-cooperative tax havens.
madam president, i would like to congratulate commissioner katainen and his team on the success of this european fund for strategic investments. it's certainly a success, and it shows us once again the power of combining both public funding, private funding, combined with technical assistance, which has been very helpful. i also congratulate the two rapporteurs who obtained a very large majority from all colleagues for the extension of the fund. what i want to suggest is the importance of technical assistance for a number of countries that have difficulties in preparing projects, such as my country, romania. i also think that this positive experience of the fund should be seen as something that could be used at national level as well.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in afghanistan (2017/2932(rsp)).
mr president, the european union and its member states have engaged in a partnership with afghanistan together with the international community, a partnership underpinned by a common strategic interest in fighting terrorism and extremism. nowadays, afghanistan’s situation has improved in terms of economic and social development compared to 2001. however, the progress made so far is threatened by a difficult security situation, with a high level of violence and a high number of casualties, by weak democratic institutions, with an administration in kabul that controls less and less territory, coupled with a fragile economic framework and difficult state of human rights. our commitment to supporting an afghan-led and afghan-owned peace process has to remain unabated. i fully welcome the new eu strategy on afghanistan, which focuses on the necessary conditions for a political solution to the conflict and on developing the country’s institutions and economy while also tackling migration-related issues.
motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure shall be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 december 2017.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of the rohingya population (2017/2973 ((rsp)).
mr president, no wonder that the flight of over 700 000 rohingya to bangladesh was the quickest exodus of people the world has seen since the genocide in rwanda. those fortunate enough to get to bangladesh alive now live in squalid camps in miserable conditions and with limited access to food, clean water and healthcare. despite what they went through, most rohingya want to go back to their homeland. this, however, should not happen until there are solid international guarantees that the violence and repression in rakhine state has completely stopped. another precondition should be that the myanmar authorities return all looted property and compensate returnees for the loss of lives and goods during the violence. to avoid past mistakes, no returns should be forced or take place in the absence of strong assurances that myanmar would respect the dignity and rights of the rohingya who return.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i should like to call the high representative ‘dear federica’, or perhaps i should call you ‘ms ubiquity’, because you have to run from one corner to another. today we are debating two of the most important reports this parliament has ever debated, namely the reports by mr mcallister and mr gahler. as the complex security challenges are becoming more and more serious in our neighbourhood and beyond, the eu remains –as you rightly mentioned recently, madam high representative – the most predictable, credible and humane global power necessary to the whole world. yes, we are expected to act in a united and effective manner inside and outside the union to protect our citizens, to support our partners and allies, and to be able to prevent and manage rapidly the external threats from conventional to hybrid warfare, cyber and terrorist attacks. therefore, strong cooperation in the context of the cfsp and csdp is the best answer. only this will allow the eu to enhance our defence capabilities and prevent duplication. it goes without saying that these commitments require adequate member state and eu budget adjustment and funding. i welcome the progress made since the adoption of the eu global strategy on foreign and security policy, including the adoption of the european defence fund and the legislative proposal on the european defence industrial programme, as well as the notification of the activation of pesco last november, which is a major victory for the union and for our future defence and security capabilities. i would like this to become the most inclusive and ambitious project possible for our union. finally, i would like to stress the importance of our transatlantic relations and our strategic and complementary partnership with nato, as well as the importance of the enlargement process towards the western balkans for the security and stability of the union. so i recall the necessity for all candidate countries from the region to align themselves with the foreign and security policy of the union and i encourage the opening, as soon as possible, of chapter 31 of the negotiations.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, it is good to be back in my place. if we look around us – and we are doing this quite consistently today – we see a dangerous world, indeed. there is a risk that tensions will rise around the holy places of jerusalem – we will discuss this in the next debate – daesh has been defeated in iraq, but the war in syria is not over yet, egypt has just suffered one of the worst terrorist attacks in its history, and the war in yemen is getting worse by the day. to look a little bit further, in the korean peninsula there is a security challenge that potentially affects all of us: nuclear proliferation is a reality. against this background, preserving and implementing the nuclear deal with iran is an absolute must. we simply cannot afford more tension in the middle east and another nuclear proliferation crisis. we cannot afford to undermine the credibility of a multilateral agreement endorsed by the un security council resolution, and we cannot afford to dismantle a deal that works and delivers on its promises. the deal with iran is ensuring the peaceful nature of iran’s nuclear programme. this is vital for our collective security in the european union, in the region and beyond, and it is even more important as we face a nuclear crisis with north korea. with a nuclear deal with iran, we have established the strongest monitoring system ever set up. the international atomic energy agency has reported nine times that iran is implementing all its nuclear-related commitments. it took us 12 years of extremely difficult negotiations, led by the european union, to achieve these results. renegotiating the deal, or parts of it, is simply not an option. no one can possibly believe, in good faith, that this is a credible path to follow. after president trump’s announcement of a new us strategy towards iran, we europeans have made our position very clear. preserving the deal is our shared security interest, and the best way for the united states to address their security concerns – which are also ours – is in close cooperation with we europeans. we europeans share many of our american friends’ preoccupations regarding the regional situation and iran’s ballistic missile programme, which is inconsistent with un security council resolution 2231. this is why we still have some targeted sanctions and an arms embargo in place. but these issues should not be mixed up with the joint comprehensive plan of action with the nuclear deal and must be addressed in the appropriate formats and fora. dismantling a nuclear agreement that is working would not put us in a better position to discuss all the rest. the opposite would happen. in fact, this is what we always do in our contacts with iran. we discuss all the issues we have on the table, from cooperation to the difficult ones, including regional issues. on 20 november, we held the latest eu—iran high-level dialogue and, as you know, i meet regularly with foreign minister zarif. for more than two years now, we have built a very frank relationship with iran. we are always open about our disagreements – and there are many – and we always try to find the best way to address them. this approach has also driven our conversations on human rights. we still have substantive disagreements but, together with iran, we have agreed to focus on tangible results. for example, we welcome the recent adoption by tehran of the revised anti—narcotics law. if properly implemented, it could lead to a significant drop in the number of executions of drug offenders in iran. at the last high-level dialogue i mentioned a few weeks ago, there was also agreement to continue our engagement on women’s empowerment and on the treatment of prisoners. we have also agreed to look into possibilities for cooperation on the fight against drugs and on migration. let me remind us all that iran has played – and continues to play – an important role in hosting millions of afghan refugees and we are ready to increase our common work and support in this field. since we reached the nuclear deal, our engagement with iran has entered a new phase. as i mentioned, it is not always easy. there are many issues where we disagree, but it is definitely a new phase. trade between iran and europe increased by 94% in the first half of 2017 compared to the first half of 2016. oil exports have reached the pre—sanctions level and billions of outstanding oil debts have been paid back. foreign direct investment is increasing and the iranian government reported growth of 55% compared to the previous year. progress in the financial and banking sector has been slower due to a number of factors, but important work is being carried out to improve the situation, also including on the iranian side. civil nuclear cooperation is also an integral part of the deal, and let me stress that, as the debate refers to the iran nuclear deal, i am focusing here on the implementation of the deal and all the nuclear-related parts of it. i would obviously be very pleased to have a ninth debate today to address all the issues that are not covered under the nuclear deal and that are issues that we are addressing and we believe need to be addressed in our relations and talks with iran. i am thinking of the war in syria and the conflict in yemen, even if i touched upon some of the bilateral issues we are working on. as i was saying, civil nuclear cooperation is an integral part of the deal. our civil nuclear cooperation makes the nuclear deal more solid through increased transparency. the second high—level seminar on civilian nuclear cooperation has just taken place in isfahan and concrete cooperation activities are being rolled out. this cooperation is important for we europeans and is even more important for the people of iran. i would like us all to remember the images of young iranians – girls, boys, but also not just young people – celebrating the deal in the streets of tehran. i believe we have the responsibility to show these people and the iranian leadership that they have an interest in making iran more open and more cooperative, and that this brings benefits to the leadership and the people – especially to the people. it is in their interest and in our own interest. the deal with iran prevented a nuclear escalation in the middle east. it showed that diplomacy is the best way to overcome longstanding problems that sometimes seem impossible to solve. this is something we have not forgotten and this is why we believe that a diplomatic, but critical, engagement with iran can benefit the entire middle east and prevent a regional escalation that would destabilise the whole world. at this complicated moment for the region and for the world, let me say that the european parliament has taken part of the responsibility for our collective security and i am grateful for that. i would like to thank you for your contacts with the us congress and i would also mention the visit of the delegation for relations with iran to that country. as always there was excellent cooperation and coordination with me and with all our teams that are working on these files. i think we showed teamwork and that the european institutions across the board – including the european parliament that to me plays an essential role in european foreign policy – managed to, as we always say, speak with one voice or pass the same message. then, when the message is passed by different players across the eu institutions, it becomes louder and clearer. so let me thank you once again for your cooperation over the last weeks and months. let me also say that i believe we will need this kind of cooperation even more in the weeks and months ahead, which will probably also be difficult. the work is not over, but i think that we are doing what needs to be done, again thanks also to your determined work. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, today we are examining the situation following the change in us policy towards iran in october. the european position, as reiterated by the high representative, is unchanged: we continue to support the iran nuclear agreement. but i believe that instead of rejecting all criticism out of hand, we should face our weaknesses and try to overcome them. the development of iranian ballistic missiles continues, and the 'sunset clause' paves the way for iran to have a nuclear arsenal within ten years, with obviously important consequences for the security of europe, including my own country. just because we are committed to the implementation of the nuclear agreement, we must not turn a blind eye and refuse to admit the rest of the problematic aspects in iran. we cannot remain silent on the disastrous human rights situation. for two years now, the only european voices warning of the increasing number of executions, the suppression of critical voices and the persecution of minorities have been those of our parliament. the rest is polite silence. secondly, we cannot forget the destabilising role of iran in the region, whether it is syria, iraq, lebanon or gaza. we cannot ignore the iranian regime's support for hezbollah and other terrorist movements, its denial of the holocaust and its calls for the destruction of israel. let us have the courage of our convictions and raise these issues in working with our partners across the atlantic.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, let’s set things right. since the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) entered into force, the international atomic energy agency has – as you rightly mentioned, madam high representative – certified nine times that iran is in compliance with the commitments set out in the agreement. following this, the international community has lifted the nuclear-related sanctions, whereas sanctions imposed by the eu and the us relating to human rights abuses and terrorist activities remain in place. the us non-nuclear-related sanctions are, nevertheless, much more comprehensive and have an extraterritorial effect that causes legal uncertainty and poses problems to the eu forums dealing with iran. the eu position is unequivocal. the us president’s decision to decertify the deal is damaging us credibility and interests, especially now, considering the worsening of the north korean crisis. this decision remains purely an internal matter for the us, as the agreement remains a multilateral agreement and cannot be scrapped by a single party. in parallel, there are a number of other issues that are not part of the agreement but should be included in our eu high-level dialogue with iran. i am referring to the following: human rights, firing of ballistic missiles, and iran’s destabilising action in the region, notably in syria, lebanon and yemen.
in writing. – apparently, the iran nuclear deal follows its course, and its implementation is flawless. i always viewed the nuclear deal as a pressure valve that would pave the way to a more cooperative and less belligerent iran, more stability in the region, better life for its people, fewer human rights abuses, and more democracy. these things are not happening! on the contrary; a much more well off iran acts aggressively at regional level, from yemen to lebanon, and from syria to iraq. the eu is failing to raise any questions on matters like human rights or democratic principles in its relation with iran. our leniency towards iran’s actions, before providing the alleged benefits, offers teheran’s dictatorship regime the means to wreak havoc over a wide area. i believe it is in the eu’s interest to be more adamant in its relations with iran. we must be clearer in stating the reasons for which we are backing the nuclear deal. we must also state the reasons for which we might back out from this deal. iran’s answer to france’s request of dialogue, threatening europe with an enlarged missile range is completely unacceptable. this is not a wise reaction and will not help in any way.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, in 1995 the us congress declared that jerusalem should be recognized as the capital of israel and that the us embassy should be moved. the clinton, bush and obama administrations have consistently invoked the jerusalem embassy act's waiver clause to delay implementation of the decision, without, however, challenging it. president trump's statement should not come as a surprise, especially since he announced it during his election campaign. according to the terms of the statement, "the united states did not take a position on final status issues, including the precise boundaries of israel's sovereignty over jerusalem". this does not therefore contradict our position on the two-state solution with jerusalem as its capital. but i think we should look realistically at the role of the european union in resolving the conflict. the reality is that our position is unfortunately weak. this was clearly felt on the ground at the beginning of the year with the afet mission in israel and the palestinian territories. in jerusalem we were told that we were too pro-palestinian and in ramallah we were told that we had done nothing for palestine. repeating that we are for the two-state solution will not magically make it happen. more must therefore be done to secure a lasting peace agreement and the resumption of direct negotiations. finally, the violence and anti-semitic acts that followed president trump's announcement must be unequivocally condemned: hamas rocket fire in israel, burning stars of david and hamas flags in berlin, molotov cocktails against a synagogue in gothenburg and calls to 'shoot the jews' in malmö; this is totally unacceptable!
the commission has already taken action on this. mr president, mr member, why has france not recognised palestine? i am not talking about president macron's france, but mr mitterrand's france, which you supported at the time.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the report we are discussing today is a valuable paper as it tackles a wide range of horizontal topics of the utmost importance for the eu and its policy instrument for advancing human rights and democracy worldwide. i thank the rapporteur for her openness during the negotiations and i am happy to see that issues which were proposed by my group were extensively supported by the other groups and are now in the final report. however, i consider that in general the reports we are adopting should go beyond theoretical statements. we should not censor ourselves when speaking about violations of human rights and democracy in the world without referring to particular cases, countries and regimes. we should not be shy in naming and shaming abusive state and non-state actors. such an approach would give more value to our work and to the work of civil society, whose representatives expose themselves to danger and abuse, yet continue to act as watchdogs and brought these events to our attention. the aim of the report is also to be a supportive instrument for the work of the european external action service, as well as to the eu delegations in the third countries. i believe that speaking openly and stating the facts about undemocratic regimes will strengthen the significance of our work and its impact on the design of eu external policies. i hope that in the future we will surpass this limitation and will address without restraint events that damage human rights and democracy in the world.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, mrs godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, on the excellent report she prepared and negotiated on the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2016. i was very pleased to see that the amendments i proposed were fully incorporated in the report. these amendments stressed the importance of placing the strengthening of human rights and democracy at the heart of our enlargement and neighbourhood policies. i also proposed the development of guidelines for the support of democracy, because it is an illusion to think that democracy and human rights could work without each other. rather, they are two sides of the same coin. and today, in many parts of the world, there are still politicians who try to convince us that communism and left-wing populism can work for the benefit of citizens. that's not true! in china, the fate of liu xiaobo, nobel peace prize winner, is a typical case of the brutal repression of dissidents by the authorities. in china, lee ming-che, a passionate human rights defender, has just been sentenced to five years in prison. in venezuela, the cases of alfredo acosta and leopoldo lópez, winner of the 2017 sakharov prize, are testimony to the failure of the chavista system. that is why, in line with our treaty commitments, we must promote human rights and democracy on the international stage.
madam president, i want to say now, on balance, that i think we have results and we must not ignore them. we need to look more at the issues that unite us than the issues that divide us, but at the same time, i think we also need to think about the things that have failed us, and brexit, the uk leaving, is one thing that has failed us. i congratulate the negotiators, both parliament and the commission. i think they made a very good point today that we have to think about this brexit thinking about the citizen, that there should be no additional burden and that there should be no discrimination against european citizens. and i have fellow citizens there and i think, institutionally, britain needs to take on this burden. at the same time, i think we need to think about what we are doing next year and the council needs to think about how we are increasing social cohesion - after all, that is our important objective - how we can help more european farmers, small businesses, how we can support citizens. this is european policy.
representative of the democratic opposition of venezuela awarded the sakharov prize 2017. mr president of the european parliament, mr antonio tajani, honourable members of the european parliament, distinguished guests and visitors, delegation of venezuela who are with us to receive this award today, friends and comrades. it is certainly not easy to speak when your lips are as close to your heart as they are at this moment, but i want to convey to all of you that since the first sailors arrived on american soil centuries ago, europe and venezuela have had a back-and-forth relationship. although some people want to change history, we've been twins ever since. today venezuelans have to thank europe, you, who have extended a helping hand to us in what are undoubtedly the darkest hours of our republican history as a nation. that is the same hand that we venezuelans extended in the 20th century to thousands and thousands of europeans who emigrated with the scars of war on their souls and bodies. among them, my own parents and grandparents. some have returned to their places of origin, driven out by the devastating effects of the so-called 'socialism of the 21st century' that has been attempted to be established in my country. and, sadly, young venezuelans have also left their land behind in the hope of finding in europe, and other corners of the world, the future and opportunity that the government of venezuela has taken from them. this round trip, this common history between america and europe has brought us here. the european parliament today recognises the courageous and tireless struggle of the opposition of the venezuelan people by awarding the sakharov prize to the democratically represented opposition in the national assembly - which i have the honour to preside over - and to all political prisoners in my country. i would like to applaud those who are with us: antonieta and leopoldo lópez, the parents of my personal friend leopoldo lópez; antonio ledezma, who had to flee venezuela from the unjust prison to which he was subjected; patricia de ceballos, the wife of daniel ceballos, who has been deprived of his freedom for almost four years; in addition to the relatives and representatives of lorent saleh, his mother, yamile; josé ignacio guédez, representative of the mayor alfredo ramos, and alejandra gonzález, sister of andrea gonzález, imprisoned for three years and a spanish citizen, in addition; also goico yonechea and the thousands and thousands of exiles from venezuela. (applause) we receive this distinction with deep gratitude. the whole country is welcoming it. he makes it his whole and united venezuela. it is a tribute to the mother who deprives herself of food to save her children; to the child who rummages through the garbage trying to satiate hunger; to the grandfather who dies of starvation due to lack of medicine. it is also received by the young man who has now emigrated in desperation to seek opportunities elsewhere. this award is also given to the teacher who overcomes ideological blindness and clings to the task of forming free men and women for venezuela. it is given to those who fight for human rights in venezuela. venezuelan journalists receive it, who risk their entire lives to show the reality that they want to be silenced. this distinction also cuts through the bars of the dungeons in which more than 350 young venezuelans are unjustly detained. they and their struggle are also recognized and are present with us today. (applause) but, in a special way, the sakharov prize honors the memory of one hundred and fifty-seven venezuelans killed by the brutal repression of the government during the peaceful protests that we held during this year 2017. when andrei sakharov was recognized with the nobel peace prize in 1975 he was unable to receive it personally. he stood outside a lithuanian court, awaiting the unjust sentence that would mark the life of his friend, scientist serghey kovalyev. in the nobel prize acceptance speech, read by his wife, were the names of more than a hundred political prisoners and exiles. his wife apologized for the ones she didn't remember, but she did make a very important point. she said: "each name, mentioned or not, represents a concrete, hard and heroic human destiny, of years of suffering, years of struggle for human dignity". these words, without a doubt, move the soul of every venezuelan today and sum up the persistence of the struggle we have and will have until we achieve the democratic victory in the country. (applause) i am convinced that our noble challenge is not alien to europe. you, honourable members, are not surprised by the fight we are waging in venezuela against domination and fear. in the 21st century, venezuelans are resisting and facing a totalitarian state, a second cuba but with the largest reserves of oil, gas and gold in the west. i can assure you that we, like you decades ago, are determined to persist and to defeat this perverse attempt to colonize the conscience of every venezuelan. the regime has hijacked democracy in my country. he instituted hunger to administer misery. he destroyed the health care system to manage death. he's expropriated thousands of businesses to spread misery. he indoctrinated the classrooms to offer ignorance. unlike social democracy, 21st century socialism is a renewed version and just as traumatic as the real socialism you suffered from for decades. and while it is doomed to failure, it has become the greatest obstacle to peace, progress and human rights in venezuela. (applause) the imposition of this system on our nation has caused unprecedented destruction and misery. please listen carefully to the following. after experiencing the biggest oil boom in its history in recent years, the venezuelan economy has just entered a traumatic process of hyperinflation: this year the cost of food will reach 2 000%. in other words, in venezuela it takes only a few hours to record the inflation that european countries accumulate in several years. hunger has become a political system in venezuela. 75% of venezuelans have lost ten kilos per person in the last few months and, if that were not enough, official studies show that four out of ten children suffer from some kind of malnutrition. death is also advancing in pharmacies: nine out of ten medicines are not available and people with chronic diseases are sentenced to death. the tragedy is obvious and painful. only the arrogance of those who see power as a form of domination ignores this reality and underestimates it, to the point of closing the doors to many countries like yourselves, who have generously offered us relief. i would like to reiterate this to europe today: the opening up of humanitarian cooperation in the field of food and medicine is urgent for venezuela. it is a demand that cries out to heaven and that we have put forward in all national and international forums. and, incredibly, the government of nicolás maduro refuses to cooperate with medicine and food for the people. sooner or later the long struggle for dignity referred to by sakharov will bear fruit and allow us to regain freedom. we also hold on to what our rómulo gallegos, great libertarian and president of venezuela, said. "evil is temporary", said gallegos, "but truth and justice reign forever". far from what those who want to dominate us want, those of us who are here and those of us in venezuela who are suffering are not full of hatred. and so i want to share with you what i consider to be one of our great triumphs: we hold no grudge against those who have done so much damage to venezuela. almost daily we are pushed to hate them, but they have not succeeded in doing so and we will not. but let us not lose hope nor stop fighting until we see a free venezuela and all venezuelans. (applause) the situation in our venezuela is difficult. we urgently need to make a political shift towards democracy to deal with this terrible humanitarian crisis created by the regime i have just described. we have not stopped raising our voices despite the distorting effect of censorship and propaganda. we stand firm in every space and every terrain possible. that is why we come to the international community, to you, the free world, to invoke the principles of international social justice and to find ways that contribute to the democratic rescue of my country. that's why we fight in the streets, in the assembly, in the international field, peacefully protesting for the restoration of democracy in venezuela. the images of the brutal repression that the security forces of the state unleashed against unarmed citizens are still vivid in our memory. many of them are young, who are now in prison and are not over twenty years old. the republic's arms were dedicated to mourning one hundred and fifty-seven venezuelan households. those weapons should not be used to resolve what we can resolve through the word and the vote, which is the vehicle for millions of venezuelans to express themselves. the vote cast in freedom is a declaration of independence. that's why we're obliged to rescue him. in the coming months there should be a presidential election in venezuela and we ask europe and the free world to give this election their full attention. we have the challenge of recovering electoral conditions that allow venezuelans to express themselves freely at the polls, without blackmail, without any kind of pressure, without repression, and that their will be respected. it's a fight that calls us all together and demands the best of all of us. we therefore welcome the words of president antonio tajani and we formally ask that an electoral mission from the european parliament accompany these elections which must take place in venezuela, so that they are free and there can be a democratic transition in my country. it is a difficult time, ladies and gentlemen, but we look to the future with hope. i look forward to the moment when the cells are opened, the exiles return and we all embrace each other, we cry with joy and work together to ensure that the constitution is respected, we have the rule of law and a democracy full of opportunities. friends of europe, christmas is coming and many venezuelan homes will receive the savior in the midst of severe material shortages, with nothing to eat. surely, with the same humility, faith and love that mary most holy and her husband st. joseph did more than two thousand years ago in bethlehem. on behalf of them, of those who suffer the most, of those who deserve a future of opportunity in venezuela, i humbly accept this award, which has been conferred on our indomitable love for peace, democracy, justice, progress and human rights. on behalf of the venezuelan people, thank you all very much!
representative of the democratic opposition of venezuela awarded the sakharov prize 2017. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i should be standing before you in this gallery with a smile on my face, but i do not even have the strength to fake it and, paraphrasing sakharov, i repeat with him the words that came from the lips of his selfless and unconditional wife when, at the time of receiving the nobel prize in 1965 - as our colleague julio borges reminded us - she said, on behalf of her husband, that she could not be happy and content to receive that prize knowing that in her country there were prisoners of conscience. well, i cannot be happy or content to receive this prize knowing that in the dungeons of venezuela more than three hundred political prisoners are unjustly deprived of their freedom. sakharov, you who are spiritually present in this sacred place, allow me to greet you and thank you in the name of humanity for your life devoted to the defense of peace, progress and the human rights of the beings who inhabit this land and to ratify, in the name of the venezuelan citizenship that today, of course, is proudly adorned with this distinction, that we receive it with the humility that has characterized our people, but also with the gallantry and courage that has put in the window of our country as an example of tenacious struggle that people in whose name we receive this laurel. we want to turn this award into flowers. let us turn this trophy into flowers to take to franklin brito's grave. a man whose last days were spent in a bunk, where he died leading a hunger strike, defending the land that had been usurped from him. and in the face and in the face and in the name of franklin brito i see the peasants, the farmers, the venezuelan ranchers who have suffered the blows of authoritarianism because their plots, their estates, their private property have been invaded again and again. we turned this trophy into flowers to take to the graves of more than 350,000 venezuelans whose homes are in mourning. venezuelans like those who last year, more than 29 000 citizens, lost their lives at the hands of the underworld in a country where the rule of law has disappeared and where the rule of law does not work but the whim of rulers who have pulverized the rules of the game designed to guarantee coexistence in a society with a democratic spirit such as that of venezuela. this award will be on the graves of the young squires who, as julio said, spilled their blood in the streets of caracas and all the towns of the country to draw our sentimental map. young people who didn't get to crown their twenties; who fought for a democracy they never got to know. for these young people i invoke in this room a posthumous prayer as a tribute to those who knew how to defend the ideals that are not agreed and who did not play with the conscience of a people that today proudly receives this laurel to continue fighting for freedom and venezuelan democracy that was the chair for latin america. (applause) this is a tribute to the children in venezuela who are starving. this is a tribute to human beings who have ceased to exist simply because they don't have a medicine on hand. and this is happening in a country that is immensely rich. julio borges has spoken of the burgeoning venezuela in whose bowels is the world's largest oil reserve. but it turns out that a country whose government has managed over the last few years more than 1.5 trillion dollars, ten times the budget allocated to the european union, today exhibits - as we saw in the images that were shown a few minutes ago - human beings rummaging through the garbage in order to survive. it's a people fighting for their survival. and to be free, we have to have freedom. and it is the voice of those political prisoners in whose name leopoldo lópez sent me this phrase or this thought that i want to share with you. leopold says: "freedom for those who live in healthy democracies is often an abstraction. for those of us who lack it, it's as vital as oxygen. we call on europe to remain firm in its commitment to achieve the freedom of more than 300 prisoners and 30 million venezuelans who today do not breathe freedom. (applause) this is the reflection of all political prisoners. it is the reflection of a people who want to solve their problems through civic and democratic means. that is why we proposed a constitutional referendum last year. a civic, democratic, legal way to settle our differences. we're not looking for god in the corner. we're not stoking the fire in the barracks or the garrisons. because, unlike those who today hold power in venezuela irregularly, who rule with rifles or bayonets, trampling on the constitution and the laws of the republic, we want peace. we're not here for revenge, but for justice. we come here free of hatred and resentment, because those are feelings that make the spirit sick and pervert the soul. we want venezuela to regain its freedom and its coexistence. and we wanted to propose electoral paths that the regime itself obtains, because venezuela is in the hands, and i say this with regret, of phonies who have turned our state into a failed state. we are ashamed that today we are talking about venezuela because there are high-level officials who are connected to drug trafficking. and the vienna office that controls narcotics operations on this continent has said that more than 60% of the cocaine entering europe comes from venezuelan territory. and those who are not connected to drug trafficking have links to international terrorism. and those that are not related to terrorism or drug trafficking are stuffed with scandals or acts of corruption. over $600 billion that has been siphoned off from public finances is deposited in tax havens around the world. and that is the paradox of an immensely rich country, with a people suffering inside and with a pilgrimage of more than two million citizens of venezuela who today suffer between the chest and back the pain of absent homeland. that's why, friends, this award strengthens us. this award gives us more energy to continue fighting for the values and principles of democracy that you share. to tell the world that people will never suffer from dictatorships again. let there be no more talk of political prisoners or tortured people in countries that have dressed up as democracies. let there be no more talk of divisions or emotional fractures. let us make way for concord. and with the words of maestro gallego i say goodbye to you: "today more than ever we are convinced that the more you belong to yourself the more your will and your life are put at the service of a collective ideal. i know. long live venezuela! long live democracy! long live the freedom of the world!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to deplore the fact that the communist group did not take part in the ceremony. this lack of respect for human rights is a disgrace.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by replying to mrs keller, who, in the plenary of the european parliament, is urging people to demonstrate in the streets, urging people in the european parliament to overthrow governments that have been democratically elected and we are talking about democracy. my dear colleagues, democracy is respect for the vote. in romania, the prospect of joining the schengen area has become a kind of discussion about the sex of angels, mr president, ladies and gentlemen that is, as much scholarly as useless. all politicians promise in the election campaign that they will convince europeans to accept romania in schengen, but neither citizens nor politicians themselves believe that anymore. a few months ago, president macron came to bucharest and from there went to sofia to convince us to support france's position on the posting of workers directive. when asked about the schengen area, he cut us short: schengen must be reformed and only then do we talk about romania and bulgaria joining. i understand very well the reticence of the western countries on the accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen in 2007. i understood it in 2010. i could have accepted this in 2012. all this time, border security efforts have cost a lot, a lot of money. but in 2015, the refugee invasion did not happen through romania and bulgaria, dear colleagues. clearly, keeping these countries out of schengen has another reason. i can also understand this reason: namely that some countries or some politicians in the west believe that the union should have two speeds. i can also understand president macron suggesting that he would like to renegotiate the schengen agreement. what i can't understand is the hypocrisy and the false friends. it's okay for nations to want to control their borders. it's okay to have a two- or multi-speed union. but it's not ok for big or powerful countries to prevent smaller or weaker countries from adopting the same protectionist measures as the big ones. i am a strong supporter of competition and believe that egalitarianism inhibits the desire and ability to progress. i am therefore not campaigning for the uniformity of europe, but for equality of opportunity and genuine independence of the member states. if the big, powerful states want to prevent the smaller countries from making progress by creating artificial obstacles, then the european union will cease to exist. reforming the schengen area can be an interesting project, but it also necessarily implies the beginning of a profound reform of the entire european union. from 1957 to maastricht, the european community developed through successive additions, made possible by the small number of member states. but now, the petition is no longer possible! we need a real reform of the european union, ladies and gentlemen.
mr president, romania has secured its borders and fulfilled its commitment under the accession treaty. he spent over a billion euros of his own money and the schengen facility, under the guise of a franco-german concert. the romanian border is much more secure than other external borders, such as france's southern mediterranean border. unfortunately, this happened in 2011. i was meeting all the conditions. we were not accepted into schengen and we were not accepted afterwards. the reasons given are purely populist or national, because of the national elections: each state wanted to show voters what efforts it was making for a subject that did not exist. i think this situation needs to be approached differently. the fact that in romania there are, i know, political events that are not in line with european norms is true. and now there are such things: justice laws are attacked in parliament. these things need to be dealt with separately and i ask the commission to do so. but schengen must also be treated separately. i think joining airports is a common sense thing to do at this point. the council should do so without delay and, subsequently, at land borders.
mr president, i am one of the strongest supporters of romania's entry into schengen. but i work for it and i don't come with empty words, as do my socialist colleagues from psd and alde, who are in government and who say they want romania in schengen but, in reality, they do everything to prevent this. i'll give you a few examples: at this moment, the parliament of romania is voting on the amendment of the laws of justice in the emergency procedure practically, in secret, without debate. people watch tv and see on tv what is changing and all this to politically subjugate the judiciary, to no longer have the rule of law about the rule of law, which should unite us and to create mechanisms of investigation, of threats and of blackmailing judges and prosecutors. why would you do that? to get rid of the politicians from alde and psd in government. if you do these things and say you want to join schengen, then you ask yourself a question: do you really want to join schengen or do you just come and speak in the plenary of the parliament and say you want to join schengen? yes, i want to enter schengen and that's why i don't even link the cvm to schengen, because the cvm is one. the commission never asked for this link, and it must stop when all are met. whatever is happening in romania today, on justice, is contrary to the cvm. yes, let's enter schengen, but work for it, dear socialist and alde colleagues.
mr president, commissioner, minister maasikas, i will say at the outset that i do not intend to teach my colleagues at the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, much less mrs macovei, what schengen means. it would be a waste of time. romania and bulgaria are two deeply european countries with major contributions to frontex, recognised as such, and contribute considerably to ensuring the control and security of the external borders of the european union, while being honestly and loyally committed to building the future of the european union. successive reports by the european parliament and successive evaluations by the european commission since 2011 have confirmed the fulfilment of all - i repeat, all - the technical standards set out in the accession process. the opposition of some member states is based more on political and economic reasons and is already becoming a clear form of discrimination, which continues to affect both states negatively, including economically. the european parliament must today ask the council to finally implement the commission's proposal of two months ago for the immediate admission of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, convinced that the values of solidarity between member states and the exclusion of double standards are not just good slogans for the election campaign. i conclude with confidence and hope that the european partners of romania and bulgaria and croatia will unfreeze this dossier so that the two countries, romania and bulgaria, become members of the schengen area as soon as possible and croatia will join when the conditions are met.
mr president, commissioner, i want to assure you that for the romanian and bulgarian citizens too, the schengen area is a symbol. what our citizens don't understand is why we allow some member states, with so-called consolidated democracies, to make a mockery of the symbols of the european union. if we all value freedom of movement, if we all want more europe, why do we accept that some do not respect the european treaties and introduce parasitic and precarious conditions in treaties that do not provide for such conditions? mr president, we are convinced that we have met the criteria, but we are becoming increasingly convinced that a double language is being formed, a european pharisaism that our citizens do not accept. we are european citizens, we are citizens with equal rights, we want more europe, we want more trust in europe and those who created this union must understand that trust is what matters, not cheap partisan political games. if france, if the netherlands, if austria, if germany, want more europe, they will have to vote in the european council for the schengen area. it will show that they have confidence in what they say in their public speeches and that they do not use a double-speak, primarily political, in their dealings with other countries. romania is not a colony, romania is not a peripheral state, romania is a member state of the european union, it has a language that is a language of the european union and for that, romanian citizens demand respect from those who forgot to give it to us too long ago.
mr president, these days mark seven years since the last technical assessment of romania's schengen dossier. as of summer 2011, the commission and the parliament consider that romania is ready to enter the free movement area. since then, several european governments have opposed this entry. the argument was that the security of the schengen area is affected by the flawed way the rule of law in romania is functioning. the cooperation and verification mechanism thus became the key to unlocking the schengen gate. in the last five years, the governments in bucharest have had three attitudes regarding the cvm. the first was the direct undermining of justice, including constitutional justice. the ponta government and the psd-pnl majority threw romania into a very serious institutional crisis in the summer of 2012, adding new criteria to be met in the cvm file. later, angry that europeans were waiting for an independent judiciary, prime minister ponta and foreign minister corlatean said they were no longer interested in schengen. the second attitude was the effort to improve the functioning of the judiciary. it's a short period, unfortunately, when dacian ciolos was prime minister. finally, since the beginning of the year, the assault on the rule of law has been resumed by the grindeanu and tudose governments. the psd-alde majority wants to limit the independence of the magistrates and protect the corrupt. in january they used an emergency ordinance passed at midnight. for weeks they've had a voting machine handy, well-oiled by corrupt, big-time or incompatible mps. as the critics of 6 years ago from other member states have not changed their opinion about the schengen-cvm relationship, as long as there is no justice in romania, there will be no full freedom of movement for romanians.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches. i cannot say this enough, but the schengen area is, for me, the greatest achievement of the european union, for citizens in particular and their rights as europeans, but also for our economies. more than that, schengen is a symbol of trust between the member states. it is a sign that european countries are working together, living together and not against each other. while the migration and security challenges require us to strengthen, adapt and reform the schengen area, addressing them does not imply going backwards. the member states must instead face this common challenge together, united in a stronger schengen area. it is therefore high time that bulgaria and romania also become full members of the schengen area and that croatia does the same when it is ready. bulgaria and romania have demonstrated their capacity to become full members of the schengen area and should therefore be able to join in the very near future. the future of the schengen area lies in the right balance between two important principles: freedom of movement and the need to be able to deal with major security threats. the reintroduction of internal border controls is therefore the exception, i repeat, the exception. the commission has therefore put forward a proposal to amend the schengen border codes in order to maintain precisely this balance and to ensure a coordinated approach of the european union to internal border controls. in return for a longer period of time to reintroduce internal border controls, we propose to strengthen the procedures and the duty to cooperate with neighbouring member states. i am very pleased to see that bulgaria, as the next presidency, is determined to make these issues a priority. now, allow me to speak for a few minutes in greek to answer the concerns of the greek members of parliament. mr president, i just said that you would allow me to reply in greek to the concerns of greek meps. it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that germany has imposed increased checks on flights from greece. but both the greek and german authorities are cooperating to resolve this issue and i certainly encourage the continuation of this cooperation. we are also in contact with the authorities in both countries. as you may recall, a tripartite meeting of experts was held on 22 november on the initiative of the commission, namely greece, germany and the commission. the meeting facilitated a constructive exchange of views and discussion on practical issues, mainly to reduce the burden on passengers. i do not hide from you that i have accepted with satisfaction the assurances given by germany that checks will now only be carried out at the gate within the schengen arrivals area of german airports. the on-the-spot checks shall be limited to checks on the identity and validity of travel documents. so far we have received no information to the contrary from either the german or the greek side. i also welcome the clarification from the representatives of greece on the strengthening of the existing checks at greek airports. we will continue to work closely and constructively with germany and greece to resolve this issue. as far as belgium is concerned, the belgian authorities have officially informed us that they are carrying out non-systematic, i.e. sporadic, police checks at brussels airport, on the basis of risk assessments, not only on flights coming from greece but also from other member states of the european union. the same must be said for the greek authorities at times when there is a risk assessment. this right is enjoyed by all the countries of the european union and is occasionally exercised when there is a notification. so it was something that happened once. it hasn't happened since. i'll tell you that i too travel from greece to belgium and i didn't feel that there was anything special. i think that was an overreaction, but it was done correctly, anyway, to clarify this issue. let me remind you that these police checks are not arbitrary. the schengen borders code is the only one that applies. especially for france, as mentioned earlier, i would remind you that it has reintroduced temporary border controls as have other countries. in my introductory speech i explained the situation. now will you allow me to change and speak english again, to answer questions from your colleagues. i will turn to english to answer some of your questions. one of them was from ms. fajon. yes, six member states are currently carrying out temporary internal border controls in line, as i said before, with the schengen rules. i welcome that these member states too share the goal of returning to an area without internal border controls. according to these member states, the controls are being carried out in a targeted manner and strictly limited to safeguarding public policy or internal security, and the impact on free movement will be limited. the commission is in close contact with them. my services are finalizing the analysis of all letters received and, whenever further clarifications are needed, follow-up letters will be sent. as i said already, internal border controls are an exception used only as a measure of last resort. it is important now that member states make progress in the discussions on a proposal to update the schengen borders code to be fit for the current context. here i want to be crystal clear: the commission's objective is and will continue to be to preserve and strengthen the schengen area as an area without internal border controls. i'm glad to see that we here share the same objective. i have also listened carefully to the strong message of mr moraes, chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). i would like to qualify him as a guardian of schengen because he has been advocating and fighting for it from the very first moment. he has been expressing the full support of this house, through the libe committee, for bulgaria and romania and croatia to join schengen as soon as possible. once again, i hope that the council - because it is now up to the council to take the final decision - will hear this double call from this room: the call of the commission and the call of parliament, and that we will all very soon be in the happy position of opening the doors of the european union to our fellow citizens, fellow europeans, of bulgaria, romania and croatia.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, please be reassured that the presidency has taken good note of all the comments that were made today on this subject, including that of commissioner avramopoulos at the end of the debate. i would like to reiterate the council’s strong determination to carry on with our work until we reach our ultimate goal, which is the preservation and further development of schengen, including via enlargement, which will be on the council agenda in the coming months.
mr president, this is not a point of order, it is a reply, a personal statement, because my name has been mentioned by a colleague in parliament, mr boștinaru, a member of the psd, and according to the rules of procedure i have the right to reply. i was asked by mr boštinaru if i knew what schengen meant, because he felt he didn't have to lecture me and i want to tell him that yes, i know what schengen means. i was the rapporteur of the parliament for the amendment of the schengen code and i introduced romania and bulgaria among the states that must secure the external border of the european union, with equal rights and obligations towards the other member states. so i took a step forward, precisely for the accession of my country and bulgaria to schengen, because in the original commission report there were no romania and bulgaria. but what did this socialist government and alde do in romania? of the more than 60 million allocated to the 'border and border control' component, less than 10% has been used so far. they did not buy any scanners to check who is entering and leaving the european union and to protect the union against terrorism (the speaker was interrupted).
in writing. i think that the enlargement of the schengen area cannot be delayed any longer: the commission has already stated that romania and bulgaria are ready to join and these countries and their citizens have been waiting for years for a positive decision from the eu's interior ministers. the eu monitoring of the judicial system of the two countries has no connection with schengen accession, it is a violation of european law to link these two things. the commission could also consider introducing a union mechanism similar to the monitoring report for the amount of the member state, as member states will accept this type of control if they do not differentiate between them and do not feel that it is a manifestation of double standards. this kind of monitoring mechanism could of course be applied and operated with great caution, but if the aim is really to build a people's europe, then the eu cannot do otherwise.
in writing. following romania's efforts to meet the criteria for accession to the schengen area, it is clear that our country can no longer live on empty promises and must be part of this area. as the european commission and the ep have acknowledged, for more than six years, our country has met all the technical criteria. moreover, romania is already a member of and is implementing the systems established to better manage the union's external borders, such as the schengen information system or the visa information system. however, i believe that this ambiguous status in which romania is both an observer and a de facto participant must end. we should instead focus on strengthening the current schengen area and its external borders and put more emphasis on solidarity. the refusal to extend the schengen area to romania betrays a lack of solidarity and disregards the commitments undertaken. schengen membership is not a favour to romania or bulgaria, but a situation of normality and necessity for europe. this permanent postponement only adds to the bitter taste of injustice and erodes the popularity of the european project and the principle of equality between member states.
in writing. in a europe with a changing labour market, it is important to take account of the changing realities of this market for example, the advanced digitalisation of society requires the development of digital skills in the workforce. this is also why it is very important to clearly define the content and role of the european pillar of social rights and how social equity and justice could be ensured in europe. there is already a strong social dimension in europe today, but there is a need to focus on increasing the contribution of social europe to europe's global competitiveness. i also believe that the social pillar must offer a positive project for all european citizens, regardless of the region in which they live and throughout the stages of the life cycle. i also believe that it is beneficial for its provisions to apply to all member states of the union, to ensure equal opportunities and access to the labour market for all citizens, as well as fair working conditions and social protection and inclusion.
in writing. – the social pillar should be the backbone of the eu, but this should not be a slogan but must be reflected in concrete measures for social cohesion. we still have many poor citizens, children living in poverty, social inequities, lack of access to the labour market for people with disabilities. closing the borders and protectionism will not solve the social problem, nor will non-admission of romania and bulgaria to schengen increase well-being in the other states. the concept of the eu, the philosophy of its existence, consists of solidarity, social cohesion and the security of citizens’ lives. together, member states are stronger, but there is a need to improve the mechanisms that increase social cohesion and improve the lives of social generations.
mr president, i welcome as well the eurostat report, but at the same time i stress the importance of regularly revising the eu sdg indicators set, so that the latest remain in line with future policy developments and progress. according to the findings, overall the eu made progress towards the 17 sdgs over the past five years, with progress for some goals having been faster than for others. however, we have to remain cautious because advancement towards a given goal does not entail per se that the status of the respective goal is satisfactory for the european union. moreover, i would like to put forward some remarks. the report does not provide enough information to develop conclusions on whether the european union’s efforts will be successful in attaining the sdg targets by 2030, and fell short on measuring the eu’s impact on sustainable development from a global perspective. therefore, this shortcoming sends a strong signal on the need to revise the indicator set, to fill the existing gaps and to put in place a more ambitious and comprehensive monitoring system.
mr president, commissioner, saving lives must be the concern of the national authorities, but also of those at european level, and i congratulate you for having thought of and wanting to introduce a new mechanism. we need to strengthen civil protection, the capacity of the population to react. we also need prevention in terms of fire prevention, but to prevent, we need education, we need to understand and know the risks. unfortunately, climate change is leading to natural disasters, to fires, to floods, to landslides. there is a loss of life and i strongly believe that we cannot leave it to the national authorities alone. that is why i strongly believe in a european mechanism, in solidarity, in mutual support, in the sharing of positive experiences from one state to another and, finally, we also need the budget, because we need certain specific resources for interventions. we must also take into account the need for adequate funding in the future.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure my dear colleague, you said it was childish to ban certain symbols. of course, we're not talking about specific symbols here, we're specifying which ones. do you believe that the symbols of nazism, of fascism, as demonstrated by historians, by specialists, can influence children, young people to be extremist, to commit acts of violence? do you think these symbols can influence children?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must unequivocally condemn any form of sexual abuse or exploitation of children. child sexual abuse is, unfortunately, a crime that is difficult to disclose and report. and here the commissioner has said very well: we must not point fingers at each other. here we simply have to work as a team, to be in solidarity - the european institutions with the national ones. the reporter, anna maria, and her colleagues have shown us precisely new ways to be able to identify these abuses. there must be better police and judicial cooperation between member states, and the tools provided by europol and eurojust must be used. it's about assistance, about protecting the victims. not all countries have adequate and sufficient infrastructure. but, commissioner, mr president, dear anna maria, i think that education is needed to prevent possible victims, especially children. sex education, to prevent children from being trapped, is extraordinarily important, i think, and the sexual exploitation of children online, we have to admit, is on the rise, which is why i agree to block those websites that contain information of this kind. and finally, we must tighten the penalties, because any such misconduct is a crime.
mr president the report places particular emphasis on prevention as the most effective means of combating abuse and exploitation. the most vulnerable are the children who are forced to grow up without parents, at best under the supervision of other adults, at other times without any supervision at all. in my member state, romania, the situation of unaccompanied minors is a serious problem. this is because millions of romanian citizens work in the wealthier western eu member states and many leave their children to be raised by grandparents, friends or on their own. it is now a mass phenomenon in romania and is causing serious problems. according to one statistic, there are tens of thousands of such children in the country, and many are evidently not listed in official records. this phenomenon is also known in other central and eastern european countries. if we're talking about prevention, we need to do something about these harmful practices, because parental supervision is irreplaceable, and children who are not with their parents will always be vulnerable. we cannot allow the right to free movement within the union to encourage situations in which children become vulnerable.
in writing. children are the future of humanity and the violation of their fundamental rights is a direct attack on humanity. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies, and on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the commission. in order to combat this scourge, it is imperative that all member states step up their efforts to fully and correctly transpose directive 2011/93/eu of the european parliament and of the council on combating the sexual abuse of children, the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. at the same time, member states should ensure the exchange of good practices on educational materials and training programmes for all actors involved (teachers, parents, educators, law enforcement authorities). we certainly regret that member states have encountered considerable difficulties in implementing that robust and comprehensive legal framework for combating child sexual abuse and sexual exploitation, in particular as regards provisions on prevention, investigation and prosecution, and protection and assistance to victims.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur mr marias for his accurate and comprehensive report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2016. i also take the opportunity to thank ms wikström and the whole committee on petitions for its important work. like its predecessors in previous years, the report gives evidence of the broad spectrum of issues that petitioners bring to the committee on petitions’ attention each year, and of the committee’s efforts to ensure that the voices of those petitioners are heard. the commission shares parliament’s view that the right to petition is both a fundamental right of all eu citizens and a key element of participatory democracy, allowing for citizens’ active engagement in the fields of eu action. petitions are an effective channel for direct contact and an open dialogue on problems affecting citizens in their daily life, especially in this day and age where democracy requires new ways and means to connect the eu’s institutions to the citizens they serve. this is also another very important tool to understand the pulse of europe. citizens often turn to the committee as a last resort because they feel that they have exhausted all other avenues and we – i mean both the commission and parliament – can demonstrate that we listen to their concerns and take them seriously, by offering proper responses and showing existing solutions at european or national level. this is a concrete example of how we can collaborate to restore citizens’ confidence and trust in the european project. as the report points out, our institutions have built good working relationships in recent years when it comes to handling petitions. of the petitions declared admissible by parliament in 2016, more than two-thirds were referred to the commission for an opinion. in return, the 900 replies that the commission sent back to parliament in 2016 testify to our engagement to support the critical work of the committee, which the commission takes very seriously. all commission replies are widely consulted among services, and suitably ranked officials with expert knowledge of the issues discussed are there to assist in the committee’s meetings with the aim of providing the most meaningful and up to date information in a timely manner, as your report also recognises. i note the report’s insistence on providing ever better answers, and to be sure there is always room for improvement and the commission will recommit itself to improving wherever we can in our effort to provide meaningful answers in a timely manner. i am therefore pleased to reaffirm the commitment of the commission to keep up our good collaboration and to bring forward the eu added value in the resolution of petitioners’ concerns. let me turn specifically to one of the issues raised prominently in the report by mr marias, namely the implementation of eu legislation. the commission attaches particular importance to acting firmly and quickly when infringement proceedings are launched, especially when they obstruct key eu policy objectives. to this goal, the commission adopted, in its communication ‘eu law: better results through better application’ of december 2016, a new approach to infringement policy that is more strategic, effective and proportionate. moreover, it will also not automatically rely on the eu pilot mechanism unless we see it as particularly useful on a case-by-case basis. another concrete step to enhance transparency of decisions on infringement procedures is the centralised platform on our europa website where the commission proactively disseminates information on infringements. the commission will continue to provide parliament and the public with comprehensive information on monitoring the implementation of eu legislation and its follow-up. however, this needs to be done while respecting confidentiality obligations towards member states in infringement procedures, as recognised by the european court of justice. the report also touches upon a number of other important issues, for which the views of parliament and the commission largely converge. let me only mention the high priority in preserving citizens’ rights after the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union, or the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. i will however, mr president, end my remarks by once again thanking mr marias for his is very helpful report. i look forward to hearing the views of the honourable members in the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. except, of course, for this obsession with german debts, he did a very good job, i think. this is an important report, highlighting the highlights of our activities over the past year. the work of the committee on petitions has improved considerably and become more efficient since the introduction of the new administrative procedure in 2014. it is essential that parliament deal with petitions and give a response to citizens within a reasonable time. to do this, we must concentrate on the petitions that are admissible. another point about the functioning of our committee is the working groups. they should have a clearly defined mandate aimed at facilitating the processing of petitions. the peti committee network is an essential tool which would benefit from greater publicity as it links petitions to legislative work in parliament. we have covered topics that are essential for petitioners this year, and one of those topics is brexit. our committee is a staunch defender of citizens' rights. whether they are british or other europeans, their concerns are legitimate and we must do everything we can to ensure that they are heard. there is also the european citizens' initiative, which must now be used to the full to increase citizens' confidence in the european institutions. cooperation with the european commission and the member states is essential for the handling of petitions, which is why we ask to be informed more and regularly about infringement procedures.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the committee on petitions because, from the report, we can all see progress particularly in the quality of the work, because it is not just about quantity. i really believe that petitioning is the way citizens can reveal a problem, usually a problem that they have not been able to solve at the national level. i also think that this committee of ours, the european parliament, is very important and the way petitions are dealt with and, above all, the timing of the communication of the outcome of the petition is important. the citizens must have confidence in the committee on petitions and i believe that the work done by my colleagues was good and complex. the report shows that the number of petitions increased from 2000 to 2016. i also think we need to look at the issues and it can be seen that compared to 2015, when petitions for the environment and justice were at the top, here in 2016, most of the petitions are for the internal market. that is why i recommend that the commission and the member states monitor the way in which the directives governing the internal market are applied, because we all know that this affects the economic environment, but also the lives of citizens.
madam president, commissioner, i am a member of the tran commission and i believe that transport mobility needs to be improved, obviously, taking into account the reduction of emissions, because statistics show that 25% of the emissions in the european union are from transport and 70% from road transport. i am glad that the report has focused on urban transport, where we can have a major contribution to reducing emissions, and i think it is important to switch to alternative fuels first at this level. we know that according to the world health organization, traffic noise is the second most important environmental stressor. so we need a transition to green transport; therefore we need investment in research, in the automotive industry, to have efficient and clean transport. the 2011 white paper on transport makes it very clear that we need a sustainable mobility policy and that we need to rely on a wide range of policy instruments to ensure an effective transition. i appreciate, commissioner, that you mentioned that we need to set realistic targets.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the cambodian supreme court has just made cambodia a one-party state. this decision, unsurprisingly, confirms that justice is in the hands of prime minister hun sen. this is the last step in the dismantling of all political opposition to the regime. the crackdown is not new, it ended with the arrest of kem sokha, accused of plotting with the united states. since his arrest in violation of his parliamentary immunity, the government has launched a propaganda campaign accusing the cambodia national rescue party (cnrp) of being at the center of an anti-government conspiracy. the opposition is not the only victim: media and human rights activists are also victims. how can we expect to organize a free electoral process in july 2018 in such a climate of violation of human rights and the rule of law? i believe that the european union must respond firmly to this authoritarian drift by putting pressure not only on the cambodian government but also on its chinese neighbour, who does not hesitate to encourage this attitude.
madam president, as the banning of the opposition clearly shows, the prime minister and his ruling party are only willing to hold free elections if they are sure that they will win and they do not shy away from deploying anti—democratic practices to secure their rule. sadly, ordering the closure of the main opposition party follows a wider pattern in this regard. independent media outlets have already been reduced to silence and critical ngos have been under attack. the government also expressed its intention to prosecute people who criticise it on social media. unfortunately, these incidents are taking place in the context of a shift away from the west, and the us administration’s diminished interest in human rights. even so, the eu is still the biggest grant donor in cambodia. china has recently increased its aid and investment in the country without human rights strings attached. to reverse this trend, the eu should use all its means to put pressure on the cambodian government to restore the democratic principles from its constitution.
mr president in countries with democratic systems, the lack of political representation of minorities and the resulting conflicts are a constant concern. when a linguistic or ethnically based community is faced with the majority constantly imposing its will, not involving it in decisions that affect the life of the country, or directly discriminating against members of the minority community, then conflict is encoded into the situation. the european union cannot change the political and social systems of all countries, but it could set an example to the world in ensuring human rights and the protection of minorities. unfortunately, this example is not clear today, as the eu institutions do not put pressure on member states for their often deficient policies and practices in the area of minority protection. the report emphasises that minority communities have specific needs and that the rights and full equality of these communities must be promoted in all areas of economic, social, political and cultural life. this finding should also be valid in the union.
mr president, i voted for this report and i have to say that i did not understand the colleagues who did not vote and there were many who did not vote. if we're talking about sexual abuse, if we're talking about this violence against children, i don't think we should have any reservations about making improvements to what's there. now, of course we have directives, we have national regulations, european regulations, but we see that the numbers are frightening. child sexual abuse is on the rise and we need to find new mechanisms, european and national, to ensure on the one hand prevention, education of children, to block these websites - and i am glad that this is included in the report - which promote images of children being sexually abused. and we also need to build shelters and have the infrastructure to get the children out who are enduring this sexual abuse and this violence in the family or in school. so i voted for this report and i hope that there will be a proper application.
mr president i am not pleased that in the last two years a remarkable number of petitions have been received by the committee from romania. in terms of population, it is only surpassed by greece. the almost 100 petitions in one year mean that romanian citizens are aware of their rights related to eu citizenship and the means to exercise them, and this is welcome. however, the very high number of petitions also points to systemic problems in romania, which require the commission's particular attention in certain areas. i do not believe that the rule of law and the guarantee of fundamental rights should be limited to hungary and poland, but that a mechanism covering all member states is needed. the number of petitions shows that in all member states there are cases which can give rise to disputes and which cannot be resolved by the member state authorities. it is certain that if they prefer to select certain countries, romania should be among them.
mr president, i voted for this report. i think we need to know the problems of the citizens. the committee on petitions may take up petitions from european citizens. i'd like to bring up some numbers here. my country is not first. romania is in fourth place, it's not in first place for petitions, but one thing again relevant has dropped. and perhaps most relevant is to look at what sector the petitions are coming from. first of all, as a field of activity, in 2016 the petitions were related to how the internal market works and not to the environment and not to justice and not to human rights. so i think that we, the european parliament, the commission, the national authorities, have to see what the citizens are complaining about in relation to the functioning of the internal market and demand that a fair market is put in place. finally, citizens' rights are also linked to the functioning of the internal market and i believe that this report brings improvements and we, meps, must say in our countries that there is this lever through which the citizen can complain about a problem that has not been solved in his country.
mr president, as a member of the tran committee and of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i voted in favour of this report. there are a lot of things that bring improvement. we all know that transport affects the competitiveness of our economies in our countries and in the internal market. at the same time, i was glad that the report focused on urban transport and i believe - and i said in the plenary - that we need to start there, with urban transport, to move from a petrol-fuelled to electric cars and vehicles. i also welcome the commissioner's position and the report also sets out what was included in the 2011 white paper on the transition to green transport: to take into account the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, to invest in technology and research, to have car fleets and the necessary infrastructure for electricity supply and thus to achieve a competitive and clean economy.
