the council reiterates its call for the relocation of migrants under existing relocation schemes. so once again, the member states that have taken in huge numbers of migrants and even welcomed them are putting pressure on those countries that had the sense to take in these migrants. of course, there will be no redistribution now, but these are the kind of intractable challenges that prevent a real solution, and that is the refugee camps in north africa. if they exist, for example, the italian coastguard can immediately transport all 'saved' migrants to such a camp, where they can apply for asylum. i speak of 'saved as' because what is really happening is a gross misuse of european coastguards. the migrants rely on the hope that as soon as possible, preferably a few miles off the african coast, a ship will be found to take them safely to africa. but if there are any such refugee camps in north africa, the coast guard will transport them there. and at that point, the expensive and dangerous journey across the mediterranean ceases to be interesting.
first of all, i want to commend the european union's position on turkey. we are no longer relying on a deal with a country that is on the one hand important, but on the other hand unstable. turkish president erdogan has been trying to focus on consolidating power in his hands lately. the eu must address the crisis proactively, and i welcome the fact that european leaders have heeded the call to address the crisis at its source. the december summit pointed to the need for agreements with refugee home states. countries such as libya, tunisia or egypt in particular are key to migration, and the only possible response is to contribute in a fundamental way to their stabilisation. according to a survey, up to 40% of young tunisians want to leave their country for europe. the aid must therefore be of a financial but also of an institutional nature. i call for an intensification of this effort, because time is against us again. the migration waves increase again in spring and summer, and we have to be prepared for this situation.
in writing. the president of the european council, donald tusk, presented the conclusions of the european council meeting of 15 december 2016. the european union has achieved a number of successes in the past year. thanks to the agreement with turkey and better controls at the external borders, the number of migrants entering the eu has decreased. the association agreement with ukraine, which has been ratified by the 27 eu member states and the european parliament and is of great importance for the eu's stability and credibility, is also a success. sanctions against russia have been extended for a further six months as russia has not implemented the minsk agreement. the eu is ready to strengthen cooperation with nato, but at the same time to work towards the creation of a european defence union. internal and external security is the eu's responsibility. 2017 is also likely to be marked by reforms within the ecb, trade defence instruments and discussions with the united kingdom on leaving the union. we are all called to find solutions to today's problems, and the european union must act together, unitedly and responsibly in a global world.
in writing. the report on logistics and multimodal transport in the ten-t corridors addresses the need for efficient and sustainable freight transport using not only roads but also rail and waterways. across europe, more than 11 million people are employed in logistics and the sector generates almost 14% of eu gdp. the freight transport sector is expected to grow in the future, and we therefore call for its modernisation. this is also linked to the european commission's commitment in its white paper on transport to transfer 30% of road freight over 300 km to rail or water transport by 2030. in order to achieve this objective, it will be essential for member states to ensure the development of their infrastructure. the prerequisite for the establishment of a multimodal infrastructure is provided by the ten-t framework, but coordination of its implementation is still insufficient. in particular, member states will have to reduce regulatory, operational and technical barriers. at the same time, the introduction of new technologies, digital solutions or even automatically controlled means of transport should be advanced. the gradual shift of freight traffic to unused rail corridors and water transport will significantly improve the environment and make life easier for residents who live close to road infrastructure.
in writing. the social systems in most european countries continue to set an example for the rest of the world in terms of their functioning and outcomes. however, experience and the consequences of the economic and debt crisis have weakened confidence in their functioning. the european pillar of social rights aims to reform social systems and better adapt them to the conditions of the 21st century. social systems must regain the trust of the people. they must provide effective guarantees and cope with shocks, especially in difficult times of economic crisis. conditions and needs in the social systems of european countries vary. but the common goal is the prosperity of the citizens. we certainly agree on that in europe. effective cooperation is important to achieve this, not blind calls to break up the european union and incite mutual hostility. the aim must be to create sustainable jobs, but also to ensure decent and fair working conditions. also reducing intolerable social disparities while promoting social investment. better regulation of international capital, with a focus on tax systems, is also a prerequisite. more should be done to prevent money from european countries with good tax systems from flowing into tax havens.
mr president, the situation in south sudan has been significantly deteriorating in the past months. massacres, gang rapes and destruction, combined with hunger, are leading to the population fleeing the country. there needs to be a political solution to the civil war. this involves advances on the proposed national dialogue and a return to the 2015 agreement. the eu should contribute to the south sudan peace process, especially in the area of justice, where our assistance can be instrumental. i would therefore like to support the earlier call by the vice-president/high representative to establish a hybrid court that will investigate the atrocities committed. this is why our political and diplomatic influence can bring actual tangible results for the south sudanese population, who deserve much more than the current international community is offering to them.
in writing. erasmus+ plays a crucial role in strengthening european identity and integration. it contributes to the quality of education. it has a high success rate. graduates of this program also have a much better chance of getting a job, according to statistics. it is also an important element in the field of youth mobility, education and training and lifelong learning. this project should also be targeted more towards secondary school students. at the same time, rules need to be simplified, terms clarified and interpreted, flat-rate financing used and payment deadlines shortened, which are often a problem for smaller organisations when engaging in projects. it's about supporting teachers, students, the program supports sports organizations. it provides flexible language support on the internet. one in ten project participants comes from disadvantaged backgrounds or has special needs. the program has far more applicants than we can cover. that's why we need to ask for another increase in funding.
in writing. the initial concept of erasmus+ and its complexity have forced it to be made more efficient for the benefit of those who benefit from it. this approach allows for cooperation between the different sectors of the programme and the education sectors that erasmus+ opens up to young people and those who wish to benefit from it. in addition, we seek to eliminate any unfairness that may occur in the selection of candidates and to simplify the existing tools of this programme instead of adding new ones.
in writing the process of adopting a child is not easy. the outcome of the case shall be decided by the court on the basis of a proposal by the applicants. in the event of a positive outcome, adoptive parents have the same responsibilities, rights and obligations as the biological parents in the upbringing of the children. however, misunderstandings may arise when traveling or moving with such children to other countries. unfortunately, there is currently no international or common european framework that ensures automatic recognition of national adoption decisions. the result will be no binding regulation. rather, it is a matter of developing recommendations and best practices to ensure that such families, for example when moving to another country within the european union, do not have to apply for recognition of an already issued domestic decision. this would remove some administrative obstacles and strengthen the protection of the rights of children as well as their parents. this would make life easier for them and, at least in this area, protect them from possible further stressful situations.
adoption must be in the best interests of the child. the member states shall define by law when this interest is satisfied. if the european union orders states to automatically recognise adoptions that are not permitted by their own laws, it would be a gross interference with their exclusive powers in the area of family law. the result of such intervention will be that the best interests of the child for the union as a whole are defined by the member state with the most liberal laws. in other states, a schizophrenic situation will arise and their courts will have to deal with discrimination lawsuits. the rapporteur's effort to define minimum standards for adoption is commendable. however, it should have stopped where member states' views on the family and child adoption diverge. that is why i could not support this report.
madam president, a european regulation where the rights of the child are prioritised should be welcomed. however this report calls for measures that we should absolutely reject. in the name of convenience and harmonisation of documents, children would be at the risk of being trafficked across borders. already some member states have seen a dramatic rise in the number of children being taken into care away from their biological parents. research into abuse consistently shows that natural parents are the ones least likely to abuse their children. we cannot put children at risk by loosening the strict adoption procedures in place, by imposing a poor, one-size-fits-all european regulation. a child needs both father and mother to flourish. let us invest in supporting that most important family unit, helping biological parents raise their children even in difficult circumstances.
thank you, mr president, thank you, mr commissioner! i would also like to thank my colleagues went and neuser for the great work they have done in preparing this report. i have two major reservations about the final text. first, the malthusian perspective does not belong in the european document. it's unscientific and has a colonial flavor. eu development aid must focus on tackling the real causes of poverty - poor governance, lack of education and violence - and not on promoting population policies modelled on the chinese communist party. secondly, we cannot ignore the fact that there is no consensus among eu member states on the understanding of sexual and reproductive rights and services. these issues cannot therefore be part of the european consensus on development. paragraph 23 is not part of the text of this resolution and if it is passed, i will not be able to support the resolution. thank you very much.
madam president, mental health in europe is a vital topic and worthy of clinical research. but the rapporteur has produced a very bad report on this topic here. a large part of this report is based on fake gender ideological claims. it certainly is not scientific research; for example, recital o, which says that ‘whereas transgender identities are not pathological, but are deplorably still considered mental health disorders’, and that this is a diagnosis that causes distress to those receiving it. true scientific research should be carried out which is examined by specialists and not used for political ends. politics should not dictate what changes are made in medical text books. recital r refers to ‘gender-variant prepubescent children’. what are we doing confusing our children by encouraging them to choose their sex? this is a recipe for mental health problems. it is true that suicide is a huge problem among young men especially, but the cause is not the stereotyping of the two sexes. it is in fact the culture which confuses their god-given and natural capacities and nature.
in writing. the protection of whistleblowers is important for the european union. it is a necessary step in the fight against corruption, the disclosure of conflicts of interest or any concealment of similar facts. such persons must be assisted and protected against any retaliation. it also means avoiding pressure, questioning, or even criminalization. this is true even if they are wrong. by their actions, they draw attention to the abuse of power and ultimately help to preserve the credibility of the institutions at both national and european level. the legality of the use of european funds is to be ensured primarily by the member states as recipients. of course, close cooperation with the european anti-fraud office is also necessary. in addition, they have a variety of different tools at their disposal. however, the results within individual countries are often not satisfactory
mr president, some members in this chamber think that more europe, more federalism is a solution. i think this is absolutely wrong. the political union being peddled would be a total disaster. more power to the eu institutions simply will not substitute for the lack of credibility the eu is suffering today. we reject the rise of extremism in our countries. we must fight against it, yes. today you ask for more sovereignty from people but you have not given the slightest reflection to why the eu is in crisis. my question is: what have we learned from brexit just recently? what have we learned? i do not see any reflection here. this is what people despise. this is what creates anger and opposition. this is feeding extremist movements in europe more and more. so let us emphasise the role of national parliaments over the much publicised power of the eu. moreover consider the waste of money that is more and more europe. europe needs reform, but it starts by respecting national states and their citizens. furthermore, we must honour the founding fathers of this house and of the eu by respecting the god-given values they treasured.
in writing. the union must prepare for a uk exit that will mean budgetary shortfalls, economic shocks or a shift in the political balance in decision-making. it is also an opportunity to assess where the eu is doing well, where it has reservations and shortcomings, and where it is failing. there is talk again of a 'two-speed europe' - that is, that states wishing to pursue deeper integration should not wait for those who are satisfied with the level of cooperation achieved. member states that do not join the core will gradually find themselves on the margins of the action, with little influence on political decision-making. those who would like the law to protect every human life and to respect conscientious objection are now in the minority in slovakia and in europe. and to be a minority in a democracy means to risk the majority passing laws that our conscience won't allow us to obey. if slovakia joins the core of europe, christians and pro-life activists will be under intense pressure to give up their political demands and perhaps even compromise their consciences. but weakening our relationship with europe would have catastrophic consequences for our prosperity and security. only the integration of slovakia into the eu guarantees the survival of our national community and guarantees us the freedom to persuade, vote, vote, and the possibility of civil disobedience.
..by the chairman! i propose that the resolution adopted today be renamed "false and fake statements from the workshop of gender ideology". i fully agree that mental health is a challenging subject worthy of research and scholarly debate, but it is truly sad that instead of working to actually reduce the number of people with mental illness, we voted today on a really very bad report in this chamber. to claim that transgender identities are not pathological or that sexual and reproductive rights include legal and safe access to abortion is nothing but propaganda and certainly not a legislative proposal based on scientific research. real research should become impartial and non-political. as politicians, we cannot dictate the content of medical textbooks. do we really allow ourselves to confuse our children by encouraging them to choose their own gender? after all, this is what causes some of the mental problems among young people. the real cause of mental problems is not stereotyping, or boxing in, ideas about both sexes. the problem is a culture that brings confusion to the god-given and natural gifts of life. that is why i voted against this resolution. thank you. thank you.
in writing. the situation in ukraine is unfortunately deteriorating. russia continues to shell the donbas region and the fighting continues. allegations are also emerging that russia is not abiding by the minsk agreements and is using weapons that were banned by the agreement. the european union cannot afford to let this conflict continue, especially when it is so close to the eu's borders. the situation calls for appropriate action against russia and its escalating aggression.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is important to welcome albania’s continuous progress in eu integration. i hope this trend will continue and that we will be able to set a date for opening the accession negotiations soon. we should appreciate political consensus leading to adoption of the justice reform. once implemented, it will significantly strengthen citizens’ faith in the judiciary and the rule of law. i would like to stress my full support for this reform, and to the international observation mission, which is going to oversee its implementation. albania should continue addressing the key priorities and show a credible track record for their implementation. this will make it possible to advance further in the integration process. at the same time, sustainable political dialogue is crucial for the country. therefore, i want to appeal to albanian politicians to make efforts and address the osce recommendation before the upcoming elections. the elections are an important test for a functioning democratic system and a mature political culture. these elections will be also an occasion for political parties to observe the implementation of the decriminalisation law. it is a chance for a new political culture, avoiding the nomination of people with a criminal past to public office. my thanks to colleague fleckenstein for the excellent work on this file and for a very good draft resolution.
madam president, 2016 has been a year of progress in bosnia and herzegovina, with practical steps forward on its european path. that is why this report rightfully reflects the positive achievements in the country and focuses on the work on the outstanding issues in 2017. i noted a growing interest from a number of meps in calling for electoral law reform and further decentralisation and federalism. i would like to know what exactly ‘federalism’ means. as it is, i am sorry, but for me it sounds like a call for the creation of new entities in a system which is more than complicated enough. so, let us define it. i would argue that, in our resolution, we should concentrate on the reforms ahead for 2017 and our focus should be on the acute social and economic reforms required for implementation of the reform agenda: steps such as reform of the judiciary, implementation of constitutional court decisions and guaranteeing the equality and democratic representation of all the country’s citizens.
in writing. the eu has trade agreements with dozens of countries. canada is the most advanced of these. it's one of the countries with the highest quality of life in the world. slovakia has an old trade agreement with canada that gives canadian investors a preference over our companies. the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union is the most comprehensive trade, services and investment agreement the eu has ever concluded. its implementation will bring economic growth and job creation, and trade between the two countries is expected to increase by up to eur 12 billion a year. the elimination of duties of eur 400 million on eu-origin goods and the mutual recognition of certificates of conformity for products and goods will reduce costs for european businesses and increase their competitiveness and market access. canada will allow european bidders to participate in its governmental and regional procurement processes, and will grant 140 geographical indications for food and beverages the same level of protection as in the eu. strengthened rules for the protection of investments and fairer and more transparent settlement of investment disputes will increase legal certainty for european businesses and contribute to the growth of mutual trade. the agreement is subject to ratification by the member states.
in writing. recently, meps have come under increased pressure from eu citizens over the eu-canada trade agreement. this pressure has also forced me to listen to the arguments of citizens and experts. today, as we debate ceta in the house, we have the opportunity to hear arguments from our colleagues in favour and against. i want to join the side of those who support the deal. the implementation of the agreement should increase bilateral trade by up to 12 billion a year, and should also promote economic growth and job creation. i also find it a compelling argument that goods imported from canada must meet all the rules set by the eu. another important argument is that canada will recognise more than 140 traditional and protected products produced in the eu in a specific area only. i was also convinced by the arguments of the european trade commissioner, cecilia malmström, who made it clear that the agreement with canada does not mean privatisation of public services, will not lead to lower standards for consumers, and also explained the role of arbitration courts. i expect the eu-canada agreement to be beneficial for slovakia too, not only in terms of trade, for example in the automotive sector, but also in terms of mutual exchanges of experience between our and canadian educational and scientific institutions.
for the ecr group. mr president, the cohesion funds have been a welcome aid to the eastern bloc countries for years. in addition to criticising the eu, we must not forget to appreciate the effort to reconcile the differences between europe's regions. as ecr shadow rapporteur, i appreciate the work of the rapporteur on this resolution, which seeks to find ways of improving our citizens' access to these resources. such an approach must also include the ability to reflect on problems encountered in the execution of payment programmes. the report calls on the commission to present a plan to speed up and facilitate the implementation of operational programmes. the difficulty of accessing the european funds, due to the late conclusion of contracts between the commission and the member states, complicates the situation of applicants in particular. consequently, the funds are under-utilized. one possible solution is to reduce the administrative burden on applicants. the european funds should be simpler, the programme system more transparent. electronic cohesion is a good tool, but it is not yet fully operational. i'm particularly in favour of young ambitious projects in slovakia. their development is stifled by bureaucracy, pervasive corruption. let's create such controlled conditions for them where they can work well and not have to fear corruption, then they won't have to leave their homeland for better conditions abroad. the aim of all of us involved in the legislative process for the use of the cohesion funds must be to maximise the benefits of the specific projects financed with common european money. we'll do this by simplifying everything, not complicating the lives of the people who receive these funds. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. european funds are the main investment vehicle in many eu countries, accounting for 60 to 80% of total public investment. for this reason too, i agree with the rapporteur that citizens must be informed of every innovative project that has received eu funding. i also agree with the thematic focus, because it is a targeted policy that creates new jobs, brings added value, helps backward and disadvantaged regions. i would also like to mention a specific example of support for the less-developed regions, which we are already implementing in my country, slovakia. initially, action plans were drawn up for each of the lagging districts individually and were drawn up with the involvement of mayors, mayors, entrepreneurs, educational institutions and civil society. the slovak authorities have also provided information on the implementation of the action plans. i think it is important that the competent people in the region decide what the money from the european funds and the government support is used for, how many jobs are created in the specific towns and cities, and that the people in the region are informed about such targeted support at the beginning and throughout the process. thank you. thank you.
mr president, surely no one doubts that we are witnessing a new industrial revolution. every day we read about the great advances in robotics, which can make us feel as if we're already living in the age of sci-fi movies. such advances open up incredible possibilities for mankind to improve their lives. but maybe sometimes it's just that. on the other hand, this area raises, opens up a great many questions and risks. machines are already replacing people in the work process in many cases. what a fully robotic labour market will look like in practice, no one really knows. according to the oecd, the slovak republic is the second most vulnerable economy in terms of increasing unemployment. it's also dangerous for transhumanism to become the law. human rights belong exclusively to man. attributing them to artificial intelligence is completely against the natural order of creation. i fear the consequences of such an action. the resolution does not provide an answer, but only adds to the confusion. it is necessary that all multinational companies and scientists behind the robotics take responsibility for this development and it is necessary to guarantee that there must be a human decision behind it.
in writing. the european union is at a crossroads after brexit and we need to decide which way to go. from the point of view of slovakia's interests, we cannot accept any variant that envisages a two-speed europe, or even one that envisages the federalisation of the european union. none of the options presented are final. the european union should in future focus on a positive agenda that delivers concrete results for citizens and businesses. the energy union and the digital single market are examples. the integration of the common market should also be deepened and the euro area compliance mechanism strengthened. europe also needs to jointly address contemporary challenges such as mass migration, security risks arising from terrorism and russian expansionism, and the threat of global trade wars. to do this, we need effective and efficient instruments in the form of agencies such as the european border and coast guard and, of course, consensus on foreign and trade policy. on the contrary, the european commission and parliament should leave the field of cultural and ethical issues and the empty statements and resolutions on various subsidiary issues entirely. personally, i'm leaning towards a combination of options one and four. it opens up the possibility of a broad, societal discussion that we urgently need. setting priorities correctly and adhering to them can jump-start the european union and reduce internal frictions between individual member states.
in writing. the lisbon treaty enshrines the protection of children's rights as one of the tasks of the european union, both internally (within the eu) and in relation to third countries. in recent times, unfortunately, thousands of children from third countries have been migrating to europe each year, unaccompanied by their parents or legal guardians. the reasons for this are many, but some are refugees, fleeing war, armed conflict, persecution, or discrimination in their country of origin. but there are many children who are fleeing poverty and looking for a better life and work in europe. what i personally find most sad is that many of these children are frequent targets of human trafficking, forced labor, and exploitation. even if we forget the motives behind the journey of these migrant children, i regret to say that these children are extremely vulnerable and vulnerable to becoming victims of prostitution, pornography abuse, slave labor, drug trafficking and other forms of crime. i consider the disappearance of migrant children, who are the most vulnerable among migrants, to be a particularly alarming problem, because in the lives they have found themselves in, they are as if invisible and without a voice of their own.
for the ecr group. commissioner, i often meet people in slovakia who might not be interested in today's debate on gender disadvantage, but who are nevertheless affected by it in a very real and practical way. these are people in what i think are some of the most demanding jobs. these include nurses, teachers, professional and nonprofessional caregivers. i don't think it's our job to judge how or why they chose their profession, but if i can say something in this short space, let me speak from personal experience. i know many stories where it's been my own experience that has shown fathers, husbands, that striving for better financial conditions, affordable and quality care for children, the elderly and the disabled is the best investment in a happy society in the future. i would like to see gender pay inequality not remain a 'women's issue'. we need fathers, husbands, partners, mps and male politicians who will also fight for better conditions with us.
no one in this parliament or in the public sphere is advocating for a pay gap between men and women doing the same work or work of equal value. it is certainly good news, and it deserves to be talked about, even if repeatedly. the worse news is that, although this parliament is adopting more and more resolutions seeking to reduce the unjustified pay gap between men and women, for 11 years now the political will to amend the 2006 directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation has not been found. this is frustrating not only for me as a member of parliament who is involved in this issue, but especially for women and mothers who are affected by pay discrimination and do not have effective tools to defend themselves against it. this will not change until we resolve the question of the future of the eu, which we discussed at the beginning of this meeting. because what measures we take to tackle the unjustified gender pay gap, and whether we take them at all, depends on which of the juncker scenarios we choose.
(speaker not heard because the microphone is not on) ... economic freedom is the main advantage because citizens believe in the project of european cooperation. but they will only feel european if they are in fact and truly equal citizens. but today we are witnessing the emergence of two categories of citizens. we are talking about the end of schengen, we are talking about different working conditions, we are talking about different quality of food. then we have to ask ourselves whether we are still talking about the european union. in the united kingdom, over 100,000 slovaks are living in insecurity today. eastern european workers have always been a positive contribution to the countries of old europe, contributing over five billion euros/pounds to the uk's public budget annually. austria also wants to limit child benefits to slovak workers, especially to the 20,000 nurses. they work honestly and pay their taxes in austria. low wages in slovakia have forced slovak fathers and mothers to seek work abroad so that their children have a better prospect. the free movement of persons has not harmed the member states, but helped them. i want to call on the european commission to defend the interests of all eu citizens, and on the leaders of the member states to seek a sensible agreement and compromise.
in writing. the existing mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy has so far proved ineffective. its objective is to check that such agreements comply with the european union's energy legislation and priorities. the result is to strengthen the internal market and the energy security of the eu and its member states. on paper, it looks good, practically in line with the energy union strategy. however, the actual effect is negligible at present. the problem is that the control is carried out ex post, i.e. only after any agreements have been concluded. for example, countries that are primarily dependent on one supplier of fossil fuels may be pushed into various disadvantageous concessions. but once the deal is done, it's too late to fix it. as many as 17 intergovernmental agreements concluded were identified as problematic. but entering them after signing was pointless. moreover, in many cases, investment projects specifically related to them have also started to be implemented. given the eu's high dependence on fossil fuel imports from third countries, rather than a bureaucratically complex comprehensive assessment, it would suffice to say to what extent these intergovernmental agreements contribute to the diversification of resources and transport routes. in practical terms, this should be done before such agreements are concluded. but this is not up to the eu, it is up to the representatives of the individual member states.
mr. president, i'd like to add a few specifics to the debate. i believe that the european commission should continue to evaluate the functioning of the pharmaceutical system. the data collected can help ensure sustainable health systems and the development of innovative medicines. i think that there is a particular need to intensify european cooperation, for example on the question of prices, the fight against counterfeit medicines and the exchange of information. i don't agree with the argument that the economic crisis or the negative effects of austerity policies are the cause of the state of health care systems. it's a one-sided approach. despite the economic crisis, healthcare in the central european member states is still worse than in the west. getting up to speed takes time, but we must take every measure to avoid making the recovery and health of patients dependent on which country we live in. i am referring here to the parallel trade in medicines, which is a problem in our countries and leads to shortages of medicines. the eu institutions and the member states must also act to prevent this, because quality medicine at affordable prices is not a luxury. it is also very important that member states share information, expertise and best practices with each other in order to prevent over-prescription of medicinal products and to ensure that generic products reach the market. (the intervener agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. (speaker not heard well at the beginning because microphone is not on)... i'll answer... in slovak so you can hear it better. i agree with you to a certain extent. but i think we have a need in eastern europe, and we can't solve it with just some statements. i think that cooperation between the member states and the european institutions is necessary and i am convinced that the role or role of the european commission is irreplaceable in this area too.
the provision of effective, safe and affordable medicines is primarily the responsibility and role of the member states. however, at eu level, legislative, scientific and research information, economic and financial mechanisms need to be promoted to help achieve this goal. in particular, it is necessary to ensure the development and implementation of effective policies and to support the development of research and production of new medicines in eu countries. policies should be considered to prevent and hinder the harmful outsourcing of these capacities from outside the eu, with all its negative consequences. the market must respond more to the real and defined health needs of the population and not be governed by, for example, medically dubious, fashionable or even harmful lifestyle requirements. attention should also be paid to medicines for rare diseases and medicines for diseases ... medicines for diseases that may be considered neglected in the eu. the task also remains to ensure that the public is protected from substandard or fraudulent medicines entering the eu. equally important is the protection of the population from medically unjustified or outright irrational treatments and products of the so-called alternative medicine circle. the appropriate involvement of the patient himself is important, who must become the subject and co-creator of the necessary changes.
mr president, i would like to thank the european commission, particularly vice-president timmermans and commissioner jourova for their initiative in cooperating. on the basis of our dialogue, the european commission launched last november a pilot project, the justice programme: europe of diversities for multilingual and multicultural societies in the eu. this week i received news that this call inspired civil society organisations in my country, the slovak republic, to submit a project called better united in europe. this is a good example of the positive response to the idea of european commission experts in the society of a member state. i hope that other good projects will be submitted from other countries, and i also hope that after the successful evaluation of the pilot project, we will continue to cooperate on the same principles.
i would like to start by praising the work of the rapporteur, as her report gives a holistic view of the contribution of the creative europe programme. culture, the creative industries, these are not just sectors that bring us good feelings, good experiences, but they actually have economic significance as well. in today's divided europe, with growing euroscepticism, it is culture, history and common values that bind european countries firmly and stably. the creative europe programme financially supports artists and cultural professionals, but also the translation of books, the film industry, creates favourable conditions for the mobility of artists and artworks and raises cultural awareness. i consider the tradition of supporting european cities of culture to be a very successful project. the title of košice - city of culture in 2013 has brought to my city, košice, in addition to a number of cultural events, the creation of new jobs and the largest influx of tourists in history, which has a significant economic contribution and promotion for the city and the state.
the europe for citizens programme is unique in that it truly gives citizens the opportunity to engage personally in learning about the history and present of the eu and its member states in a variety of fields. i had a very good personal experience when the small town of medzev in eastern slovakia, as a member of the charter of european rural municipalities, applied for a grant and, under the europe for citizens programme, was the host town for 270 guests from all over europe for five days. meeting a dane, a swede, a portuguese or a slovene in a small space at the same time was a grateful opportunity for the local people to exchange experiences, to become familiar with cultural and sporting traditions, but above all it was an opportunity for friendships that last for years. the conference theme 'how the 2004 eu enlargement affected citizens in small rural communities in europe' also provided further insights not only to the participants and hosts of the meeting, but also to me personally as an mep and to the other guests present. i believe that we will give the europe for citizens programme a green future by increasing the budget.
i have already indicated my support for this report in the debate. however, i cannot help but point out here the problem of re-export, which in some member states leads to a shortage of medicines for domestic patients. the combination of the single market and the different prices of medicines, which are based on the financial capabilities of each country's health insurance system, often makes it advantageous for distribution companies to buy a medicinal product in one member state and sell it in another. fortunately, the treaties provide for an exception to the prohibition of restrictive agreements. however, it is for the court to decide how it interprets it in relation to measures on the medicinal products market. i am aware that the solidarity systems of the public health insurance vary in the member states. however, i cannot help feeling that this problem would require a systemic solution.
mr president, i am very much concerned about equality between women and men and i regret that this report is further proof that a large number of colleagues in this parliament see the european treaties as a mission with unicorns. they only take what they like from them. and just like people who never reach for a salmon sandwich, our zealous progressives have an allergic reaction to the principle of subsidiarity. article 168 (7) of the treaty states that the union's action shall respect the responsibility of the member states for defining their health policy, for organising and providing health services and health care. nevertheless, the report presented in paragraph 46 calls on all member states to guarantee women easy access to a wide range of sexual and reproductive health services, including contraception and abortion. in paragraph 47, it calls on eu countries to ensure that conscientious objection clauses do not prevent patients from accessing legal medical health care. ladies and gentlemen, let me repeat: responsibility for defining health policy, organising and delivering health services and healthcare lies with the member states, not the european union. and it is not the european parliament but national parliaments that are responsible for making laws in the member states in this area. your desire to impose your worldview at any cost, ignoring treaties and laws, is one of the reasons for people's growing dissatisfaction with the way european integration is being carried out. you too bear some responsibility for the rise of euroscepticism, which you are so fond of speaking out against.
mr president, when we talk about equality between men and women, i cannot help mentioning one very important issue, namely the differences between men and women in the payment of pensions. this gap, which in some countries reaches 40 percent, is due not only to women's lower employment but also to their lower pay and the length of time they take on caregiving responsibilities for other family members. i know that in this context, many members are reluctant to look at unconventional, flexible working hours. but i personally do not agree with that view. i think that flexible working, for example in the form of part-time work, can be very helpful for parents of young children who want to better organise their own work-life balance. i would be glad if we could make the case for our countries to be able to make better use of the opportunities offered by the flexibility of work organisation, while at the same time not reducing the retirement age of women. i think the european parliament, the european commission is a very good forum to get more information about good practice in this area.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i would like to express my dismay at some of the passages in the urtasun report. for example, it states that the conscientious objection clause is overused. what does that mean, please? and so women are denied access to basic health care. secondly, let me make it clear that this report is clouded by vague terminology. why does the term "primary health care" include abortion, please? i strongly disagree with the idea of performing abortions as a form of primary health care because we are confusing the public. second, do we really want to invoke the right to conscientious objection by a doctor? don't be mad, what does that mean? i believe that doctors and staff should have a legal basis for conscientious objection when it comes to performing an abortion. secondly, there are some points where it is said that in society and in politics there are movements that oppose the rights of women and other persons, such as lgbt, and emphasize traditional roles. well, why not, please? there are millions of people out there who think it's right. because traditional roles don't mean we have to run away from our kids and not take care of our families. yes, there are millions of people who want to do that. you have to respect that.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. following the recent us elections, a series of articles have emerged warning of the risks to the democratic process posed by technological advances in big data processing. the critical elements of this threat are the mass proliferation of smartphones and the growth of people's engagement on social networks on the internet. data shared via social networks on the internet make it possible to create increasingly accurate personality profiles of individual citizens. the result is a blurring of the line between the provision of information and targeted manipulative propaganda. it is therefore high time to talk about these risks and also to look for legislative instruments that would increase the protection of european citizens from both virtual and real threats.
mr. chairman, like all my colleagues, i have received hundreds of e-mails in the last two weeks from citizens asking me to support a ban on rabbit cages. i am very pleased to see such an interest in the work of this parliament. but at the same time, i can't help feeling sad. we have no problem setting european standards for the conditions in which rabbits, chickens or horses live, but when it comes to the conditions in which people live, suddenly there is silence. i would like to believe that there will come a time when the mailboxes of members of the european parliament will be flooded with requests for the introduction of minimum standards for the living conditions of citizens of the european union. i know we have to take care of the animals' welfare, but we should care more about the people.
mr president, after brexit the european union will also face new challenges from the financial side, as it is estimated that the revenues of the european budget may fall to as low as 15%. i think it is high time that we first of all address the question of own resources. secondly, they improved the payment discipline of the member states and thirdly, they also analysed the european budget, where there is room for reducing consumption expenditure but certainly not for reducing investment for the future. i also believe that we should maintain cohesion policy, because cohesion means cohesion, and that is what we need most now. i think we should focus on areas where we can achieve the best outcomes for our citizens, whether it is digitalisation, energy or the capital union. we should also not give up on the question of enlargement of the union, because every enlargement has been successful so far and has meant strengthening economically, culturally, politically, and i believe that this will...
mr president, commissioner, if the european union continues as it is, voters will become increasingly frustrated by the discrepancy between their expectations and the eu's real capabilities. however, the fault lies not only with the member states and their governments, which like to boast of the successes of european policies but blame brussels for the difficulties and decisions taken jointly. those who do not respect the principle of subsidiarity and the division of powers, or the will of the citizens of the member states, are also to blame. the formal implementation of a multi-speed europe could perhaps solve these problems. however, it is important that both parameters of enhanced cooperation be maintained. voluntary participation and the obligation to accept any state that expresses an interest in participating. otherwise, the new member states risk becoming a buffer again between the west and russia.
for the ecr group. mr president the commission clearly believes that a terrorist who wants to commit an attack first gets a gun permit and then legally acquires a weapon. this is, of course, naive, and this idea is that trucks, axes, machetes should be banned, because terrorists use these tools to carry out their terrorist attacks. restricting legal weapons because terrorists are carrying out attacks with illegal weapons is wrong and serves only to make the commission even more annoying to the people of europe. as if that wasn't enough. as if a large part of the european population is not already fed up with these regulations and restrictions, you just go on and on. you keep going on and on until we're all blown away. people don't want so many restrictions from you that you think you know better than people should live.
the question asked by the blue card. mrs. charanz, you mentioned deactivating the weapons. in this context, i would like to ask you whether you do not think that, after the last revision of the firearms directive was adopted in 2007 and the commission was supposed to issue a deactivation order on weapons and this only happened seven years after the paris attacks, is this not a failure on the part of the commission? shouldn't the commission first correct its own mistakes before it goes around restricting decent people.
in writing. following the terrorist attacks in paris in january 2015, the home affairs ministers expressed their countries' commitment to reduce illicit firearms transfers across europe, to strengthen mutual cooperation against the threat of crime, to improve the exchange of intelligence and to ensure the full use of the eu's the european union is also committed to the fight against terrorism, and the eu is committed to the fight against terrorism. the proposal to amend the european parliament and council directive on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons seeks to strike a balance between the right to own weapons and the inherent need to control ownership. the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence of the violence the eu has a long tradition of supporting the fight against terrorism, and the eu is committed to supporting the fight against terrorism in all its forms. in the case of unauthorised use of firearms, the member states shall ensure that the law is applied in accordance with the law. the origin and ownership of the firearm must be traceable. and rightly so, they need not fear stricter controls.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, yes, women must have good quality health care – especially when it concerns the unique contribution to our society of having babies. so my opinion is, why would anyone – especially those calling themselves feminists – complain that a global abortion industry is losing some of its funding? why are eu member states wanting to step up and fund a practice that harms women and babies? that is genocidal, economically disastrous and anti-democratic, anti-feminist and anti-woman. and if someone has a different opinion, if president trump decided on a different approach, it would have to be respected. there are reasons. and also there are reasons which come from reverence: reverence to life, reverence to dignity of life, reverence to the right to be born and to live, and reverence to those who cannot speak for themselves – for those who are unborn yet and cannot speak for themselves. so i strongly disagree with the commission’s intent to spend millions to export this barbarism to developing nations. abortion has no healthcare benefits. there are none. and it cannot be called health care. abortion is not a health initiative, as commissioner stylianides has named it, because it cannot be called a basic health care. all of those valuable resources should be immediately redirected to provide real and maternal care to women so that we can benefit from the next generation and not mourn them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not know if i will manage two questions in 15 seconds; probably you need to answer in 30 seconds. of course i did speak to a lady who was in a difficult situation. what i condemned on this industry is that it is a mixed thing; all, all, all, all reasons into one. let us help children to be aborted, let us fund it. but the other side does not speak about the very different approach which admires life. this is what i am missing on this pro-life and pro-choice debate. a lady does not kill her own body, cannot decide about her own body, because it is not her body. if she kills her body, she dies. after abortion a baby dies, not a lady.
mr president, i would just like to mention that, according to parliament’s rules, i was named by mrs in ‘t veld and mrs reintke by name and i had the right to react.
madam president, i did not answer the question i was given because i objected to the fact that i was named by mrs in 't veld and mrs reintke. i was named because of the content of the debate, so i feel that i have the right to answer. please explain your objection to me speaking about the content of this debate. mrs in 't veld did not attack me. she asked me a real question about this debate, as did mrs reintke. so i do not feel attacked, but challenged by the question and they named me by name.
so what i want to say should be in the minutes?
in writing. europe is at a crossroads and we must decide how to move forward. reform of the way the european union works is not possible without the involvement of the general public, and i therefore welcome the european commission's offer of five possible scenarios for our common future. in deciding on its final form, we must always have citizens and the common good at the forefront of our minds. the slovak authorities have not provided any evidence that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. this model would deepen existing differences and introduce new barriers to the internal market. a scenario that envisages de facto federalisation would also bring about joint decision-making in areas falling within the exclusive competence of the member states. for example, family policy, culture and education. we need an organization that allows us to focus on the issues that bring concrete results to our people and our companies. it's mainly digitalization, energy and security. we have to digitize, especially, because other parts of the world are catching up with us. if we miss this train, the next one won't go. i see all five scenarios as a stimulus for discussion on where we want to see slovakia and europe in five years' time or in forty years' time when we celebrate the centenary of the treaties of rome. whether any of them or a combination of them is fulfilled, europe will only be strong if it is cohesive.
in writing. almost a year ago, brussels airport and metro were hit by a terrible terrorist attack. in response to the situation, the epp has set 10 priorities. this package of measures contains all the tools that will allow us to prevent similar attacks in the future. six of the priorities have already been achieved, such as the launch of the passenger register and the reinforcement of the protection of the eu's external borders, the introduction of measures to prevent the financing of terrorism, and a new strategy to counter radicalisation and support victims of terrorism. the work continues, and the goal is a secure europe, where citizens can live freely and without fear. i am confident that we will be able to adopt the other four priorities with similar speed and consensus.
madam president, it took years to complete the new regulation on european political parties. all stakeholders had many opportunities to engage in the process, including the largest parties. now, even before the new rules are fully implemented, the large parties have decided that they want to change these new rules their way, without the mutual engagement of any other stakeholders in the report on the letter that the former oral question refers to. the new rules which have already been introduced measured new barriers for european parties, and that is good. this debate is an attempt to shut out smaller and new parties, which is against the spirit of the treaty and the new regulation. both large and small parties have abused funding, so higher barriers are no solution to that. the eu does not need less political involvement with the people, but more. this political involvement cannot be monopolised and covered by the large parties alone. it is necessary to first implement the new rules and then have the evaluation as already scheduled.
mr president, we are on the verge of a new era in europe and defence and security. what europe needs is a closer integration in intelligence and law enforcement. how can we protect europeans – say, from a major terrorist attack – when our national security services do not share information with each other? how can we protect european institutions and values from russia’s hybrid warfare if each member state works on the basis of its own intelligence? but it also concerns any future defence union. how can we plan a common military or civilian mission if there is no shared assessment of the situation on the ground? europe needs its own intelligence agency. this is no longer a luxury or some euro-federalist dream. if you understand the problems, you know it is a strategic necessity, not a new bureaucracy. it is precondition for european strategic autonomy.
madam president, first, my highest appreciation goes to the rapporteur charles tannock for having shown once again his devotion to this file, which resulted in a very good, objective and balanced draft resolution. looking back at the last 12 months, montenegro remains clearly the frontrunner in the integration process in the region, which enjoys the continuous and high support of its citizens. for this, our partners in montenegro deserve our further backing in keeping up the momentum and continuing with the reforms, notably in the domain of the rule of law, judiciary reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and improving the media environment. yet these advances are overshadowed by the current boycott of the parliament which stalls the reform work. as the opposition is currently out of the parliament, i appreciate the prime minister’s gesture in extending a hand to the opposition, and hope that regular parliamentary work will resume soon. with regard to the events around the october 2016 elections, investigation needs to take place in accordance with montenegrin law and international standards. the outstanding issues relating to the election should be addressed with a special focus on the osce final report recommendations which should act as a guideline.
mr president, crimea has now been occupied by russia for three years. unfortunately, many of our expectations have been confirmed. crimea is a concern to humanitarian and human rights organisations, civil liberties and freedoms have been curtailed, repressions against ethnic crimean tatars and ukrainians have been growing, forced imposition of russian citizenship has become systematic, and the number of political prisoners is on the rise. we need to be concerned. crimea is europe’s traumatic spot. we need to be concerned about the ongoing situation there, about russia’s responsibility for abuse of human rights in crimea and, not least, about political prisoners being placed in russian penal colonies because of their denial of the occupation. we should make sure that crimea will not become a black hole in europe which will traumatise generations to come.
for the ecr group commissioner, let me begin by thanking you for this initiative, which i believe will help thousands of young people to get involved in volunteering projects or to find a traineeship or a job. as you said when you launched this initiative, and as you have now confirmed, commissioner, the project also aims to reach out to young people from disadvantaged groups, including young people with disabilities. however, as i have already been informed, the website itself, where candidates can register, is not accessible in sign language for the deaf or translated into an easy-to-read style for people with mental disabilities, and it is clear that barrier-free access must be ensured at all levels, not only within the projects but also at the registration of participants themselves. the commission must also ensure that an effective campaign is carried out to make the targeted communities aware of all the options. the programme has already enrolled - that said - more than 26 000 young people who are waiting for an offer of a traineeship, apprenticeship, job or volunteer activity. this number will grow and it is essential that the funding of the whole programme is also completed as soon as possible without jeopardising already well-functioning programmes such as erasmus plus or the european voluntary service. i believe that the commission is already working with the third sector, in particular with representatives of voluntary centres with direct experience in the field, in the preparation of its legislative proposal. this is another way of ensuring that volunteering retains its character and is not abused by employers in place of paid work.
mr commissioner, i listened very carefully to what you said at the beginning of the debate and i must say that i was disappointed. it's one thing that the brazilian regulatory authorities have failed, but we have a huge hole in the regulatory system here in the european union. how could there be so much spoiled meat distributed across the eu if controls worked? in slovakia, 21 tonnes of meat containing salmonella and kept in salt for two years was withdrawn from distribution in recent days. if we hadn't, perhaps such meat would be eaten by children in schools, by patients in hospitals, by social services, and by ordinary customers in restaurants. there would be 210,000 consumers; 210,000 people would be at risk. commissioner, please tell us what we have to say to our citizens who are losing their faith in the eu because of such incidents and are already expanding the ranks of the eurosceptics. what guarantees can you give to european citizens that unfair trading practices in the food supply chain will not be repeated? tell me, when will you identify the guilty and when and how will he be punished?
commissioner, 145 000 tonnes of meat have been imported from brazil. infected meat which is infected with salmonella, treated with carcinogens and distributed in the european union. in our small slovakia alone, 21 tons of meat have already been distributed and they were simply already in food establishments, schools and hospitals. i ask you, commissioner, how is it possible that the european inspectors, our hygienists, the central authorities, microbiologists, the food chambers have not noticed that we are receiving contaminated meat from brazil? did we have to find out that brazil itself discovered this terrible scandal when brazilian inspectors were bribed by cartels and turned a blind eye to the quality of the meat? i ask you, commissioner, what will you do to prevent this from happening again?
the emissions scandals were the result of insufficient control. both the commission and the member states must realise that a free market does not mean a waiver of responsibility for the exercise of control. if the union is to protect consumers' rights and ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment, control mechanisms must be an obligatory part of every policy, legislation and act. the control must be preventive and cannot be the result of negative consequences.
for the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the rapporteur, dan dalton, and the other shadow rapporteurs for a really great piece of work, for their ability to communicate, to be open and above all to find the common solutions that we really need. i am glad that we have really found these solutions in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. it is clear to everyone that we need new legislation to approve new vehicles. it is clear to all that 'diesel gate' cannot happen again and our citizens cannot be deceived. at the same time, we need to protect our environment better, but also think about the development of new technologies and about jobs in the european union. this final form of new legislation has been debated in our committee for over a year. the result is a change in methodology, new competences, but also the interaction of the european level and the national states. full-scale testing is introduced, the commission's powers are strengthened and a uniform procedure and interpretation of the rules are ensured throughout the union. the events of the past year have shown that this is indeed very, very necessary. i'm sure we don't need new institutions, but we do need rapid, fundamental change that works. we do not need new costs, but we need clear and enforceable rules. we do not need divided member states, but we need the same rules for our entire european single market. i am pleased that the european commission itself is not proposing new institutions, but is proposing a change in the way things work, as is our committee. the outcome of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is a really good proposal and i believe it will be supported by everyone who cares about real change and protecting the interests of our citizens.
(speaker not heard because the microphone is not on) i 'm not . ..good news for women facing problems in rural areas. thank you to mrs petir and the reporters who did a good job on it. rural communities really show us the power of families working together and using their entrepreneurial skills to build their own businesses, often passed down from generation to generation, which could not have been possible without the unique, irreplaceable input and contribution of wives, mothers and daughters. but their good and hard work is often overlooked, so i am glad that this report can focus on the specific needs of these women. i could not, however, vote in favour of this report for a number of reasons. it again calls for the signing and ratification of the controversial istanbul convention. this convention is legally flawed, it promotes gender confusion, and this should anger anyone who wants to highlight the true femininity of women. the european union must find a better instrument to protect women from violence and reject the istanbul convention, rather than pressing for its overall adoption without all member states agreeing to it, as 22 have not ratified it.
i really think that mrs rodriguez's and mrs petir's report on rural women is of very high quality. it contains many good, concrete proposals that would undoubtedly improve the situation of women living in rural areas. unfortunately, i had to abstain on the final vote. the report falsely quotes the treaties and the european charter, and at the same time the committee has inserted into the text two requirements which i find unacceptable: that the member states accede to the istanbul convention and that the commission prepare a proposal for a directive on violence against women. i find violence against women intolerable. however, the adoption of the istanbul convention, which introduces a senseless gender ideology, is entirely within the competence of the member states. and the eu does not need a new directive, it is important that member states respect the european treaties and their own laws.
in writing the second review of the programme, currently underway, is complicated by the slow adoption of reforms and by the dispute between greece, european creditors and the international monetary fund (imf). the eu/imf heads of mission were due to arrive in athens to finalize the details of the agreement ahead of the finance ministers' meeting scheduled for the end of march 2017. however, new disagreements between greece and the imf over pension and labour reforms have blocked this agreement. the commission has announced that a new date for the return of the mission to athens has not been set. the talks are continuing through teleconferencing. the conclusion of the second review is necessary for greece to receive further support from the rescue programme. without it, he won't be able to cover the large loan payment scheduled for july. the failure to conclude a second evaluation of the greek programme raises fears of a return to the greek crisis.
commissioner, there are currently more than 500 000 medical devices and in vitro diagnostic devices on the european market. rapid development has made these devices more sophisticated, but current regulation is not keeping pace with scientific progress. in view of the numerous scandals where diagnostic devices have given patients incorrect results, i am convinced of the need to adapt legislation to the real situation and to tighten the rules with the aim of eliminating cases of misdiagnosis. i agree with the wording of the proposal for a new regulation which aims to strengthen the pre-market and post-market surveillance process for in vitro diagnostic devices and the traceability of devices throughout the supply chain, and in addition to this support for research and innovation, we must keep in mind patient safety, the protection of life and health, which is our primary and paramount objective. the implementation of the new legislative framework must be duly monitored by the european commission, in particular in the area of genetic counselling, as we requested in our parliamentary position. neither the patient nor the consumer should be exposed to misleading information, or misinterpretation of results or interpretations in a sensitive area such as health.
madam president, the uk treasury figures say that over the next five years, the uk treasury will lose over 122 billion euros. the latest analysis shows that half a million jobs will be lost in the next few years because of brexit. barclays bank has confirmed that the relocation of banking activities outside the uk is necessary. that doesn't sound very optimistic. i would like to say to the united kingdom: we are suffering as much as those of you who voted to remain in the eu. but we respect the will of the majority. we're starting to look for a new future together. this period of uncertainty may last for more than two years. if you conclude that living outside the eu will seriously damage your future, do not hesitate to return. after all, wise politicians will not let their own citizens be harmed.
in writing the withdrawal agreement, as well as the individual transitional measures, are scheduled to enter into force before the 2019 european parliament elections. until then, the united kingdom has all the rights, benefits and obligations of a full member state. this is fully applicable to its financial commitments. the administrative handling of the uk's withdrawal from the eu will not be a simple process. it's a big unknown. but it is important to set priorities. these must be, in particular, the security and stability of the legal position of european citizens living in britain, as well as that of british citizens in the territory of the eu countries. the departure of one member state can be an incentive to adapt the functioning of the european union in such a way that no other member state wants to leave. brexit is primarily the result of the populism and gamble of former prime minister cameron, who was willing to sacrifice decades of cooperation for a one-off election victory. the leaders of the nations should learn from this. they cannot continue to agree on something first and then, if it is unpopular, present it at home as the fault of the european union and the officials in brussels.
mr president, we are all aware of the enormous rise of populism and hatred in our countries. i appeal first of all to the responsibility of us, all politicians. the absence of critical thinking is evident in all spheres of society, and even politicians are not immune to it. many have lost the ability to respond in a civilized and democratic way to their opponents. today, any critic who expresses an opinion that goes against the majority is immediately labeled an extremist. so as politicians, we have to be careful about using that term, and really only use it for those who deny the truth or historical facts. we are celebrating 60 years since the signing of the founding treaties of rome, but what did they mean for europe? first of all, peace and cooperation between countries that have been fighting each other for years. i consider it an outrage if someone describes the murder of jews, roma and others in concentration camps as only an uncertain historical fact. today, the presentation of false, hateful, and racist views is being confused with the search for truth and freedom of speech. if we do not act wisely and decisively, what our european fathers built will be in ruins. so i wish and pray that politicians are not afraid to face criticism, but that they are pushed forward in finding real solutions to the crisis we have here.
madam president, we see how the social and digital media are becoming a powerful tool for propaganda, populism and hate speech. as such, it is nothing new, therefore we should not be tempted to limit the freedom of speech. rather we must recognise the signs early and act responsibly but decisively to counter them. it is our common challenge. we can see that this information stems from a weak institutional and democratic environment, and simultaneously feeds into preserving the same defined milieu. this phenomenon appears inside the eu but also outside our borders. i am observing its alarming prevalence in ukraine, in belarus but also in the western balkans. unfortunately, it became a political tool of influence used by authoritarian regimes and governments. various disinformation techniques are used to systematically undermine the values and policies which the eu strives to defend in these countries. we experience here campaigns and increased activities during elections with the aim to influence the result. these should be our last wake-up calls. we should invest more attention and resources in resilience of the media environment and information literacy in the eu, but also in our partner countries of the neighbourhood and our future members.
in writing on wednesday afternoon, there was a plenary debate on hate speech, populism and fake news. i think it is good and important that meps from all political groups discuss these issues, because populism and lies, combined with new technologies and services such as the internet, social networks or the ability to collect and analyse large amounts of information about everyone who uses the internet, can under certain circumstances pose a threat to democracy and freedom. on the other hand, we must not allow the line to blur between suppressing hate speech and restricting freedom of thought, conscience, and religion. some of these problems, which citizens in all member states face today, can be solved by law, but by no means all of them. for example, it turns out that countries with good education are much more resilient to fake news and misinformation. but the quality of education cannot change from day to day, or from year to year. parliament will not adopt any resolution on this subject. however, the speeches of the members from the various political groups will be an interesting signal as to whether there is a consensus in the responses to these issues or whether we are still only at the stage of analysing the problems and proposing solutions, some of which are complementary, while others are competing with each other.
madam president, setting maximum roaming charges is a classic form of price regulation which is unnecessary, harmful and should never have been introduced. i am all the more surprised that the creation of this regulation is justified by the need to ensure that the market functions, whereas it is this regulation that distorts the functioning of the market. in fact, operators pass on their costs to domestic users, who will see the price fall more slowly or not at all. roaming ceilings sound flattering, of course, but in reality they harm people who travel less, such as pensioners, and help people who travel more, such as meps. these are the unintended consequences, and of course, this regulation then requires further and further additions and complications, and that's how we complicate the world here, and then wonder why we live in a world that is over-regulated. it is hoped that in five years' time this regulation will be over.
madam president, i would like to offer my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for his good work. we have been dealing with the political crisis in macedonia for the past two years. i would really like to see the light at the end of the tunnel, yet democracy in macedonia is still politically paralysed and the victims are the citizens of the country and hence the integration process itself. let me say this clearly: it is in our utmost interest to see a strong and democratic macedonia coming onto the eu path. we do appreciate the positive role that the country has played and can play in the region, yet democratic development and political stability are the key pillars on which it needs to be built. i am concerned at the deepening of the political crisis. like many others, i would also like to call on the president of the country to fulfil his responsibility in the process of forming a new government composed of political parties with a real majority in the parliament. in addition, the parliament should itself start working according to the normal procedures.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i will focus on one question, and that is global abortion funding. the de-funding of the un population fund is a very positive outcome from the united nations commission on the status of women. i am happy that the us is no longer funding forced abortion and involuntary sterilisation in china. the blood of chinese women and babies will no longer be on their hands. this does not deny anyone maternal health care, as abortion-choice stakeholders in this house claim. rather, it protects women from suffering the horrific ordeal of having their young baby torn limb from limb from the womb. these barbaric acts should cause an outcry, but not against me as the messenger, but against anyone cruel enough to support this gendercide. feminists should be particularly outraged, as it is baby girls who are more often killed in the womb than boys. this is cruel, illegal discrimination. let me be clear, abortion is not health care. there are no medical benefits. the eu should stay out of women’s uteruses.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. on 8 april, we celebrated international roma day, and in this context, i - together with the majority of the political groups - and several colleagues put a question to the commission and the council. the eu framework for national roma integration strategies adopted in 2011 was very timely and i think i speak for many when i say that we had high hopes for it. for me, as a politician representing the hungarian minority in slovakia, this framework is also important because it gives me hope that it can serve as a model for the creation of a universal framework for the protection of national minorities in the near future. i am convinced that the protection of european values is important in a changing world like the one we live in, and that the protection of indigenous minorities must be an important element of this framework. this includes paying attention to roma communities and taking steps to solve their problems. let me also draw the attention of the honourable members of the european commission to two priorities. the first is the existence of so-called roma telephones, roma settlements, in three eu countries where this is a serious problem. in my country, in the eastern part of slovakia, there are several such settlements where roma live in conditions unworthy of european citizens. but there are settlements like this in romania, and bulgaria, too. i was deputy prime minister of slovakia for eight years, we tried to take steps to count these settlements, and i think that should be continued, perhaps by creating a european roma fund. the second priority should be to support education and training programmes. i wish the commission every success in this and i believe i can promise the support of all of us.
madam president, since 2004, when i became a member of the european parliament, our political group has been very closely involved in the roma issue. we have even had and have working groups set up that not only prepare missions to the countries where we meet the roma community, but also prepare concrete initiatives and suggestions on how we can help the roma community. i myself, as a member of the national parliament, have been in very close contact with the roma community and i must say that over the years we have managed to do a good job so that we are not only talking about the weaker places on the day we celebrate roma day. but the truth is, and this is the commission's job, that a lot of money has been spent to integrate the roma population and to educate roma children. and so my question to you, commissioner, is: how does the commission check how these funds have been spent, because in many cases it has been shown that these funds have been misappropriated in some way or have not been spent for the purpose for which they were intended?
madam president, the roma are one of the most numerous and still heterogeneous minorities in europe, and have been for many centuries. it is with immense shame that i have to say that many roma still live in enclaves in slovakia, in the 21st century, without access to drinking water, electricity or asphalt roads. they live in absolute poverty with no possibility of any change. eurofunds that were supposed to help the roma are subject to corruption or inefficient use, which we are witnessing again in slovakia, and this only contributes to greater segregation. it is necessary today to recall such historical facts as the roman holocaust. but it's equally important today to help the roma, and in two ways -- at least that's how i see it: first, to build preschools where children can learn habits and skills that their parents didn't teach them. and also to help the roma to re-qualify for the craft or automotive workers that are in short supply. work and a fair wage will ensure a more dignified life for them and restore the hope that many of them have already lost. but i would also like to say, say it out loud and thank all the roma who have achieved so much and we can't say much about it: that they are people who move in the scientific field, that they are doctors, that they are teachers, that they are university professors. in slovakia, we have the first roma in the parliament who has served as a member of the national council. so thank you to everyone who's tried and achieved something.
international roma day is a good opportunity for all of us to remember that roma have been an integral part of european countries for centuries. i am pleased that each year on 8 april we commemorate the anniversary of the first world roma meeting, held in orpington, london, in 1971. although their different lifestyles, ingrained stereotypes and prejudices still create some tension between the majority populations and the roma, i think that roma day should be seen as a good opportunity to improve relations between the majority and the roma population. as a person from slovakia, from the košice region, where the largest number of roma in slovakia live, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that despite some disagreements, several roma representatives in roma communities are involved as volunteers in church and non-profit organizations, work as field social workers, assist teachers and i cannot forget that some roma are also mayors and members of municipal councils. despite the fact that the roma issue is extremely difficult and has been a long-standing problem in slovakia, i must say that in the košice region we have successful nursery schools, primary schools, community centres, municipal enterprises that do quality work with roma communities. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all roma for their cooperation so far and to wish them every success for the coming season.
for the ecr group mr. chairman, every year up to 15 million girls under the age of 18 are forced to marry, often to much older partners. that's 28 underage girls every minute. one girl every two seconds. bangladesh has one of the highest rates of child marriage in the world and a sadly high number in asia. more than half of girls are forced into marriage before reaching their majority, and almost 20% are even under the age of 15. in this context, it is alarming that bangladesh recently passed a law that, on the one hand, prohibits underage marriage, even setting the minimum age for boys at 21, but on the other hand, in so-called justified cases, allows exceptions. however, the text of the law does not specify a lower age limit for these exemptions, and there is also a real concern that the exemptions will be abused and thousands of girls will lose their childhoods. so today it seems that the law is not protecting girls from forced marriage in bangladesh, but better education is, because educated girls are better able to defend themselves and take control of their own lives.
in writing. i would like to draw the attention of eu citizens to one thing about the situation in hungary. i do not agree that we should have to choose between national sovereignty and democracy or between independent member states and the european union. i do not want to be involved in the ceu scandal or the 'stop brussels' campaign. i think it's very important that we don't allow the suppression, the elimination of the civil sphere, the independent media, the universities and the businesses, in the name of protecting sovereignty, for political purposes. this applies not only to hungary but also to slovakia and all other member states.
madam president! the course and results of the turkish referendum clearly show the direction president erdogan has taken. turkey is not ready to become a member of the eu, and therefore must hear a clear no. i therefore draw attention to the petition of the european christian political movement to stop the accession talks with turkey. president erdogan's aggressive policies are also threatening the restoration of peace in the middle east. yesterday's turkish airstrike and the ground attack this morning have weakened the syrian democratic forces' positions in northern syria and are giving daesh a strategic advantage. does turkey, as a nato member, have a real interest in eliminating daesh from the political map of the middle east? but turkey is also a significant and diverse country. our rejection of the current regime and the rejection of accession negotiations must be balanced by a clear message in favour of democratic forces. let us not forget that more than 23.7 million citizens have spoken out against president erdogan's usurpation of power and the european parliament must send a clear signal to these people. we reject the regime you have unjustly been placed under, and we will support the democratic values you believe in.
in writing. the turkish people have chosen the presidential system of government and recep tayyip erdoğan has thus achieved a strengthening of his powers. comforting oneself with the close result of the popular vote in turkey is absolutely useless. the country is moving towards dictatorship, according to the behavior and statements of its leader. this trend is strongly observable in the conduct of the turkish government at least since the suppression of the alleged military coup. religious fundamentalism, large-scale political purges, the intimidation of opposition, or the suppression of free speech cannot be ignored. this must also reflect the attitude of the european union and its member states to the situation in the country. no retreat or any defensive approach is in place. the turkish authorities have long since lost interest in reforms and in meeting the requirements of closer relations with the european union. instead, they resort to insults, intimidation, and blackmail.
in writing. i regard the result of the referendum as just further proof that turkey does not belong to the eu. president erdogan concentrates power in his hands and does not respect the basic principles of democracy. it is very hard to believe that this is the same man who a few years ago started the accession negotiations with the eu and started the reforms in the country that brought long-term economic growth. today we hear reports of arrests of journalists and protesters, of suppression of freedom of speech and similar authoritarian practices that have no place in the eu. we must find a new form of cooperation with turkey, based on honesty and a clear statement that the turks cannot count on membership. we've been putting off this kind of direct expression for years. the result is a single closed chapter in the accession process, frustration in turkey and a rise in radicalism in europe. if we tell the turks frankly that we want to work closely on trade and security, but not on membership, we'll get rid of the rock that's dragging our relations down. we'll finally be able to sit down at a clean table and build our relationship on a new and mutually beneficial basis. i reject the claims of some socialists and idealists that we should give the turks another chance. they've had too much and wasted too much in the last few decades.
in writing. i support the structural reform support programme that we have adopted today because it can provide the member states with a suitable instrument for the necessary economic reforms. i am pleased that parliament has managed to agree to include cohesion policy in the programme, which means that it will be possible to promote improvements in social, economic and territorial cohesion. it will also be important for member states that the programme will operate on a voluntary basis only those countries that request assistance for structural reforms will benefit from it. an important aspect of our efforts is that regional and local authorities will also have to be involved in the reform process. the transparency of the programme will be guaranteed by increased scrutiny by the european parliament, which will be able to assess its added value. as regards specific actions, the commission shall support under this programme the implementation of (a) reforms in the context of economic governance, (b) reforms related to the implementation of macroeconomic adjustment programmes in the case of member states receiving union financial assistance and (c) reforms carried out by member states on their own initiative to promote sustainable investment, growth and job creation. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
in writing. in the eu context, the european investment bank is a key financial instrument and institution for sustaining public and private investment in the union. the eib has a surplus of eur 2,8 billion in 2015. eur 14 billion was invested in transport projects alone. i consider it important that in future, eib assistance and support continue to focus on viable projects with high added value, which will have a positive impact on employment growth, support innovative projects and exploit domestic energy and raw materials resources. attention should be focused on small and medium-sized enterprises, including in more remote regions, which can move the economy, the economy and tackle the problem of unemployment, especially among young people. at the same time, the eib must contribute to increasing tax discipline and preventing and detecting fraud through a responsible tax policy and by providing high-quality and sufficient information on the final beneficiaries of aid.
for the ecr group. madam president, the possibility of acquiring new knowledge, skills or abilities is no longer limited to the traditional school of one's place of residence. internet, distance learning, study trips or volunteering these are all ways that individuals today, whether at a young age or in life, can increase their skills. however, the diversity of ways in which these skills are acquired automatically brings with it the need to understand, evaluate and recognise them in some way, so as to improve the individual's ability to choose a job and at the same time to clearly indicate to the employer the skills of the jobseeker. the european qualifications framework for lifelong learning is a tool for member states to better understand and recognise skills acquired in other education systems in other countries, or in non-formal or informal education. although the recommendation on the european qualifications framework was adopted back in 2008, its objectives of transparency, comparability and transferability of qualifications have not yet been fully achieved and therefore the tool needs to be further developed and made more effective in order to make it easier for employers, workers and learners to understand national and international qualifications as well as qualifications from third countries. in this regard, member states must step up efforts to recognise formal qualifications and diplomas, as well as certificate supplements and references of the relevant level of the european qualifications framework, more quickly and efficiently, and the results of the references should be made publicly available at both national and european union level. in this context, it should be recalled that it is the duty and the exclusive competence of the member states to ensure the quality of the content of teaching and the organisation of education systems, and the european qualifications framework does not in any way interfere with this responsibility.
madam president, lifelong learning is now proving to be indispensable in the application of new technologies, automation, robotics and new information technologies to the labour market. since the financial and economic crisis, we have approved and implemented many support programmes for education, retraining and job creation. but it turns out that the unemployment rate in the member states is still very high, even though in each country we have many jobs that are unfilled because there are not enough applicants with the necessary qualifications or skills. the link between education, training and employment was the guiding principle behind the creation of the european qualifications framework for lifelong learning. we all know that education and training systems are the exclusive responsibility of the member states, and the european qualifications framework was designed to allow for targeted exchanges and cooperation between member states, so that the recognition of qualifications and skills would not be an obstacle to employment in the pursuit of a common europe, such as the free movement of persons. as the objectives of the original european qualifications framework were not met, the question for the commission is instead, and i fully agree with it, why the revised framework should work better, given that the current one has been implemented only partially. member states which are the holders of the european qualifications framework tasks also call for the implementation of the original one. i also agree with the other questions that have been raised and i expect well-founded answers from the commission.
mr president, i appreciate that we are returning to this very important subject in the european parliament. food waste is not only highly unethical, with almost 800 million people worldwide suffering from malnutrition and over 88 million tonnes of food wasted in europe each year, but it is also a wasteful drain on our resources. although food waste occurs at all stages of the production process, the fact remains that the largest proportion of food waste, up to 53%, is caused by households. so it's up to each of us to respond to this phenomenon. we have had many good experiences, first of all in purchasing in line with our consumption, in storing food properly to extend its shelf life, and also in being able to share it with those in need through charitable projects. at the same time, it is necessary to adopt measures at member state level to encourage restaurant operators or large food chains to engage in such projects.
mr president, this is not the first time that we in the european parliament have dealt with food waste. i think it's right, because we should value food. as a doctor, i would urge caution. even with the best of intentions, we must not allow some eu citizens to be exposed to higher health risks simply because they are in a poverty situation. i would therefore like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to ask yourselves the question in your minds when you propose any specific measure: would i give such food to my child or to my parents? because only by asking this question can we reduce food waste in a way that does not endanger public health and, above all, preserves the human dignity of those who rely on this kind of food aid.
madam president, i think it is time we moved further on the issue of food waste prevention. after all, 55 million people have hot food for lunch. we know that 88 million tonnes are thrown away in the eu every year and that 173 kg is wasted per person per year, which means that we have to take care how we evaluate this, and it is up to the commission to set up a joint committee so that we can go further and compare individual member states. it is outrageous that charitable organisations wishing to distribute food provided by restaurants or large chains are subject to vat on the food donated. this has to stop.
madam president, symbolic gestures are as important in politics as practical solutions. they express value orientation and basic priorities. when the united nations general assembly proclaimed may 15 as international family day in 1994, it signaled that people worldwide understood the importance of the family to the functioning of society. a similar gesture has been missing for years from the european commission, but also from the governments of the member states, to return slovakia. finding the courage to join the family is the first step in bringing the family perspective into laws and policies. this year's theme for family day is the role of families in promoting the education and well-being of their members. let's use it as an opportunity to at least symbolically acknowledge the work of all the caregivers in the families. to your mother, father, grandparents, or siblings.
madam president, the relocation and redistribution system of refugees between member states is not working, i think it should be made clear. of the 160 000 migrants under compulsory quotas, only just over 10% have been taken in by member states so far. the slovak republic and hungary brought an action which was referred to the court of justice of the european union. the refugee quotas were adopted in contradiction to the recommendations of the representatives of the member countries. the decision was to be taken unanimously, but instead the majority voted for the minority. in such a sensitive issue and in such a heated atmosphere, this has only contributed to the increase in support for extremist and anti-european forces and political forces in europe. if it is confirmed that decisions can be taken without the consent of those concerned, this will result in the division of europe and the frustration of the population of the smaller eu member states. we cannot divide the eu into west and east, between the insubordinate and the responsible, and ultimately, we cannot circumvent the decisions of democratically elected governments and the will of the people. i want to acknowledge that the eu has set up hotspots, empowered the newly created european border and coast guard and that a great deal of effort has been put into this.
mr president, today it is self-evident that european strategies towards syria have failed. the eu was consistently sidelined in the un-sponsored negotiations. we are constantly being surprised by the moves of others: the us, turkey, russia and iran. collectively the european countries are the largest humanitarian donor in syria, but this does not translate into any real influence on the dynamics of the conflict. it is, of course, difficult for the eu to play geopolitics, even peacemaking, without real military weight. the eu will never be the leading player in brokering a lasting ceasefire, let alone a political transition in syria. our best chance is to become an actor who opens up the political space and creates incentives for un negotiations to succeed through confidence-building, financial support and future reconstruction, as well as through sanctions and measures to bring the perpetrators of war crimes to justice.
mr president, first of all i would like to join those colleagues who welcome the strategy for syria. in this horrifying conflict, the eu needs to step up its efforts and play a greater role in finding a lasting political solution. we need to be able to react promptly to changing realities on the ground and to challenges in the region. we should be acting in areas where we are able to make a real difference, be it through diplomatic support or post-agreement reconstruction and reconciliation in the region. we should step up our contribution to the political process under the un-agreed framework and at the same time continue in our resilience and humanitarian support under the ‘whole syria’ approach. i welcome the fact that the eu strategy is outlining eu readiness to help in transition processes and the reconstruction of syria. this will be a hard and extremely complicated task. therefore, we need to have a clear idea of how to do it. contributing to a political solution to the syrian crisis is by all means a great challenge – however, not the only one we are facing in the region. we have to remain sensitive to the stability of the neighbouring countries: jordan or lebanon, but also turkey. in this respect i would like to appeal to the high representative to carefully monitor developments in the region and be ready to follow the strategic goals outlined in this strategy.
mr president, first of all i thank the high representative for her statement. as many colleagues have already said, we need to end the conflict in syria urgently. as you might have heard, in the northern region of syria, in rojava canton, there is a democratic regional self-administration, the federation of northern syria. kurds, syriacs, yazidis, turkmen and arabs are cooperating peacefully in this region, making a model for the whole country. high representative, there is a great need for humanitarian aid in this federation of northern syria. unfortunately, the kdp is still blocking the area. the situation is worsening. therefore, i urge you to do whatever you can to stop this blockade and to send humanitarian aid to this region. we need better political cooperation between the european union and the federation of northern syria. we really need to fully cooperate with a real democracy in the region. therefore, high representative, i call upon you to normalise the relations with the federation as soon as possible.
madam president, madam high representative, colleagues, the situation of the christians in the middle east is alarming, as many of us here are saying, especially in syria and iraq. the christians, as the indigenous people of the region, creating a much-needed balance between religion and ethnic groups, are expelled or killed, or persecuted. with no christians left, the european union loses a reliable and perspective partner for reconstructing the middle east. madam high representative, it should be our foremost priority to protect people who are culturally and civilisation-wise close to europeans. we should support these groups, both in the humanitarian and political ways – but not only in syria and iraq, but also in the southern region of turkey and other countries in the middle east. it is a shame we let these atrocities happen, but thank you very much for the things you expressed in your statement at the beginning about the ways we support the minorities and the groups there. another example is the palestinian authority. churches under their authority are not able to register, even though they fulfil all requirements set by the law. the palestinian authorities simply refuse them. i have these examples; i can bring them. madam high representative, i call upon you to discuss these matters with the palestinian authorities.
madam president, if i were to just list the terrorist attacks and read the names of the innocent people who were killed by islamist militants just because they were baptized and attended church, i would not have enough time. the countries where these killings take place have received billions of euros in development and humanitarian aid over the past decade. only the recent attack on copts in egypt proves that the situation of christians has remained as desperate since the assassination of mosul's archbishop rah in 2008. our development support has not brought any change, our aid has not helped christians. they continue to be killed, intimidated, kidnapped and denied their basic rights on a daily basis. with all due respect to mrs mogherini, i think the eu's external action is failing here. and on behalf of the citizens i represent, i ask for redress.
in writing. on 29 march, donald tusk received a letter from the united kingdom officially announcing its intention to leave the european union. the first meeting of the european council of 27 took place on 29 april. the european council meeting in brussels on 21 and 22 june was a success story for the eu, with the european council meeting in brussels on 27 and 28 june providing a keynote address to the european parliament. the 27 members of the european union are in full agreement that negotiations should begin as soon as possible. we will wait patiently for the june parliamentary elections, but then the negotiation process must begin.
in writing. i am pleased that the european council has adopted the echr's position and will put the preservation of the rights of our citizens in the united kingdom at the forefront of the brexit negotiations. our parting must be amicable and fair.
in writing. until it leaves the european union, the united kingdom remains a full member of the european union and has all the rights and obligations set out in the eu treaties and legislation. what happens when it leaves the union? a state which is not a member of the union and which does not fulfil the same obligations as a member cannot enjoy the same rights and the same benefits as a member. britain can't just pick grapes out of a cake. the main purpose of the first phase of the negotiations on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu will be to provide citizens, businesses, stakeholders and international partners with as much clarity and legal certainty as possible as regards the immediate consequences of the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union. the agreement on the future relationship between the union and the united kingdom may only be concluded once the united kingdom has become a third country. of course, the way in which he withdraws must take account of the framework of his future relations with the union. the overall understanding of the framework of the future relationship will therefore be defined during the second phase of the negotiations under article 50 teu. given the unique circumstances on the island of ireland, a way of avoiding a fixed border will be necessary, while respecting the integrity of the union legal order.
mr president, subsidiarity and proportionality are guiding principles of the european union, but this house has been misguided and, in my opinion, has been misleading european politics on this point for quite some time, in my opinion. the european parliament is the only european institution with members democratically and directly elected. i have the honour of representing slovak constituents. they expect that the eu will help them with issues where the eu can work better than they can alone. however, they do not welcome interference and intrusion into areas outside eu competence or where these actions are unhelpful or ideologically opposed. unfortunately, that is what is happening in this house on a regular basis. i welcome my colleague’s report. i would like to call upon all members of this house to respect existing principles. taking competencies and responsibilities from the people will have a negative effect on trust in the european project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european central bank is abusing its position in the long run by lending to countries that private investors no longer trust, and at near-zero interest rates. one day, this destructive policy will end in disaster and people will say, look, the market has failed. but the truth is that the market has been disrupted. the italian example shows what the debt policy is doing: interest rates have been falling steadily over the last decade, and debt has risen immensely. today italy, and more recently france, has more absolute debt than germany, although their economies are noticeably smaller. the germans are stupid enough to pay for all this. target 2 assets: new record, foreign assets: also a record: liability to the ecb still a record. and as if that were not enough, the new political superstar mr macron is demanding eurobonds, which means even more debt. and then we just wonder where all these extremists are coming from.
mr president, thanks to mr szejnfeld for his work on this file. i welcome the positive outcomes of implementation of the fta with korea. it shows that trade liberalisation, opening markets and building trade partnerships with similar economies bring benefits for both parties. we are in the sixth year of implementation of this agreement and we can see positive tangible results. our overall trade balance has been substantially increasing since starting implementation of this agreement in 2011. we should still be aware that this is the first comprehensive fta negotiated with a fully industrialised and developed economy and at the same time the first trade agreement with an asian country. the assessment of this fta is a good opportunity to draw lessons for the future of eu external trade and investment policies through ftas. i think it should be a strong argument for fostering other free trade deals with developing and developed countries in the region.
in writing. the norwegian financial mechanism and the european economic area financial mechanism for the period up to 2021 shall constitute contributions from norway, iceland and liechtenstein aimed at reducing economic and social disparities in the beneficiary countries and enhancing bilateral cooperation between them. in total, the 15 beneficiary countries have €2.8 billion available for the current programming period, an increase of more than 11% over the past. one of these countries is slovakia, which has a rich experience in implementing the funds from the period 2004 to 2009 and 2009 to 2014. we will be able to use 113 million euros, which is about a third more than the last period completed. these contributions are part of the agreement which gives norway, iceland and liechtenstein full access to the european single market. they should help to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and promote sustainable economic growth. in slovakia, they will focus on greening businesses and creating so-called green jobs, anti-flood activities, combating domestic violence and social inclusion of roma.
in writing. we are halfway through the current seven-year programming period for the mobilisation of the structural and investment funds. this is why discussions are beginning to open up about what cohesion policy will look like after 2020. one of the key questions will be to what extent cohesion policy priorities will be funded by grants and to what extent we will use financial instruments. i support mr novak's report because it also expresses my conviction that the grant system must be maintained in certain areas. grants should be the preferred form of investment, in particular in public infrastructure, social services, but also in research and innovation. of course, member states and regions must be free to choose the proportion of grants and financial instruments they use to implement their priorities. at the same time, i must say that the combination of these two types of instruments still offers unexplored potential. i also agree that financial instruments (such as different types of loans or guarantees) are relevant and effective, especially in developed regions and larger cities. but it should not be forgotten that remote regions, regions with high unemployment or low population density will always have difficulties in attracting investment. it is for these areas that we are depopulating that it will be necessary to keep the grant system in place, so that a high level of education and social services can be maintained.
mr president, by signing the parliamentary question, but also by speaking, i join all my colleagues in urging the commission to revise eu legislation to protect consumers by removing double standards in the quality of products sold in central, eastern and western europe. i am very pleased that the eu summit in march also raised the issue of dual quality of food. this is a subject that is more urgent than ever in this period. we are in the brexit process, the voices of the european pessimists and the eurosceptics are growing in the eu, and the double quality of food and the division of people into better and worse, less demanding and more demanding, is encouraging extremist parties to incite riots and announce further referendums for leaving the eu. it is therefore time for the commission to take swift and decisive action throughout the supply-to-consumer chain to ensure that profiteering traders and producers cannot deceive consumers and that any food fraud is also duly punished.
madam president, in recent months we have seen how, despite all the great talk about solidarity and a united europe, several member states have unfairly prevented eastern european carriers from entering the market. for example, it is the minimum wage introduced by germany, france, and the allowances paid must not be part of it. this puts foreign carriers at a disadvantage. or, for example, not being able to spend a week's rest in your own truck. there are questions about insurance when the driver leaves the truck, and a lot of other things. or, for example, various documentation in the national language, which has not been missing for twenty years. i would remind you that slovakia, for example, opened its markets when it came to the food market, the land market, the privatisation of strategic enterprises. on the contrary, western countries are closing their markets. they do this by various non-tariff measures, by inventing obstacles and administrative barriers and by making it difficult for eastern european carriers to enter their markets. i find this very unfair. the european commission should have acted long ago. she's had two years of open violations and she's not acting, she's sleeping and she's stalling. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, as we speak today, we are facing an unprecedented increase in anti-semitism in europe. for years, hate speech and hate crimes against jews were the domain of marginal groups and political movements. unfortunately, anti-semitism is becoming a strong political stream in europe. it is accepted and followed by many, often in ignorance of its real impact on people in our communities. populist, anti-establishment movements use any kind of motivation to gain attention. this includes so-called ‘discussion’ of the holocaust, and verbal and physical violence against jews in european cities and the presence of jews in the middle east. this dangerous political rhetoric, however, leads us back to dubious discussion and debate about the legitimacy of the state of israel. democracy cannot be an excuse for allowing undemocratic forces to act. jews in europe have the right to live freely without fear. the state of israel has the right to exist and protect itself. any kind of questioning of this legitimacy cannot be part of a debate in this house or anywhere else. i call on my colleagues, in the first place, to unite and give a strong political message to the world: any kind of anti-semitism, subtle or explicit, has to be rejected. i also call on member states clearly to target grey areas in their educational systems. new generations of european citizens must be raised with awareness of this issue and be able to refuse from the very beginning the malign seed of anti-semitism.
in writing. the data from the osce and the eu agency for fundamental rights, as well as other bodies, are worrying that the number of anti-jewish motivated incidents has increased significantly in recent years. hate speech and all forms of violence against european jewish citizens are contrary to the values of the european union, and therefore the fight against anti-semitism must be the responsibility of society as a whole. civil society, educational institutions, journalists, religious and church organisations, as well as public authorities, have a very important role to play in combating anti-semitism, in order to identify and address any manifestations of extremism, anti-semitism and intolerance in accordance with the applicable laws. more than 70 years after the end of the second world war, generations have grown up without knowledge of the atrocities committed during the war, and it is necessary for member states to promote the teaching of the holocaust in schools and to ensure that teachers are adequately trained to fulfil this role and are able to respond adequately to the diversity of pupils in the classrooms. the commission also needs to work closely with international actors such as unesco, the osce and the council of europe, as well as other partners, at international level to combat anti-semitism.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, minister, as the shadow rapporteur of the epp, i would like at first to say thank you to our rapporteur angelika mlinar for her really great job and professional approach. let me remind that the mandate of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the next four years is to work in eight huge thematic areas, namely equality and discrimination based on sex, race, ethnic origin, or based on language, religion or political opinion. this agency also produces research and surveys on discrimination based on disability, age or sexual orientation, or on membership of any national minority. the fra will be responsible not only for the protection of personal data, but also for migration, asylum and integration of refugees and migrants. other important issues are racism, xenophobia and related intolerance, as well as children’s rights. last, but not least, the agency takes care of the victims of crime and access to justice. however, some of you complained about their exclusion of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. our legal services confirmed that the current legal basis does not allow such an addition. as madam mlinar pointed out, it would be a highly sensitive change, but there is a possibility to adjust the thematic areas by changing the establishing regulation of the european union agency for fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we can be proud of a union which commits to preserving the god-given gifts of life and human dignity for all of us. we should deeply value fundamental rights for all, both in our nation-states and in our cooperation. the fundamental rights agency (fra) has a duty to gather data on how well we are doing and to offer solutions to the institutions and member states seeking to safeguard them. they are servants of our union. as such, we must carefully cost and evaluate the added value to be gained if new areas of competence are to be given to them or not. in the past doubts have been raised over the methodology ensuring certain minorities, as we can read in the report on homophobia, transphobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. costly research was weakened by respondents being able to enter the data multiple times and without further checks. i cannot, therefore, support any expansion of fra topics and i would question whether this would be given real value for taxpayers’ money.
in writing. the european union must be a leader in the digital economy. the individual industries are key employers in most member states. they provide economic dynamism, are important for the development of social policy and for effectively addressing the major societal challenges we are forced to face. we are part of a digital industrial revolution that is bringing about fundamental technological change. they affect business models, the production and consumption of goods and services. a global competition is under way to see who can best adapt to and benefit from the new conditions. the european union has built up a certain lead and therefore has a great chance of being a leader in the digital economy. the eu is at the forefront of reducing energy demand, promoting the use of renewable energy sources, innovation and reducing co2 emissions. the ability of member states to continue to cooperate on economic issues, the development of the common market and the industrial base will be important for success. at the same time, the promotion of new technologies must not lead to an increase in social insecurity. this is what populist and extremist parties and movements exploit. they promise their constituents that they'll keep things the way they are, or they'll go back decades. but that's definitely not the way to go. on the contrary, responsible governments must support employers in preparing workers for the new conditions.
in writing. the fifth generation of wireless network will significantly improve the technologies dependent on data transmission speed. the acceleration of the flow of information will have a significant impact on the quality of services in all sectors, the opportunities for trade and business and the overall competitiveness of the economy. the deployment of 5g networks can lead to the creation of up to 2,3 million direct and indirect jobs in the union and can thus help to address the challenges of remote regions. i support the consistent deployment and implementation of the 5g network action plan by member states and the commission so that the union becomes the world leader in the deployment of standardised 5g networks between 2020 and 2025.
in writing. digitalisation is a phenomenon that will completely change the structure of industry, labour relations and business in the near future. we have to prepare for this change because we're facing increasing competition from fast-growing economies like india and china. these countries have even outpaced us in many ways. at the european parliament level, we have succeeded in pushing for the abolition of roaming charges, geoblocking of internet content and also unifying bands for high-speed connections. these are key steps towards building a fully-fledged digital market within the european union. the task of reforming education systems, labour codes and opening the way to new forms of entrepreneurship remains for the national states. i regret to say that slovakia is lagging far behind in these areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in the same common market the same rules must apply. but recently we have seen a lot of practices where different quality appears on the european market under the same brand. i believe that we must take action against such practices and that they violate the rules of our common market. moreover, in the younger eu member states, such practices are viewed very sensitively and people are considered second-class citizens. even some populists exploit these practices to fuel anti-european sentiment. that is why i am in favour of always providing the consumer with information to help him make a decision. i'm all for us having the same brand, the same quality. i am in favour of dealing with this issue on european soil. it is important to involve producers and traders who want to compete fairly in this debate, and it is important to divide competences between the european and national levels. i believe we can make progress on this issue because our people see european integration through such topics.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing this morning in the house is a sensitive one because it concerns the freedom of the media. and there is no doubt that every single one of us who is going to speak in this debate today is in favor of freedom of the press, and we are in favor of people who are employed in the media, and the media in general, being able to write, speak, publish free opinions. it's not always like that, and it's not always because the media is owned by a particular politician. if we want to talk broadly about media ownership and ownership structures, then we have to say that there is not much difference between whether the media is owned by particular politicians, or whether the media is owned by economic groups that also have their own economic interests and through the media, indirectly or often directly, they pressure political structures to make decisions, and they don't shy away from going so far as to, say, discredit particular politicians who have no interest in making decisions as the media owners' economists imagine. the situation that has arisen in the czech republic is complicated and it is obviously up to the czech voters to decide whether they want in the future and whether they decide in the next elections that in their government, in their parliament, there will be people who own the media and who in some way usurp the right to decide on the opinions that these media publish. but such a debate needs a much wider scope, and such a debate, commissioner, must address the situation of ownership relations in the media and the influence on the situation in individual countries through the media. ( the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. you are a very experienced politician and you know very well how things work in our countries. yes, it is the economic groups that buy the mainstream media and through the mainstream media try to influence events in countries right up to the major political decisions. on the other hand, i must say that i have been in this parliament for 14 years and i remember the great debate on berlusconi and the situation in the media in italy, and that is why i appealed to the commissioner to adopt some european standards which will define exactly what possibilities will be created in the future for the ownership of media structures.
madam president, in the age of the internet, media freedom, especially in europe, is virtually unlimited. we have facebook, we have youtube, we have the internet, blogs, comments. i have a feeling that the european union is trying to restrict media freedom, so it's called the fight against fake news. on the european parliament's floor, i consider that the freedom of the media in a member state is primarily an interference with the sovereignty of that member state. i don't want to endorse what happened. i also don't think it's right that leading politicians try to influence public opinion through the media, but i think it's ridiculous that the european parliament is dealing with this. freedom of the press exists. everyone can speak and write whatever they want. and finally, i am convinced that the citizens of the czech republic will be able to take this into account in their decision-making and will choose the right government. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. yeah, i agree with that. people should know more, including these things, and take that into account in their decision-making. and finally, it is happening, because the recordings have been leaked, there is talk about it, there is writing about it, but i still see no reason for the european parliament to deal with this one thing specifically now. you know how many politicians are involved in various other businesses. in other countries, politicians are also owned by various media or are influenced by financial groups. that would be nothing more than this parliament dealing with media influence. you just have to let it go. this is a matter for the member states to decide.
in writing. cohesion policy is currently the main source of investment in many member states and is producing tangible results. the european structural funds have made considerable progress in transport infrastructure, social infrastructure, health infrastructure, education, urban renewal, the environment, and, above all, in promoting new jobs. it is therefore important to maintain a cohesion policy beyond 2020 that balances regional disparities and prevents depopulation of remote areas. it is therefore important that an adequate budget is allocated to cohesion policy, despite the reduction in revenue due to brexit. following the experience of the current programming period, it is important that this policy is simplified at all its stages from the announcement of the calls, through implementation, to financing and control. it is also important for the mobilisation of the egfs that the funds can be mobilised more flexibly in the event of unforeseen events, such as natural disasters and unforeseen events. cohesion policy has many opponents, so it is also important that it is a visible policy, that it is transparent, that the principle of partnership is respected and that citizens of the region are informed of any investment.
mr president, it is certainly unfair that in the european union men aged 65 and over receive on average 38% more in pensions than women. at the same time, we must clarify that the pension system is part of the social system of the member states and therefore should be fully within their competence. the long-standing problem in all member states, including slovakia, is that men and women spend some time outside the work process caring for a family member without being counted towards their pension. i therefore believe that women and men should be free to choose the form of care that suits their child or dependent member of the household. i consider it the best home care. in slovakia, however, there is no assessment of such domestic work. if society doesn't value such work, the result will be unfair pensions. but it must be said that the real problem in slovakia is mainly the low pensions in general. how can it be justified that our pensioners have significantly more difficulty obtaining basic food or medicines than men, while in slovakia the difference in those pensions is the second lowest in the eu on average only 8%. it's alarmingly low pensions overall, caused by the black market.
mr president, we have been talking a lot lately about the need to uphold democratic principles in the european union, including the protection of minorities. yes, i'm talking about the 50 million eu citizens who identify as minority-affiliated and who have now started collecting one million signatures using the possibilities of the european citizens' initiative. we ask the european commission, whose name is mr frans timmermans, to make the most important council of europe documents on the protection of minorities binding in the internal legal order of the eu. the most important of these is the european charter for regional or minority languages, which is celebrating its 25th anniversary. the protection of the rights of indigenous minorities is not adequate, for example, in slovakia, of which i am a citizen. the positive attitude is lacking, the charter is not being applied satisfactorily. and what better proof of this than the fact that i could make this speech here in the european parliament in my mother tongue, as i could have done in my own country 30 years ago under the communist dictatorship. but today, in the eu member state of slovakia, i have no right to do that, which is unfortunately a step backwards.
madam president, the european union is preparing a common guarantee for deposits, which sounds nice and european, but it is extremely unfair. that is, the more countries that have bad credit, the more likely that their banks will go bankrupt and that deposit, the joint deposit, will be held in escrow. bad loans in europe total over €1 trillion, and let's see where, in which countries, these bad loans are located. portugal 41 billion, france 148, spain 141, greece 115, italy 276 million, and the united kingdom and ireland are the only countries to have a gdp per capita of less than the eu average. for comparison, slovakia has only 2 billion bad loans, and it's only half as big as greece or portugal. i therefore reject joint deposit guarantee in principle, because once again the citizens of slovakia will only have to pay for it, as was the case with greece, when we, a much poorer country, paid for the greek motorways.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, david mccallister, for a very well-written report. we have before us a text which objectively reflects the development of integration in serbia over the preceding period. serbia underwent several political changes during this period. i am pleased that the presidential elections held in april were a smooth one and i trust that the new president will continue serbia's pro-european course. serbia is progressing in the integration process. the opening of new chapters is a clear signal that the country is well prepared for accession negotiations. it should be recalled that in key areas such as the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary or the fight against corruption, serbia should demonstrate greater political will in addressing pressing issues. these are mainly chapters 23 and 24, where we expect a clear political signal, reforms and a decisive solution. increasingly, we are also receiving information on persistent problems of media freedom, attacks on journalists, as well as problems related to civil liberties and the shrinking space for civil society. although this trend is evident in all countries of the region, let us not hide it, we should be very sensitive to these issues and clearly draw attention to them. only in this way can we deepen the confidence of serbian society in european values. in conclusion, i would like to encourage serbian politicians to continue a responsible and constructive policy in the region. serbia, as one of the regional leaders, has a responsibility for the stability and development of the entire region. i strongly believe that he will use this new role to stimulate cooperation throughout the region. thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur ulrike lunacek and to congratulate the people of kosovo for the orderly and peaceful elections conducted last sunday. now it is of the essence to move forward on forming a government and starting to address much-needed reforms. we need to see the improvement of both the rule of law and the fight against corruption. it has been over a year since the stabilisation and association agreement entered into force, and more tangible progress on eu approximation needs to be seen. kosovo cannot afford to lose more time, as seen in the first half of 2016 during the impasse in the kosovo assembly. that is why i urge all political parties to participate constructively in the daily political life of the parliament. kosovo’s role in the region also remains very important. i hope that the new government will play a positive role in the regional reconciliation. strong political will and good faith to implement agreements, including the setting up of the association of serbian municipalities, will be a much appreciated gesture from kosovo to all its neighbours and to its own population. this needs a tough political determination. i hope that the incoming government will possess the political capital to do this.
in writing. the paris agreement was negotiated for 20 long years. finally, a historic agreement was reached, committing the international community to tackling the causes and consequences of climate change. the paris agreement represents a strong alliance between developing and developed countries, as only two states in the world have not signed it, namely syria and nicaragua. that's why it was a shock to all of us when president trump announced that the united states of america no longer wished to remain a party to the paris agreement. the debate included the president of the marshall islands, hilda heine, so we heard firsthand about the threats posed by climate change and the daily fight against them. it is only when we think of the severe consequences of seven months of drought, the overwhelming power of a typhoon, or the people who were left homeless by the tides that we really realize how fortunate our geographical location is. and the marshall islands got one of these every year. the european union must take the lead in meeting the goals set out in the paris agreement in order to pass on a healthy planet to the next generation. the agreement also contributes to economic development and social well-being in the long term. the commitments can also be seen as opportunities that encourage member states to develop ambitious, modern technological achievements.
in writing. the european union has been facing unprecedented pressure from russia over the past three years and is struggling with the migration crisis. in addition, we are witnessing the emergence of various anti-european movements, which are being generously supported by the so-called alternative media. the result is a decline in trust not only in the common european project but also in the state and its institutions. we can only restore that trust by a policy that is based on our inherent values and addresses real citizens' problems.
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments is at the heart of the investment plan for europe, as one of the instruments created to cope with the consequences of the economic crisis. one of its manifestations was the sharp drop in the rate of investment, which the so-called juncker package was intended to prevent. the original intention was to help in particular projects with a high innovation potential, but which are still relatively risky in terms of investment. it was also intended to focus in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises as the driving force of the european economy. the result was to be a renewal of market confidence and a subsequent multiplication of the funds thus invested. after a year and a half of operation, it is clear that there is considerable interest in this money. however, they do not always lead to projects that are strictly oriented towards innovation and respond to the future needs of the development of the european economy. moreover, the distribution of these resources within the european union is rather uneven. the vast majority of these have so far been directed to the so-called old member states. in the future, these member states will have to be much more active in order to receive the funding in question. support for smes is vital for the progress and competitiveness of the european economy, especially in the face of ever-increasing levels of international competition.
author. – mr president, i am very glad that this debate is taking place. the situation regarding human rights in pakistan is very difficult. ethnic and religious minorities experience huge difficulties if they are different from – or think differently to – the government or the majority of the pakistani people. several minority people have been killed or persecuted because they were not protected by the government. one issue i want to highlight in particular is the so—called blasphemy laws. i would like to ask the high commissioner to urge the government of pakistan to review these laws or, even better, to abolish them. these laws are wide open to misuse as tools for setting personal vendettas and oppressing minorities. the pakistani government therefore also should make sure that, until the laws are revised, people will not suffer as a result of them for false purposes.
mr president, i supported the resolution on the implementation report of the european fund for strategic investments because it is one of the ways to increase investment in the european union in projects that could increase employment and prosperity. this own-initiative report contains many good suggestions on how to improve the functioning of this new instrument and improve communication with both citizens and businesses. however, i would like to stress that improving the investment environment cannot be just a matter of public investment, but above all of private resources. thank you. thank you.
mr president, i supported the report on the collaborative economy, albeit with some embarrassment. because until i read it, i thought there was no difference between a collaborative economy and a market economy. i am therefore pleased that initiative reports such as this one also broaden my horizons and give me the opportunity to look at familiar phenomena such as the division of labour, specialisation and the consequent need for cooperation in the exchange of goods and services with entirely new eyes. however, it is likely that much time will pass before the discourse on the collaborative economy is incorporated into european legislation. thank you. thank you.
mr president, in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the commission to prepare a new set of rules for the financing of european political parties and foundations. in some respects, i agree with the complainants that some changes may be necessary. however, i understand the concerns of small political parties and foundations, for whom some types of change could have a direct knock-on effect. i am therefore convinced that both the commission and this parliament should be sensitive and considerate in this matter. we as members of the european parliament must monitor this process, we must comment on it and we must be active. we can't wait until the final text when there's not much else to change. i also insist that if we were to change the rules in the future, they should only take effect at the beginning of the new term. thank you. thank you.
mr president, every few years this house tries to change the rules governing european parties. apart from entailing a lot of work in each successive debate, this is not good for stable democracy in the eu. that is my opinion. the proposal raising the number of meps needed to create a european party is unhelpful for the much-needed dialogue between the eu institutions and citizens in the eu. it gives a strong impression that you need to be inside the brussels bubble in order to become part of it. if you need three to five meps to create a european party, that will close the door to any initiative from the bottom up, the kind of initiative that the eu now needs most. not all small and new parties are anti-eu. this measure will not stop far right groupings, but it will be undemocratic, as it closes the doors on basically all new parties in the future. that is not the message which we should send to our citizens.
madam president, the debate on the impact of european policy on the family should open and close every meeting of the european parliament. we face the problems of low birth rates and increasing life expectancy. yet we continue to fail to see not only the unpaid work that women mothers do in childcare, family and household care, but also the important role that parents play in providing quality education and child rearing. our labor market and pension systems punish fathers and mothers who choose to raise children. the time they spend on them is a drag on employers and leads to lower wages and pensions. being a parent doesn't pay off. the solution is not individualization of policies, but family mainstreaming. every policy has an impact on the family, and that needs to be quantified in advance. only then can we make policy choices that lead to better family situations, a rejuvenated europe and sustainable prosperity. madam president, allow me to say one remark to the commissioner. mr commissioner, i would like to ask you not to use 'reconciliation of private and professional lives'; it is 'family and professional life'. private and professional is not the same.
in writing. according to the survey, 92% of respondents believe that household electrical appliances or advanced technologies are deliberately designed to be short-lived. european consumers are more likely to choose lower-end products from developing countries. european companies are paying for this by offering better quality and more durable products. the longer durability, resistance and repairability of products is therefore a challenge for manufacturers and consumers. it is also a crucial issue for ensuring sustainable environmental protection. excessive consumption and short product life increases the cost of disposal and endangers the environment, air and ecosystems. i therefore fully support the proposal to adopt measures to increase and guarantee the longevity of products and to increase the interest in recycling them. at the same time, we will encourage the creation of repair shops. this is estimated to create up to 296 jobs as equivalent to 10 000 tonnes of products used. if we recycle just 1% of this waste, we can create over 200,000 jobs.
in writing. mr president, i am delighted that we are having a debate on longer product life. this is the right step towards the satisfaction of our citizens and towards a significant reduction in waste generated by the disposal of not only non-functioning appliances. the european commission, member states and producers need to take action to bring consumers more durable and repairable high-quality products. our aim must be to extend the life of products and to combat the built-in obsolescence of goods and software. it is necessary to establish at european level minimum durability criteria for each product category, which should be taken into account by manufacturers at the design stage. we must also not forget to extend the warranty period for products by the duration of their repairs, provided that the repair period is longer than one month. i also welcome the introduction of a voluntary european product labelling system that focuses on durability and repairability. last but not least, i am in favour of encouraging the services of independent repairers to prevent intentional damage to products. according to eurobarometer data, up to 77% of consumers in the european union prefer to try to repair broken products rather than buy new ones. however, they are often eventually forced to replace or discard the product because of the high repair costs and the level of service provided. i support the report.
mr president, i am sure all of you heard about charlie gard, a 10-month-old boy in the uk suffering from a rare genetic disease. his doctors concluded that he is no longer entitled to be in this world. both the domestic courts as well as the european court of human rights approved to discontinue his life-supporting treatment, including nutrition and hydration, and ruled in favour of ending charlie’s life in absolute contradiction to his parents’ will to seek experimental treatment in the usa. how is it possible that even today, when we designate our era as one which respects the most fundamental values of life and human dignity, the united kingdom does not act in the best interests of its citizens? imposition of switching off the life-supporting treatment is nothing else than euthanasia. together with all those of you who demonstrated your support, i strongly condemn this shameful conduct that undermines values of our civilised society’s right to life and human dignity.
madam president, we all know that. just after the warranty, our tv, laptop or phone suddenly breaks down. service repair is no longer possible because the manufacturer no longer supports older models or simply spare parts are missing. products deteriorate too quickly and consumers are forced to buy new ones all the time, even if they don't want to. it's not just electronics, it's toys, sports equipment, clothing, or white goods, and we can't do without them. the longer durability and better possibility of repairability of the product is therefore not only an element of a fairer approach to customers, but also a partial key to mitigating the impact of climate change. but also to increase employment of small entrepreneurs. i can imagine thousands of skilled craftsmen to repair, and let us be sure that they will be needed in every town. i can also imagine that production and spare parts supply will increase, so i see big advantages here. this can be helped by a uniform product durability marking, for example by indicating the guaranteed durability of the product directly on the packaging or the guarantee of repairability of the product. that's why i voted yes.
mr president, good day to you, mr timmermans. my friend here in the european parliament recently complained that she now has much less work - she is a translator - and that is a direct consequence of the fact that the commission now submits much fewer legislative proposals. i think that's very commendable. this is also good because the commission now has time to deal with the european union's biggest problem - that of migrants. first they came through hungary, then through the western balkans, then through turkey, now they're coming through libya. meanwhile, rescue organizations are the biggest traffickers, because they pick up migrants 20 kilometers off the libyan coast and transport them all to italy. you know what i mean. it is time to reconsider parts of the geneva convention so that the right of individual asylum cannot be misused for mass migration. it was never meant to be. in any case, the solution is not to spread the migrants across europe, but to stop them. and what i do not understand is that france is not being punished for exceeding the deficit, while hungary and poland are being punished.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank both our rapporteurs for this important report. we should make cultural relations with third countries an asset of our foreign policy. with the european union’s increasing presence on the international stage, our actions should rely on the use of our instruments and the regional programmes. i fully support the idea to include cultural diplomacy in the toolbox of our diplomatic relations. we should develop a strategy for cultural diplomacy at european union level. european culture is rich. our action in third countries needs to be more visible, and our communication channels more open. we should enrich our contacts with stakeholders active in this field. i can already see many possible benefits of a developing closer cultural relations with candidate countries and countries in our neighbourhood. we are part of a common cultural framework, and in many cases we share a common history. it could help us to use this soft power in areas such as conflict prevention or as a catalyst for stability and reconciliation. we also need the systematic support of independent media. in the modern world i see them as essential in promoting cultural diversity as well as credible information. we have to be more attentive to truthful information about european values, and we should recognise damaging propaganda and false news.
in writing. i would like to correct mr timmermans' remarks on the revolution of 1956 and the subsequent flight of hungarian people from central europe to western europe. until the second world war, europe was a diverse but unified continent with a culture based on christian-jewish foundations. this unit was disbanded by the communist regime, causing physical and psychological destruction. unfortunately, the damage caused by four decades of separation has not yet been fully repaired. that is why it is unfortunate to compare the few thousand hungarian refugees of 1956 to the mass influx of refugees from the african and asian continents into the eu today. after the events of 1956, some of those who still believed in freedom and democracy left hungary for a better life and a life according to the values that were previously valid in their homeland. the 56ers knew why and where they were going, which is unclear in this case. it is not fair to separate the eastern and western halves of the eu with such untrue statements. it's not a good thing for the unit, and it's not a solution. in addition to solving problems from outside, if we want a better europe, we must also be equally attentive to the needs of europeans, whether they are dutch, french or hungarian, or even in a minority. i am thinking of indigenous minorities whose rights have not been defended by the eu.
in writing. the g20, which accounts for up to 4/5 of the world's gross domestic product and 2/3 of the world's population, will meet this month to discuss important issues of trade, tax dumping, climate change, migration, security, terrorism and other important issues of general concern. i'm glad this summit is happening. in a time of globalisation that brings us many benefits but also many challenges, this is an opportunity to engage in a dialogue for a fairer globalisation and to focus on creating and implementing realistic goals.
madam president, tax and financial fraud is a real stigma of society. they show a gross disrespect for the citizens and a disregard for god as the highest authority who requires honesty. unfortunately, this is especially true in my own country, which has been plagued for many years by corruption and financial fraud of gigantic proportions, even in the political arena today. i am not in favour of too much interference by the union in the affairs of our states. but it is clear that if the state cannot help itself, if it fails and loses the trust of the people, if the government by its shameless behavior gives way to extremist currents, outside help is needed. i consider slovakia a modern, sovereign, successful country, which has been infected by the parasite of corruption and financial fraud, and therefore must be eliminated at every step. i therefore welcome and support the negotiations on a directive on combating fraud to the detriment of the union's financial interests. i believe that they will be of great help, especially to those member states with a legacy of communist regimes, where stealing and lying were common and persist.
madam president, viral hepatitis, tuberculosis and hiv are still the scarecrows threatening the health of europeans. the commission states that it will contribute to improving the situation by monitoring reports and examining progress towards the sdgs. in my opinion, that's very low, especially when you look at how many people die every year from different types of hepatitis. surely, if we know where hiv, tuberculosis, or hepatitis are prevalent, it is desirable to take measures to prevent the spread of these life-threatening infections and not just monitor them. in 2015, i asked the commission to what extent the commission has mapped the vaccination of children against diseases such as tuberculosis, whooping cough or polio. the answer that member states have the power to decide on vaccination policies cannot be satisfactory, because even today we have outbreaks of other diseases that cause death. i therefore join the call for the commission and the council to play a major political role in dialogue with the member states, but also with neighbouring countries, and to ensure that they take responsibility for the fight against hiv, tuberculosis, viral hepatitis and other epidemics.
madam president, i consider the commission's programme to be very important from the point of view of the people of the eu, and it is therefore a great pity that we have not been able to agree across the political spectrum on a joint motion for a resolution. many good proposals, such as strengthening the industrial recovery strategy, but also instruments to implement the paris climate agreement, were not included in the resolution. there are other pressing issues that, if not addressed now, may be too late tomorrow. i see demographics and ageing, low birth rates, poor support for family life and a lack of work-life balance as such acute problems. the elderly are now becoming a burden and an intractable problem in many member states. i therefore expect the commission to adopt a single, coordinated strategy to deal with this problem. on the other hand, there are young people who rightly expect us to support them in their education and in their application to the labour market and in a life of dignity in starting a family. the commission's 2018 programme should therefore also create a perspective for the young generation in a shared europe.
madam president, as member states of the european union, we are the largest financial contributor to the un system, accounting for about 50% of all contributions. so in the european union, we pride ourselves on being the world's leading leaders, setting the pace and the direction, which is certainly true to a certain extent, and unfortunately sometimes that leadership is not something to be proud of at all. in its resolution recommending the european parliament to the un general assembly, the ep once again called for, and even approved, the active promotion of support measures for lgbti people, which i could not support, of course. just this week, we have three more resolutions on the agenda supporting this weird and unscientific lgbt agenda. so i really ask, as it is sung in a song by the slovak singer simona martausová: while this world sings, when teeth should be white, murders are also in leprosy, reason does not always go with age, we are always dependent on someone, and we fall asleep thanks to medicines, what to do with the soul of a man, a man serves a special god, women become men who conquer fortresses. thank you for understanding.
mr president, as many speakers have already mentioned, the situation in terms of freedom, democracy and the rule of law in turkey is getting worse, and it is hard to watch. i want to draw your attention specifically to the situation of christians. even though the turkish government claims to have freedom of religion, on the contrary they have confiscated many churches and monasteries. just recently they confiscated the buildings of tur abdin, giving them to the turkish religious authority which takes care of mosques. i call upon the commission to protest against this and to urge the turkish state to give these buildings back immediately. a country which does not respect its ethnic and religious minorities, and does not respect human dignity and freedom, has no place in the european union. commissioner, i have to say you admitted that democracy and the rule of law in turkey have been violated. these things are in the copenhagen criteria. i therefore call upon you immediately to break off the eu accession talks with turkey.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by thanking the co-rapporteurs, the council and the maltese presidency, as well as the commission, for their very good cooperation during the preparation of this report. the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) is a milestone in our approach to development and migration. we have been struggling to find the right answers to challenges coming from our neighbourhood and africa, from countries affected by extreme poverty, conflict, under-development ... (interruption)
rapporteur. – mr president, please take note of the time that elapsed since i had to stop my speech. we have found ourselves under external pressure from migration flows driven by geopolitical and economic factors. the consequences are deeply felt on a day-to-day basis in many european countries. however, they are only a fraction of the discontent felt in many countries beyond our borders. facing mounting tragedies in countries thrown into conflict or extreme poverty, our responsibility is to act, to address the root causes of this situation and to help to create the conditions for a better life in these countries. it is clear that this will not happen from one day to the next, not even after a year. therefore we need to look for long—term sustainable solutions, solutions which would bring growth, more stability, more jobs opportunities and solutions that would help societies to develop and adapt to the current world. there is no magic spell to solve the problems of the developing world, just as there is no magic spell to safeguard europe from the increasing pressures of migration. we will be constantly challenged, yet we need to try new approaches and propose new solutions. i therefore welcome the proposal for the external investment plan proposed last year by the commission. with this framework, we can promote sustainable investment and tackle some of the root causes of migration in africa and the neighbourhood. the european fund for sustainable development is a vital part of this plan. it provides guarantees in order to stimulate private sector involvement in the socio-economic development of the partner countries. i think this is the right approach in the long term. we need to match our development and investment expertise to enable the eu and the private sector to cooperate. we need an instrument which will operate in high-risk situations where investment would not be possible without our guarantees. this opens new challenges to boost investments and improve the business climate in the most fragile countries. in order to do this we need to stimulate investment in such areas as socio-economic infrastructure, smes or microfinance. once again, i am glad that we are ready to make this fund a reality. it will be a vital instrument to stimulate development in our partner countries and an important tool in our external policies. i hope that its innovative approach will help to improve living conditions in countries where it is needed and address the root causes of migration in the long term.
the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their interest, but especially for the majority support for this fund. i'm not sure any of those who criticized him were even familiar with him. we are facing an important financial and foreign policy instrument to help the sustainable development and growth of countries that are often the main sources of migration. i know that the fund, despite its large financial resources, will not solve all the problems, but it can certainly help to create the conditions for their gradual solution. we talk about private sector engagement to get investments that will help create jobs and job opportunities. i am also pleased that we have been able to reach agreement with the maltese presidency on many issues, that we have created an instrument which should complement the existing financial instruments for foreign policy. the fund will be managed by the european commission, which will guarantee greater scrutiny by the european parliament. i would like to say, in a very general way, that i believe we have reached a good agreement. it needs to be implemented. i would therefore like to thank my colleagues, the rapporteurs, the commission, the slovak, maltese and estonian presidencies once again for their cooperation. thank you very much.
mr. chairman, i'm saddened by politicians who have no respect for history. respect for history is not declared, it is lived. i feel sad for people who want to destroy tradition because they don't feel proud of what their predecessors have achieved. i am very saddened by colleagues who, instead of rebuilding the legacy of european symbols with their own work, want to destroy them. the european parliament building we are talking about here is not a monopoly box that we have accidentally stumbled upon after a roll of the dice. it is the crossroads of our common european past and present. for those who don't understand, history is just a fairy tale, europe is just a market and public budgets are just an excel spreadsheet. we try to explain to the citizens on a daily basis much more complex problems than the european parliament's seat in strasbourg. thank you. thank you.
mr president, i agree with the two amendments tabled by the members of the enf group. turkey should recognize the armenian genocide. i also think that in the interest of good coexistence between christians and muslims, the original christian temple of hagia sophia in istanbul should remain a museum and not be reused as a mosque. however, i could not support these proposals. i am concerned about the situation in turkey. i feel that the most important thing today is dialogue, and therefore we must start first with the issues that we see as key to the relations between turkey and the european union. the purpose of this resolution is, first of all, to remind the turkish government of its obligations and of the treaties in force. only then, after goodwill and relations have been restored, can we try to talk about more sensitive subjects again.
author. the scandal of brazilian meat and its importation into the european union broke out in the spring of this year. but even these days, we have information that it was the united states that completely banned the import of brazilian meat at the end of june after it had refused to allow up to 860 tons of beef into its territory due to public health concerns because the meat contained bones, blood clots and potentially harmful bacteria. i just hope that 860 tons of it doesn't end up in the european union. the eu has the highest food safety standards in the world. but what happened is that we have huge holes in the control system because a lot of bad meat was distributed. in slovakia alone, a post-control inspection revealed 21 tonnes of spoiled meat containing salmonella that had been kept in salt for two years. this meat would have ended up on the plates of children in schools, patients in hospitals, social facilities, but also for guests in restaurants. the food industry is the second most important sector in the eu, employing over 48 million people. the complex food chain still allows for fraud and consumer deception. the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against cancer, and the european union is committed to the fight against cancer. the statistics on the incidence of pancreatic and colon cancers are unrelenting. central europe is the sad leader in these diseases, which is certainly a consequence of poor food quality. that makes the questions we have put to you all the more urgent. what guarantees can the european commission give to european citizens that unfair trading practices in the food supply chain will not be repeated? given that the investigation of the brazilian companies took two years, how could these unfair practices not have been detected by the european supervisory authorities? and finally, the third question. given the increasingly high sanitary requirements for european meat producers, what are the requirements for brazilian producers under the eu-mercosur trade agreement currently being negotiated?
thank you, madam vice president, commissioner, many people know of my commitment to combating violence against women and children. however, i received thousands of emails in my inbox from citizens from slovakia who do not agree with the eu joining the istanbul convention. let me quote briefly from these emails:the fight against violence against women, the assistance to victims, and education as part of violence prevention are among the exclusive competences of the eu member states. accession to the so-called istanbul convention would be a breach of the lisbon treaty and an overstepping of the eu's powers. the full text of the letter, which is also addressed to you by thousands of europeans, has been received by you. but you'll find it hidden in your junk mail. and i consider this to be an outrage. the european parliament simply cannot adopt rules that automatically hide a petition signed by thousands of eu citizens and then quietly delete it. each member must be able to decide for himself how to deal with correspondence from his constituents. so i'm asking chairman tajani to make sure that all of these emails are moved to the inbox before the vote. otherwise it will be difficult to explain that this parliament is really interested in the views of the citizens of the european union whom it is supposed to represent.
madam president, madam commissioner, the istanbul convention certainly has some lofty goals in combating violence against women, but it also has some serious problems. any violence, not only against women but also against physically and mentally handicapped people, children, women or the elderly, is condemnable. and that is why i welcome such legislative and non-legislative tools that help address this form of hate violence - every form of hate violence. in particular, if they are addressed in the member states themselves, which are able to intervene most effectively. unfortunately, the same cannot be said of this istanbul convention, which contains a number of unwanted agendas that undermine the foundations of the european union. i am all the more disappointed by the european parliament's position that it goes beyond its powers and even extends the scope of the convention. in the text, references to post-feminist gender ideology can be found, which inexplicably tries to portray the biological differences between men and women as a social construct and other peculiar nonsense. i call on the members of parliament to vote against. not because of its content, but because of the very fact that it is a flawed legal instrument by which member states delegate part of their powers to the council of europe.
madam president, the eu plays no meaningful role in the north korean crisis at the moment but escalation of the crisis would damage european economies and our maritime trade. europe needs to raise its diplomatic game in the region. we have a successful template, the eu’s role in the multilateral format that produced the iran nuclear deal. as in iran, the eu could be the missing piece that keeps the process alive. none of the other players – china, the us or russia – have that combination of distance and credibility, and what is more, there is a new momentum in eu-chinese relations to create a new international architecture, but it could spill over into security affairs in east asia too. trump’s belligerence and domestic weakness limit american engagement in the diplomatic track on north korea and this creates a vacuum. we should aspire to fill it.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. venezuela is in a critical situation. the country is on the verge of social and economic collapse. the repressive actions of the maduro regime against political opposition, the lack of respect for fundamental human rights and the liquidation of institutions have caused irreparable damage to society. in this situation, the sanctions of the international community are a proportionate response to the repression of the venezuelan regime. the continuous undermining of basic democratic principles delays the possibility of resolving the political crisis and of substantially improving the economic and social situation. we must therefore support confidence-building measures and political stabilisation in the country. the first of these steps should be the release of the jailed opposition leaders and respect for the will of the democratically elected parliament. that's why i fully support the nomination of the venezuelan opposition for the sakharov prize.
in writing. after a year of debate on the future direction, it should be clearer which way the european union wants to go in the future. our common effort must be to improve cooperation between us. individual member states and their leaders must be able to better communicate the results and benefits of the european union's functioning to their own citizens. the concept of the 'core' of the european union is the one we see most often today. all member states must show a common commitment and effort to move closer to the set targets in individual areas, which are very ambitious, and otherwise we will not achieve them by working together. but the basic principle must be voluntary, as it was for joining the european union. deeper cooperation will only be an opportunity, never an obligation. so we should not give any more weight to the excuses of some leaders of the member states that they are being pressured. citizens expect solutions to problems from the european union and it is therefore essential that they receive answers to their questions as soon as possible.
in writing. – this is an important moment for setting our priorities not only for the second part of the term, but also for the future of the eu. the eu has been going through a rough path, yet the way to overcome it is to work closer together. i would like to address one issue you have touched upon. i am glad to hear the encouragement for the western balkan countries, a region aspiring to become future members of the eu. we cannot afford to lose focus of this process. it is in our strategic interest to bring these countries to the union. therefore, i would appreciate if in preparation of scenarios for the future of the eu, we already bring the question of future enlargement to the table in a similar way we do now with brexit. we need to be a clear and predictable partner, not only in the western balkans, but also in our close neighbourhood. the state of the union has to address the questions of our place and critical interests in the external policies. our leaders, including you mr president, have a crucial role in shaping our external partnerships.
in writing the state of the european union address by european commission president jean-claude juncker was delivered in a positive and encouraging spirit. the economy is holding up well, with over eight million jobs created, a record number. juncker confirmed that the european union would expand and take in new members in the near future. for slovakia, this is particularly positive news, as our priority is to make ukraine a stable and functioning country. i was pleased to see that it emphasised the same rules for all eu citizens and, in particular, the same composition of products under the same brand a theme that i continue to promote in the european parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i believe that immediate action should be taken to improve fire safety in buildings for all citizens and prevent a tragedy on the scale of grenfell tower from happening again. firstly, i think that the commission should urgently change the approach to facade testing and mandate the european committee for standardization (cen) to develop one harmonised, large-scale test for facades. this large-scale test needs to be designed to reflect real fire conditions in order to properly evaluate the performance of facades in fire. secondly, i believe that the commission should propose new requirements to test the toxicity of smoke from construction products under fire, and to label those products with the results, so that the construction industry and consumers can make informed choices. thirdly, the commission should ensure a much deeper cooperation among member states to improve fire safety in buildings across the eu. this means collecting comparable data on fire incidents in all member states, using data to identify best practice in national fire-safety regulations, and sharing and spreading best practice to achieve a tangible improvement in fire safety in buildings. the proposed actions are fully in line with the principle of subsidiarity. testing construction products to be used in the common european market is an integral part of the construction products regulation and no additional eu regulation is required to deepen cooperation among member states.
in writing. in the european union, we have more than 5 000 fire emergencies every day. every year in europe, around 70 000 people have to be hospitalized as a result of fires. each year, fires in the eu cause damage that is greater than the entire eu budget. fire not only causes great human and material damage, but also destroys important data, reduces productivity, increases unemployment and bankrupts companies. it has carbon impacts and is a major challenge for the sustainability of energy sources and the environment. we don't know how the building products will behave in a real fire situation. we also don't know how toxic the spores are from their possible burning. over the next 30 years, the number of buildings in slovakia designed for housing will increase by one quarter. similarly, in many other eu countries. it is vital that these millions of new apartments and family homes are safe. the vast majority of injuries and deaths in building fires are caused by the effects of smoke and its toxicity. it is therefore crucial that we have better and harmonised testing methods in europe for construction products that can verify their behaviour in the event of fire. we must be able to provide consumers with information on the toxicity and hazardous materials of certain construction works and insulation systems and to distinguish clearly between products according to their degree of toxicity.
for the ecr group commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that the members of this parliament are looking to the future in their work. it depends on the skills, abilities and knowledge that citizens in our countries will have. my colleagues have mentioned, and will certainly mention, several positive points in this report during this debate. for me, the positive thing is that when we look to the future, we don't forget our most vulnerable citizens. it is clear from the report that, for example, people with disabilities have to be part of the change, part of the training, part of the informal learning, part of the important digital changes that are coming. however, new skills and the opportunities to acquire them must not be limited to young people, but should concern every citizen. our seniors and the very low-skilled would have a chance. we know that this approach to thinking about the future is not a given, and that is why i am voting for this report.
mr president, citizens' trust in the eu institutions is the foundation of democracy, good governance and effective policymaking. the institutions of the european union must therefore strive to achieve the highest standards of transparency, accountability and integrity. these principles are key and complementary components in promoting and ensuring greater openness in the eu institutions and in its decision-making process. transparency and accountability in the area of public expenditure must be consistent with the highest degree of openness . the fact that in 2014 olaf recommended the recovery of eur 476,5 million from the structural funds and we found that only eur 22,7 million was recovered by the competent authorities is further evidence of the need for transparency. i therefore join the call for member states to give priority to the correct allocation of eu funds and to make every effort to recover them if they have not been allocated or used correctly.
mr president, i supported the motion for a resolution because i also consider erasmus+ to be one of the most important and best programmes the european union has. over the 30 years of its existence, the programme has positively impacted more than nine million eu citizens, almost twice the population of slovakia. at a time when euroscepticism is growing in the member states, when young people lack a vision for their future, we need to strengthen this programme even further and make it even more effective. it is important that we talk about its successes, to bring it closer to young people, to educators, because in my personal experience, there are still schools, educational institutions, institutions that have not used this program, also because they did not have enough information. erasmus gives young people every year the opportunity to meet peers from other member states and, in addition to acquiring language skills, is a real bridge to europe for them.
mr president, skills and knowledge are the only basis for our prosperity and the security of our social gains. according to the latest oecd study, 70 million europeans lack basic skills such as reading, writing and arithmetic. this presents an insurmountable obstacle for people seeking decent work for a decent standard of living. the new skills agenda for europe is therefore a long-awaited initiative that addresses the need to modernise european education and training systems in line with the rapidly changing economic and social environment. access to education and training opportunities must therefore be a right for everyone at every stage of life. i join the commission's proposal to urge member states to develop comprehensive national strategies for basic skills with the necessary prerequisites for personal and professional fulfilment. in the strategies, we must not forget to support the professional development of teachers and educators as the fundamental core of the education system.
madam president, when i read paragraphs 44 and 45 of the report, i was reminded of the words of the recently deceased simone veil, who is so often mentioned in this house. in introducing her bill that legalized abortion in france, she said: "no woman is happy when she has to have an abortion. just listen to the women. it's always been and always will be a tragedy. therefore, although this bill takes into account the existing facts, although it accepts the possibility of abortion, its main objective is to control it and, where possible, to discourage women. if an unwanted pregnancy is making a woman's position in the workplace worse, there are a thousand ways we can deal with it. abortion is not one of them, however, because it degrades the value of the life of both the woman and her child. that's why i can't support the report.
madam president, i offer my congratulations to the rapporteur, mr bütikofer, and i thank him for the excellent cooperation on this report. deepening cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations (asean) is in our mutual strategic, political and economic interest. not only has asean become one of the fastest growing regions in the world, the integration of asean countries is increasingly important in terms of security and stability. we should use relations with asean to step up our economic and political presence in this strategically important region. the eu is one of the biggest investors in and trading partners of asean. we need to be ambitious and build on this cooperation. taking steps forward to the strategic partnership would certainly strengthen our economic trade, political and security relations. to this end, it is important to intensify political dialog with asean countries. this is one of the most important messages of this resolution.
madam president, please. in the slovak republic, of which i am a citizen, citizens belonging to the hungarian national minority are again complaining that slovak language police harass them for using their mother tongue in accordance with the laws in force. yes, you heard me right, i'm not talking about orwell's animal farm, but about reality: in slovakia, one of the eu member states, there is a language police, where any citizen can report another citizen for using his or her minority language somewhere, and for this, a fine of up to several thousand euros can be imposed. if you come to slovakia, you see companies advertising on huge screens only in english or other foreign languages. this is against the current chauvinistic language law, but it is tolerated by everyone. but it is no longer the case when the country's own citizens, who belong to a minority group, use their mother tongue, for example, on public signs. i would ask mr timmermans and mrs jourová to ask the slovak government for clarification on this point.
madam president, let me start by saying that now is the time to work together and find the breakthroughs. the united kingdom and the european union must find a suitable way to leave the european union. unfortunately, this motion for a resolution dictates to the united kingdom how to proceed. for example, mr. verhofstadt has refused to continue the dialogue until the prime minister comes with a financial offer. but doesn't mr. verhofstadt know that in any negotiation, the first to give a price loses? we all know that the livelihoods of many britons in europe and also of eu citizens in the uk are at stake. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. slovaks, along with other eastern europeans, have contributed to the british standard of living and must not be put aside. i am confident that my british colleagues will be prudent and wise in their decisions, because any divorce is expensive, painful and leaves scars. despite the departure, we should learn to get along as brother nations, and the division of czechoslovakia in 1993 could be an example.
in writing. the ep also has a say in eu negotiations with the uk and is kept informed of the state of play. this guarantees transparency and, ultimately, the approval of a treaty that will guarantee all 3.2 million eu citizens living or working in the uk all the rights and obligations they had before brexit. this also affects the 1.2 million uk citizens who live or work in an eu member state. i appreciate the work of commissioner barnier, who has very consistently taken on the role of chief negotiator. negotiating the terms of the uk's withdrawal from the eu is not easy, as brexit has serious human, social, economic and financial implications. the irish and northern irish issues must also be at the heart of the negotiations, where special circumstances need to be included in the withdrawal agreement in order to avoid a hard border, to preserve the peace process and to ensure that the good friday agreement is upheld. the most difficult point in the negotiations appears to be the financial settlement, where the eu wants the uk to pay back all its commitments made when adopting the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. in the end, 27 member states cannot pay for the decision of one member state, which was brexit.
madam president, i have been in this parliament for three and a half years and in that time i have tried to point out many times that the eu needs to return to respecting judeo-christian values and to understanding god and the natural roles and roles of men and women in life. on the one hand, the adoption of this report is a pyrrhic victory for me, both of my amendments have been passed, and i believe that we must begin to properly appreciate the unpaid work of men and women who care for elderly relatives or the disabled in the family and whose sacrifice goes unnoticed. on the other hand, although these proposals may help a lot of people and have been passed, i am very unhappy with this report because it is one of the worst we have had here in recent times. they're pushing and bringing back the lgbti agenda, pushing us to approve quotas for companies that are listed on the stock exchange to have more women, or they're simply pushing things like the istanbul convention, which many countries don't agree with. so i had to vote against it.
mr president, first of all, i would like to repeat that we have been standing behind moldova’s pro-european ambitions and have had high hopes for its involvement in our joint projects. yet now i am very concerned about the deterioration of the rule of law and democratic standards in the republic of moldova. we have seen the intimidation and harassment of pro—european political opposition and the disregarding of the recommendations of the venice commission to change the electoral system. it is clear that the changes in the electoral law directly undermine democratic standards in the country. the recent internal political developments in moldova are nowhere near the positive momentum we witnessed three years ago. the implementation of the association agenda is lagging behind and it is clear that it needs to become a priority of the political leadership. i would like to appeal to the high representative and the commission to make use of our external policy instruments in order to bring the country back to democratic standards. we in the european parliament stand ready to support moldova on its european path and its reform process. this can happen, however, only once we see real commitment to a pro—european path and respect for democratic values from the leaders of the country.
mr. president, i consider the forcing of adolescent girls to marry to be an absolutely unacceptable expression of european culture in 2017. but it is also morally shameful that the authors of the resolution and the questions put forward are using a cruel event such as child marriage to promote another atrocity, namely the killing of innocent children in the wombs of women. solving one trauma with unnecessary and brutal so-called "treatment" is simply a recipe for causing more mental illness and it is not appropriate to make it sound in this room. the title of the topic of the debate termination of child marriages is misleading. because i would expect us to talk about how to help the children born of these marriages and improve the lives of the next generation, but i didn't find any solutions offered. this title is a false advertisement. forced marriages are born in closed communities where european law is not respected. i ask then, where are the judges, the police and the state administration? these girls need to be protected. but we want to replace one curve with another, and that's by taking an unborn life. this won't help them, it'll hurt them more. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – there are many errors being used as an answer to this problem. we say that this is something which is being pushed forward. it is not a real solution to suggest so-called sexual and reproductive rights and yet more money for abortions. this is not a solution. you mention the istanbul convention, but this is again a legally flawed document which is not yet accepted by many countries, so we cannot rely on it.
in writing. the issue of ryanair's flight cancellations, which affect some 2000 flights and hundreds of thousands of passengers, could not be left out of the plenary agenda. the european union has particularly high standards in air transport, including adequate protection of passenger rights. the commission therefore considers that the compensation granted to ryanair for the services provided by the airport operator to ryanair and the airlines operating at the airport in question constitutes state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) tfeu. ryanair is europe's largest low-cost airline and enables thousands of families to travel at affordable prices. this year, 131 million people have used the airline's services, which operate in 33 countries. i trust that the airline management is aware of the serious consequences of flight cancellations and will do everything possible to avoid such measures in the future.
mr president, it is a scientifically established fact that endocrine disruptors are substances that have the ability to affect the hormonal system of humans and thus negatively affect their health. these chemicals are often associated with serious diseases, including cancer, obesity, fertility problems, mutagenicity, and various neurological disorders. the european union is fully aware of the seriousness of the risks involved and we have been fighting the consequences of such negative influences for a long time, including in this parliament. many substances containing endocrine disruptors are already banned under current european legislation on pesticides and biocides. as a physician, i consider human life and health to be the highest value and the goal that we should primarily pursue in the norm-setting process. i also believe that, in the context of the legislative proposal under discussion, it is essential to take account of scientific knowledge and to ensure that scientific criteria are consistently incorporated into legislation in order to ensure the best possible protection of the health of adults and our children. the adoption of the criteria proposed by the commission will make the union regulatory framework the most stringent on a global scale and therefore sufficient to effectively protect the health of european citizens. but the key will be a consistent implementation process insist , without which even the best-prepared legislation is an intention, not a fact.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. first of all, a remark: 80% success or 80% fewer migrants is very nice, but we are assuming a figure of one million, so we are left with 200,000. this is probably a record year. if you had 10 million immigrants, you'd have a 98% success rate. so i wouldn't argue too much with the percentages. my question is: are you in favour of the european union setting up camps, refugee centres outside the union, where asylum applications are processed?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to point out that my blue card did not come about as a result of a statement of my own making, but as a direct reaction to mrs niebler. and that's what's going to make this discussion more interesting, which is why you should be more in favor of it. the european council has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. i was surprised to hear about this proposal because i thought it was a good idea to solve the problems of france. the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. furthermore, the idea of socializing people, specifically to make them part of the french society, is a great idea. the european union has a long-standing commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, the most important question is which mandate president macron... (shutting down after one minute)
mr president, i would like to ask you to give me a few words on the subject. i get one or two minutes of speaking time a month. that's the first thing. a blue card now and then. i have reacted very specifically to mrs niebler's speech. i didn't make any statements of my own, and i didn't violate any rules here. and maybe the speaking time could be a little longer.
in writing. the european council and commission representatives discussed the forthcoming european council, outlining four agenda items. the first will be migration, where positive results have been achieved in terms of reducing the number of migrants heading to the eu. however, legislative action is needed to tackle smugglers, strengthen schengen borders and deepen cooperation with the un. i appreciate that the council and the commission are now dealing with the digital agenda, where we need to adopt framework measures to prepare the eu for the changes brought about by digitalisation. the third item on the agenda is security, where we appreciate the peace dialogue with iran, which could be a model for diplomatic resolution of conflicts in the world. the final item on the agenda will be foreign relations, with many topical issues, such as relations with turkey, to be discussed.
in writing. the national budgets of the union countries lose eur 50 billion a year to vat fraud. hundreds of millions of euros are reported in other fraudulent irregularities. this is a cross-border crime where the competences of national investigating authorities are limited. there is no single, independent and effective institution in the union empowered to investigate crimes related to fraud against union funds, in particular serious vat fraud. the council shall adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the eppo is established in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. twenty member states have therefore used the option provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union to resubmit the draft regulation to the council. such enhanced cooperation will only apply to the participating member states. i fully support the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office to ensure swift, efficient and independent criminal investigations. in cooperation with olaf, europol and eurojust, but also with national authorities, it will contribute to the implementation of a zero tolerance approach to fraud against union resources. i appreciate that the slovak republic, which during its presidency worked on finalising the text of the regulation, is one of the countries participating in enhanced cooperation.
mr president, the threat to the security of freight transport in transit has several aspects which we must distinguish. it should be noted, first of all, that the exercise of road safety supervision and the handling of traffic offences, as well as the prevention and prosecution of offences against property, health and life, are the exclusive competence of the member states of the union. however, the field of transport and trans-european networks itself falls within the group of shared competences. we have common rules for the safe transport of passengers and goods. road corridors are co-financed by the european budget. transit simply has a european dimension and the commission should deal with the problems that threaten its smooth running and safety. the adoption of effective measures to increase the safety of trucks is also very important for the near future. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. but while ai can dramatically reduce accidents and increase traffic flow, it is far more vulnerable to unexpected attacks. finally, there is another very sensitive aspect of european freight transit. it is the fact that most drivers are citizens of the new member states. it would be very unfortunate if the union were to hesitate to take measures to increase their safety. i am therefore very grateful to my colleagues who have put this question to the commission and i join them in their efforts to protect drivers and the cargo they carry.
in writing. the report on prison systems and conditions proposes a number of steps to improve prison living conditions and, in parallel, to improve the reintegration process of prisoners. the european union aims to support member states in their efforts to improve prison conditions. by opening up this topic, we can more effectively address, for example, the shortcomings of the reintegration process, but above all combat the phenomenon of radicalisation. all too often, deprivation of liberty is accompanied by living conditions that constitute inhuman or degrading treatment. prison conditions are only one aspect of the overall prison problem. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in conclusion, we cannot solve this problem overnight, but the opening of an honest debate is a sign of progress.
mr president, the fight against fraud across the european union is becoming more complex every year, and many times it seems that fraudsters and criminals are one step ahead. they can exploit the 'diversity' in the current system of legal legislation in individual member states, exploit cross-border trade and divide their business activities so that they cannot be prosecuted in several member states at the same time. i supported the motion for a resolution on the proposal for a council regulation implementing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office and i am pleased that slovakia is among the countries supporting this proposal. every year the european union loses billions in tax fraud that could be invested in young people, in job growth and poverty eradication in the eu, but also in much needed science and research. the creation of the eppo will certainly also make easier and more efficient the work of olaf, eurojust and europol, which do not have a mandate to investigate crimes but are able to detect them and to pass the results on to the eppo.
mr president, the european parliament has no competence to set standards for prisons in the member states. it is a matter of subsidiarity, and we cannot try to determine that. our slovak state prisons have two goals: to re-educate criminals and, of course, to punish them, but to re-educate them. what the union should be concerned about is the personality change of those people who are already in prison and the prevention of radicalisation. they're supposed to change for the better. but what do we see? the spread of jihadism, and that's the scourge of today's society, is causing terrorist attacks on civilian populations, and we need to support groups and actions that succeed in actually changing people's hearts and insides and in positively directing their lives. christian workers and christian preachers see how the lives of prisoners across europe have been changed by the power of the gospel of jesus christ in the past. we need to see this transformation in men and women who know how to help others today, so instead of preachers of jihad, we need in our prisons the gospel with a message of hope and peace, because jesus christ is the one who changes the life of a criminal into a man of peace, peace and love.
mr. chairman, i have to ask you a question. every day, thousands of our citizens travel to other member states for work, education or tourism. many of them use air transportation to do so. these citizens must in any event be sure that they will be able to fly safely, on time and without unnecessary costs to and from their destination. we cannot accept that airlines fail to inform long-planned cancellations in time. we cannot accept that passengers are denied compensation for damage they have caused through their own fault. and it cannot accept situations where people are stuck in an airport in a foreign country, without resources and without information in their native language. ladies and gentlemen, in emphasizing aviation safety and the reliability of air transport, we must above all be concerned with the rights of the people who use it. because i believe that just as we're going to be discussing this week the unacceptable abuse of power by large companies against smaller and cheaper competition, we're going to be discussing very soon the dramatic improvement of air passenger rights because it really is... (interrupted by the chair due to time limit)
mr. chairman, i have to ask you a question. last week we commemorated the world day against poverty. i would like to recall two important facts in this connection. first, the europe 2020 strategy is as ineffective in the fight against poverty as the lisbon strategy was. worse still, more and more people are at risk of poverty despite having a job. second, the poverty threshold is different in each member state. in france or germany, a person with an income of less than 1,000 euros a month is considered poor. this is more than the median income of most citizens in only 12 member states. europe must start taking the fight against poverty seriously. in fact, nearly half its citizens live below the poverty line in germany and france. until that changes, we'll never win against the populists.
in writing i welcome the fact that the views of western and central european countries on migration are beginning to converge. it is necessary to continue negotiations and find an acceptable solution in order to deal with issues that will move the european union forward, such as digitalisation or cooperation in the field of energy. digitalisation will bring us a whole range of benefits, such as growth and higher employment, and global competitiveness. the european council calls on the member states to speed up the legislative process in this area. significant progress has also been made in the area of security and defence, where pesco structured cooperation is becoming increasingly realistic. in the field of external relations, more attention should be paid in particular to relations with turkey and the dprk, where we are not indifferent to the question of its nuclear programme and to compliance with the agreement on the iranian nuclear programme.
in writing. the european parliament could not ignore the bombing of daphne caruana galizia, a renowned investigative journalist from malta. because how can we expect putin or erdogan not to persecute the media if we tolerate the fact that a journalist in the eu can be killed for being too close to government corruption cases? the european union sees itself as a beacon of press freedom, and intimidation of journalists poses a huge threat to it. malta must respond to this terrible act by tracking down and holding accountable the perpetrators to regain the trust of journalists and the public.
on behalf of the ppe group. on behalf of the european people's party, i welcome this report. i think it is important that such a document has been born in the european parliament. i thank mrs post for her cooperation, who can confirm that the european people's party was very active in drawing up the amendments and in the final form of the report. the report is intended to introduce a new approach to roma policy. for years and decades, the issue of roma integration has been on the agenda of almost all member states. different approaches, insights, ideas, strategies have emerged, but unfortunately no breakthrough has been made on this issue. it must be said that the european dimension has not yet fulfilled the hopes that were placed in it, although it must be admitted that progress has been made and that without it the situation would be even worse. the essence of this report is that it focuses on anti-gypsyism as a phenomenon. as long as we fight this phenomenon and take measures that are positive in terms of housing, employment and health and education, we have a chance to avoid the current situation. because when anti-gypsyism is deeply ingrained in the social strata, it is very difficult to make progress in other areas. finally, i think it is important that the central and eastern european context of the issue is also included in the material. i have consulted and worked with hungarian, slovak and czech experts and i am pleased that the issue of roma 'settlements', which are mainly problems in romania, bulgaria and slovakia, has been included and we are calling on the governments of these three countries to develop proposals for solutions.
for the ecr group mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i appreciate the report. i also thank mrs soraya post for her efforts and for the lengthy discussions we had in the meetings on the various amendments to this report. as a shadow reporter, i understand the need to deal with the discrimination that is so crucial to any advanced society. but i also understand it because i have met this community of people in slovakia and i have been able to work actively with them. and i saw all kinds of interesting things. i must emphasise here that we are all equal before god in our human dignity, and that therefore the position of the roma in europe, as well as their participation in the functioning of society, must be given due attention and that much must be done to ensure that they function well in society in each country, especially in our member states. we in slovakia have a big problem. our roma community is huge and we are a small country of five and a half million. we have 500,000 roma who identify as roma. and yet i think this report will have little impact on the lives of roma because it lacks the emphasis on the need to engage, for them. and i see them as an essential part of the solution. they need to know how to be involved in this process. we in slovakia have good examples where roma people took their fate into their own hands and simply took responsibility for their lives and the results came. with the help of various christian organizations, they have shown a great ability to start helping themselves, their weakest, their poorest, and to become people of hope. and not just for the roma, but for the people around them. so i look forward to a time when roma are not a problem, but they are the solution to unemployment and community development and family building.
i'm not going to tell you. i welcome the fact that the report also recalls the historic debt that majority communities have towards the roma. it is important to remember centuries of segregation and prejudice, which have repeatedly resulted in violence, from pogroms to the systematic murder of roma in extermination camps. only by recognising this aspect of the past can younger generations in particular understand the responsibility of the majority to which they belong for the present state of coexistence. its most visible manifestation is the existence of excluded communities in several member states. it is the images of life in extreme poverty that fuel prejudice against the roma, mistrust and a sense of superiority among the majority. the situation is improving, but it's still not good. poverty is hereditary. a child born into true poverty has a statistically low chance of getting a quality education and a well-paid job. the fight against extreme poverty is therefore a fundamental condition for integration. this fight is not just for roma, but for all those who live on the margins of society and cannot get back on their feet on their own. the historical questioning of the conscience of the majority in relation to roma should therefore be independent of practical steps to address poverty and social exclusion. the union and its member states have an obligation to every citizen of the european union to do everything possible to enable him or her to live in dignity. to respect his human dignity. no matter if he is slovak, hungarian, french, roma or german.
in writing. the ees is in particular an electronic database for recording the time and place of border crossing and the duration of stay of third-country nationals in the schengen area. the old 'stamped' way of operating border controls has proved inadequate in the face of increased numbers of travellers, but also in the face of challenges such as increased migration and international organised crime. the new system provides for the thorough identification of individuals based on the collection of biometric data. police authorities, but also other security services, will be given a more detailed overview of the movements of third-country nationals in the schengen area, if necessary. their control will be strengthened. no member state of the european union can fight terrorism or organised crime on its own. deepening mutual cooperation and promoting the development of so-called smart borders are thus essential in the fight against current threats.
in writing the introduction of the use of biometric data of persons at the cross-border crossing of external borders will have a number of positive effects. in addition to more seamless and effective controls at schengen borders, controls on the movement of persons within the union will also be improved and strengthened. this will contribute to increased security and earlier detection of potential threats in the context of increasing population migration. it is important that biometric data are used exclusively in accordance with the objectives of this measure and that the conditions under which those data may be made available to law enforcement authorities in the context of the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism are clearly defined.
i'm not going to tell you. recent revelations in the media and on social networks show that sexual harassment is a problem for europe, its member states, but also for the institutions. as with violence against women, we must not only talk about helping victims and punishing perpetrators, but also about prevention. and the only effective prevention is to teach from childhood to respect the dignity of every human being. perpetrators of sexual harassment often abuse their position and function, while victims who choose to report the act face dismissal, reassignment and a record in their personal file that hinders their further career. as meps we can only appeal to the member states to emphasise in their education programmes the need to respect the human dignity of everyone and to help the victims. but we can do more to help victims and punish perpetrators of sexual harassment and violence on the floor of this parliament. the knowledge that the misconduct will have serious consequences, including a reduction in the victim's salary, would undoubtedly have a preventive effect. at the same time, such compensation would at least partially compensate for the victim's disadvantaged position.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. money, sex and power. this is the godless trinity of sin that stains many leaders and it's a poisonous cocktail that attracts many ambitious people, but only people with complexes. but this one is about machismo, that there are bad men. but i think you want to stereotype it here anyway, because women are harassed, and you know that among the reported cases, even in institutions, there are cases of harassment of women. please don't just talk about men. and sexual harassment happens among homosexuals, in this community, and it's just not talked about. and we have to stop the process that makes men and women objects. objects that we then, in our imagination, use. and it's the explosion of pornography, of no-strings-attached relationships, of the rejection of sexual morality. these are the tragic consequences that we now see happening here. so whether it's the institution of the european union or hollywood, we have to demand respect for men and women as individuals, demand self-control and emphasis on family. because those are the things that are healthy to stop sexual assault.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. this is how the commissioner for transport spoke at the european parliament's plenary session a year ago, supporting the proposal that every young european should receive a free interail network ticket on his or her 18th birthday. today, several million euros have been approved for this purpose. as appealing as this project sounds, i fear that not all the young people involved will be able to benefit from it. last year i asked the commission what it would do for young people with disabilities. many of them need a barrier-free environment or even an assistant. as regards accessibility, the commission referred in its reply to the accessibility directive, which, as we know, is not yet final. and when asked whether the assistant of a disabled young person, who may not be exactly eighteen, also receives a free ticket, the commission did not reply. i would therefore like to appeal to those responsible to remember that, in this project, those who, unlike many of their healthy peers who have no problem paying for their own travel, have not been excluded and marginalized once again.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. any economic policy of the euro area is distorted by the monetary policy of the european central bank. the ecb has already bought back more than eur 2 trillion of public debt, and its amount, its balance sheet total, is more than forty percent of the euro area's gdp. this is a peacetime record. the european central bank is currently buying up government bonds at seven times the net debt growth. in doing so, the european central bank shall not buy-in public debt. at the same time, interest rates are at zero for a long time, putting those who save and manage responsibly at a disadvantage and those who borrow at a disadvantage. the european central bank is beyond any democratic control and commission president juncker pretends that this huge problem does not concern him. while it is nice to deal with the economic policy of the euro area, it is much more important to deal with monetary policy and the workings of the european central bank.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. like my colleagues, i consider sexual harassment to be unacceptable. and like almost every member of this parliament, i believe that we need to do more on the ground in this institution to effectively prevent not only this form of harassment. in my speech in the debate on this subject, i also proposed concrete measures. unfortunately, some colleagues have not resisted the temptation to use this topic to increase political pressure on member states to ratify the so-called istanbul convention. i would like to tell them that the wording that member states are obliged to ratify this convention is false. it goes beyond the powers of this parliament and prevents us who respect the european treaties from supporting this resolution.
i'm not going to tell you. i am surprised that we are discussing in the european parliament the decision of the italian government to increase the number of mandatory vaccinations. moreover, even the initiators of this debate admit that only the member states can decide on the vaccination schedule for citizens. moreover, the precautionary principle to which they refer concerns union policies. in matters falling within their exclusive competence, it is for the member states to decide whether and which principle they will apply. we live in a time when a large group of people question either vaccination itself as an effective method of fighting serious diseases or the effectiveness of the legal obligation to vaccinate. the authors of the question to the commission which we are discussing here belong to the second group. they may not realize that they are opening up the internet to charlatans who can convince large numbers of parents without medical training of their unscientific theories in a short time. their success is confirmed by the declining number of children, not just newborns, who are being vaccinated. moreover, the material referred to by the authors is not a scientific study but only communication material combining vaccination statistics with information on the legislation in force. it's not a study, as they claim, and it doesn't meet the criteria of serious scientific research. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about the crossborder dimension of the risks associated with inadequate vaccination and the need for europe-wide disease prevention guarantees in the context of free movement and migration. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you very much for asking. we could argue about this, but vaccination is directly related to the prevention of diseases and therefore to prevention, which is part of the health care of the member states. so i agree that these issues can overlap, but i think in the context we're talking about, it's a member state competence. thank you. thank you.
mr president, last week i had an opportunity to visit pakistan, and as we debate persecuted christians we need to mention the name of asia bibi, a woman, wife, mother, who has already spent eight years in a prison cell, facing a death sentence for a minor religious thing. we hear a lot in this house about so-called european values and we hear about so-called lgbt rights; we speak about abortion rights; we speak about international rights. and this house is passionate about those rights. but when it comes to those who share the faith of our founding fathers, many times we do not do too much, and this is a sign we are abandoning christianity, we turn a deaf ear and remain silent. so i implore you, commissioner, with all the diplomatic and economic instruments the european union has, please let us make these countries, like pakistan, syria, iraq and some others, hear this. we will not forsake our biblical roots, and we remain committed to those who are suffering because of their faith in christ. i implore you.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, the key to helping persecuted christians around the world is religious freedom. respect for it must be an uncompromising condition for the european union's good relations with any country in the world. but we must also be equally as uncompromising in our approach to religious freedom in the eu. according to the pew research center, restrictions on religious freedom increased in most european countries between 2007 and 2013. pope francis called them "a polite persecution" that masquerades as modernity and progress but robs people of freedom and even the right to conscientious objection. the result is often job loss and other penalties that prevent christians from living in harmony with their religious beliefs, according to a report by a joint project of the university of notre dame, the religious freedom institute, and georgetown university. no wonder the protection of christians in the world has such reservations.
mr president, commissioner, i have tabled seven amendments in the committee on women's rights. two ideas emerged from these in the final report, but they are key to tackling the problems of europe's ageing population. the first is solidarity between generations. even a dramatic increase in the birth rate will not change the fact that the number of elderly people will increase and the number of economically active people will decrease over the next 20 years. the second is to raise families and support them. although the rapporteur refused to use the term family mainstreaming, which we proposed, she did acknowledge that supporting families is a way of improving the demographic situation in the eu. i would therefore like the commission to take these two ideas into account in all future proposals on regional cohesion.
for the ecr group. mr president, for more than a decade the commission has been proposing and the union adopting legislation on consumer protection. it is often the case that legislation is not complied with, the commission proposes new legislation instead of enforcing compliance with existing legislation. the result is 2700 open infringements, i.e. infringement proceedings, of which 320 are in the field of the internal market. the result is that we are turning the consumer into a helpless sheep by overprotecting him. this is perhaps more the case for the member states and their legislation than for the union. another problem is priorities. the commission has too many and some of them are contradictory. consumer protection legislation often unnecessarily complicates the lives of entrepreneurs, while improving the business environment is also one of the union's declared priorities. businesses are often unfamiliar with the law, unable to do so, and legal certainty is low. but consumers themselves suffer. i also understand that in the area of electronic commerce, if it is cross-border, legislation at european union level is needed. i appreciate the rapporteur's effort to seek and find a real and honest compromise. the resulting proposal, in my view, has the potential to improve the enforcement of rules already in place, particularly in cross-border trade. i would like to believe that other changes, such as the minimum powers of national trade inspectorates, will also help to enforce existing laws. however, it is an illusion to think that we can protect the consumer perfectly with laws. first of all, it must protect itself, and it would therefore be very good if the union did not act in the area of consumer protection legislation for a number of years now and focused on improving the business environment.
mr president, we are talking about various crises here, but the real crisis in europe is that we are dying. i am therefore pleased that mrs garcía pérez has come to the conclusion that helping the regions of the european union means improving the living conditions of young people, the elderly and children, so that adults do not have to leave their families to work in other regions or countries and thus jeopardise the development of their families. it is important to build society in such a way that intergenerational family relationships are rebuilt. the european union can help by addressing the democratic crisis by building regional infrastructure, a culture of life and adhering to family traditions. after all, the future of europe is our children growing up in healthy and natural families. where is the mother and father and natural family award, please? why do we spend millions on lgbtq+ projects and not the same amount on pro-life projects or multi-family projects? yes, family policy is a competence of the member states and should remain so, but if we want europe to have hope, we must protect the lives of our children, including those conceived and unborn. so i encourage you to take this path, and we will grow and we will not have a demographic problem and we will not die.
madam president, scorpions are known to live in secrecy. they thrive mostly in rocks and crevices. but when you shine ultraviolet light on scorpions, you can see them clearly, because all scorpions have a fluorescent outer layer, and they just light up. and so it's time to shine a light on corruption and expose the hidden scorpions that lurk in politics and business. the murder of a maltese journalist like this is a clear demonstration of the malignity and the malign corrupt network of evil people who are holding on and helping each other. but it also begins with the inability of the law enforcement and judicial branches to often put good laws into practice. instead, we see frustrated citizens who have a deep distrust of institutions. and my country slovakia can also be considered the flagship of the kind of corruption, clientelism and dirty business that we see in politics too much. but i believe in change, and i look forward to the time when citizens, as well as officials and government officials, will muster the courage to shine a light on the dark corners of corrupt systems. just like daphne caurana galizia was. but the removal will come when honest men, who are willing to take responsibility before god and men and remain honest, are in positions of responsibility.
mr president, i congratulate laima andrikienė and knut fleckenstein on their very good report and recommendations for the forthcoming summit. the eastern partnership is without doubt one of the most successful initiatives in the european union's foreign policy. however, many countries in the neighbourhood are currently going through a turbulent period. we therefore need to have a clear vision of where this project is going and what we want to offer our partners. i believe that the eastern partnership should be about tangible results and meeting the needs of the people of the partner countries. but we must not forget values, whether in the form of functioning democratic institutions, the rule of law or the fight against corruption. i agree with the principle of differentiation in our approach to our eastern partners. this should also mean further fulfilling the principle of 'more for more' and stimulating reforms in countries that want to work more closely with the european union.
mr. vice president, mr. pongu's report is very thought-provoking. he is very specific and knowledgeable about the many challenges facing the future of the eu-africa partnership. i'm very sorry that i won't be able to support her in the vote. the emphasis on sexual and reproductive rights and the promotion of abortion in africa through the european union is contrary to my conscience and the conscience of my constituents. i consider it very damaging that the promotion of the so-called 'right to abortion' has become part of the european consensus on development policy. as a result, those who provide real health care in africa, often in difficult conditions, and who uphold the hippocratic oath, do not receive a cent from the european union, as do abortion clinics.
in writing. more than 218 million people in africa live in extreme poverty, which shows that the eu-africa partnership is an essential tool for implementing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. while poverty is declining, the sustainable development goals, in particular poverty eradication, must be given priority. migration is at the heart of the eu's global foreign and security policy strategy and is a priority issue. if we want to stop migration, we have to give people jobs in their own countries. i welcome the intensive political dialogue between the eu and africa entitled 'a new impetus for a mutual partnership' to provide a new impetus to expand and strengthen prosperity and stability on both continents. as terrorism is a global threat to regional peace and stability, sustainable development and internal security, it must be addressed by national governments, regional and international organisations and european agencies through coordinated efforts. it is therefore imperative to strengthen cooperation within the framework of this strategy, which will have as its main objectives the prevention of impunity, the promotion of the rule of law, the strengthening of police and judicial capacities, using best practices, in order to prevent and combat terrorism.
in writing. the government of each member state of the european union must respect and protect the separation of powers which is characteristic of democratic countries. any interference with the independence of the judiciary threatens the rule of law and the certainty of citizens and businesses in a fair trial. similarly, freedom of the media and the exclusion of their political influence is a cornerstone of a democratic establishment. i watch with concern as these pillars in poland gradually crumble. on the other hand, there are areas in which the european institutions must not intervene. these include the area of cultural and family policy. since the text presented contained interferences in these areas which were unacceptable to me, i could not support it.
mr. chairman, the establishment of tent camps for incoming refugees on the greek islands was supposed to be a temporary solution. the decision to relocate asylum seekers between member states was also to be temporary. sadly, today we see these camps becoming permanent, and their desperate inhabitants losing hope of a normal life. and tomorrow we will vote on parliament's mandate to negotiate with the council, which will include the requirement to make the initially temporary automatic relocation of refugees a permanent part of the european asylum system. let us not allow europe to resign and accept a permanent provisional status. because the price of such a provisional solution is the loss of human dignity and solidarity.
madam president, i did not support the motion for a resolution on poland because i do not agree with the european parliament adopting political resolutions criticising the member states of the union. if a member state breaches its contractual obligations, it is the commission's duty as guardian of the treaties to act. from the alert to the european court of justice. and if the court upholds the commission's view, then this parliament can also address the question of what measures need to be taken at european level to restore respect for the european treaties and law. let us remember that the vote of a democratic parliament is not the opinion of an impartial observer. it's the political opinion of the majority of the moment, and we mps are representatives of our constituents, not judges.
mr. president, colleagues, there is no doubt that we must unequivocally condemn any revolutionary violence. equally reprehensible is the bolshevik-party seizure of power, which always leads to what we call the totalitarian state. but i would like to emphasize, let's not only remember the tragic consequences, but also the equally tragic causes of revolutionary mood and violence. if i look at the lessons of the bolshevik coup in terms of causes, the eu must never cynically leave the fate of entire social groups at the mercy of inhuman market forces. the eu must strengthen its social market character, overcome the neoliberal orthodoxy once and for all. it is this that produces the resentment, the rebellion of those who have been and are sacrificed in this orthodoxy. the rise of nationalism, populism, neo-fascism, but also of left-wing radicalism is a consequence, a negative consequence of the antisocial construct of politics. if we want to avoid a small and big bolshevik coup, we think about it.
in writing. as vice-chair of the committee on petitions (peti), the committee responsible for this subject, i welcome the report of the european ombudsman on his activities during the year. i consider it important that the ombudsman's summary of his work is written in a simple, accessible and understandable language and that it is published by the ombudsman's office in all the official languages of the union. the ombudsman concluded a successful year last year, and eu citizens, including us as members of parliament, can be part of that. the effectiveness is reflected in the high rate of implementation of decisions and recommendations issued following the ombudsman's inquiries. in the peti committee, we follow the ombudsman's work and exchange views on common issues, thus contributing to the resolution of current institutional issues. the parliament's report reiterates that despite progress, improvements remain to be made in the areas of the ombudsman's competence. i would like to stress the need to further develop cooperation between the european commission and the committee on petitions, including information on eu pilot and infringement procedures triggered by petitions. i am particularly concerned about the review of the european citizens' initiative, and i agree with the rapporteur that this is a key procedure, the effectiveness of which and the full application of this eu citizens' right can only be ensured if the commission takes into account the proposals of the parties concerned, including parliament.
in writing. the radicalisation and rise of xenophobia in the individual member states of the european union is one of the consequences of the persistent discontent caused by the high levels of wealth inequality within society. this trend has been further exacerbated by the economic crisis and the subsequent right-wing austerity measures that europe has been forced to face in recent years. the european and national institutions have not yet been able to respond in a strong way to the problem of increasing inequality. lack of support for the middle class and the growing divide between the poor and the rich are proving to be a cause of growing frustration and empowerment for extremist political forces. reducing wealth and income inequalities must be a priority for economic and social policies at all levels. at the same time, it is necessary to monitor closely whether this is being achieved. the measures must also include further employment support, targeted in particular at young people or the long-term unemployed.
in writing. one of the major challenges of our time is the need to address the persisting widening of income and wealth disparities. deepening inequality causes poverty to increase, affects the most vulnerable groups of the population and naturally increases discontent. the creation of sustainable jobs, which not only provide livelihoods but also improve people's overall social and societal status, is a key means of reducing inequalities. but equally important to me is the opportunity to receive an accessible and quality education that will help me to fit in better with the labour market. the interest in reducing inequalities must be a self-evident part of the union's internal and external policies.
mr. chairman, as a member of the australia-new zealand group, i unambiguously welcome the free trade agreement with new zealand. it is barrier-free trade that is the best way to deepen relations between countries around the world, especially those with which we have strong political, historical and cultural ties, and new zealand is one of those countries. as a member of the australia-new zealand parliamentary group, i have met with a number of relevant players and can say that this deal should have been done a long time ago. the commission has been working on this for some time, and i am sure that it will be very useful to the council and the commission in the future. i take this as a joke, since new zealand farmers receive no subsidies at all and, moreover, have to transport their products halfway across the world to europe. fear of such competition is a very weak card for western european farmers. i therefore hope that, following today's approval of the parc cooperation agreement, a free trade agreement will soon be concluded.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the priority must now be on the upcoming presidential elections, to ensure that they are free and fair and that the results are accepted by all political players as legitimate. madagascar cannot afford another slide into chaos. this is the responsibility of the current president. that is the key message of the urgency resolution. but the signs are not encouraging. the current government violates human rights on a daily basis. madagascar is one of the poorest and worst—governed countries in africa. the people of madagascar are in desperate need of governance. neither poverty nor plague can be contained without a legitimate government in place. international donors cannot operate in a state of perpetual instability. that is why the conduct of the upcoming elections is so critical to the country’s future. the eu must put maximum pressure on the government to deliver them.
madam president, yesterday we had nine, tonight we have ten. the commission has also proposed a simplification of the budgetary rules, which are closely linked to this budget. the european parliament and the commission want to ensure that recipients of union funds cannot use shell companies and structures that avoid tax obligations, that use aggressive tax planning, that do not meet the criteria of good tax administration. we are fighting for european money to be drawn by entities established in those jurisdictions that apply internationally agreed tax standards on transparency and exchange of information. the advice on this line is not clear. i think the estonian government has a different view than those council members who avoid such protection of european resources. i therefore ask the council representative to remind the members of the council that if we want to improve the living conditions of the citizens of the union, if we want to prevent the leakage of money from the public treasury, if we want to restore the citizens' confidence in the common european project, fine words are not enough, deeds are needed... (the president interrupted. )
madam president, i would like to commend the work on the 2018 budget, and in particular the chapters on tackling the migration crisis and combating terrorism, as well as the very balanced areas on supporting young people, both for erasmus and for the general programme to promote youth employment. young people need to feel a perspective in the european union and it is really very good that this area has been raised. i would like to draw attention to three points which the commission, in cooperation with parliament and the council, should perhaps take better care of in the future. one is the use of development aid resources, who that money actually goes to, and how that money is actually implemented. firstly, it is better to control the funds that are spent through the cohesion fund, and last but not least - a colleague mentioned this before me - which companies are involved in using european money. are they real companies or are they just shell companies that are stealing money from the government?
in writing. recent events have taught us that european finance must respond much more effectively than in the past to current events that threaten the security and stability of the european union. i welcome the increase in resources for border protection, security and defence against new types of threats. on the other hand, we should not give up on pre-accession assistance to the candidate countries and should continue to pursue cohesion policy and close the gaps between our regions.
mr. chairman, i'll try to keep up with the times. so i have, in addition to the fact that we all want to reduce co2 emissions in the air and we all want a better environment, two questions that i consider to be fundamental to the subject, which is primarily about renewable sources. my colleague has already mentioned before me how we are losing forest cover in europe because we have decided to finance a fairly large purchase of wood and to create, in fact, renewable or alternative resources, and something very similar applies to land where instead of cereals that we can put into the food or livestock industry, we grow crops for biomass that destroy our land. a very important issue for us - and i am a member of parliament from slovakia - and therefore for central and eastern europe is nord stream 2. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner what the state of play is with nord stream 2 and whether the commissioner has considered all the reservations that our countries have repeatedly raised in relation to this particular project, because this project will create differences between western, central and eastern europe. thank you very much.
mr president, disabled citizens in the european union still have to contend with a number of problems and situations that daily life brings. the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is important and member states are obliged to implement it fully as soon as possible. disabled citizens are often dependent on our help in areas that they could have handled themselves with better targeted assistance. women with disabilities are a special chapter and must be given special attention. these often find themselves on the brink of poverty and a life of no dignity. the situation is even more complicated in families where the mother wife is disabled and some of the children are also disabled. so we have to talk about how we have to set some kind of minimum income threshold for these families and these mothers, so that they can live a life of dignity and fullness and that they can provide that for their children. attention should also be paid to the care services that disabled citizens deserve and that are often underestimated. thank you, mr. chairman.
in writing. there are approximately 80 million people with disabilities in the european union (eu), of whom 46 million are women. i am very concerned that up to 75% of people with severe disabilities in the eu do not have the opportunity to participate fully in the labour market, with some groups facing additional types of discrimination on the basis of disability. although access to the highest attainable standard of health care without discrimination on the basis of disability is a fundamental right, persons with disabilities continue to face persistent barriers to equal access to health services, including a lack of available information on health care entitlements, discriminatory treatment by private health insurance companies, inaccessible health care facilities and often lower quality of care that is not tailored to individual needs. i support the resolution because i believe that the eu and its member states should take measures to ensure that all persons with disabilities can exercise their rights as enshrined in the eu treaties and legislation. i expect that the commission and the member states, by putting the proposed measures into effect, will ensure that all persons with disabilities are able to fully exercise their rights and to be included and participate in society.
commissioner and rapporteurs, last week i had a meeting with representatives of the slovak and czech chambers of agriculture. let me explain some of their concerns and questions about agricultural policy. despite our success in tackling differences in direct payments and in the different european subsidies, the single market is still fundamentally distorted by the different forms of state aid and state subsidies at member state level. it would therefore be good if, when we talk about the single market, we thought about how to unify these measures too. another huge problem for our farmers is that they are threatened by supply chain policies more than climate change. the retail chains are really treating the small farmers and the farmers very badly, and they're also playing a huge part in the fact that many businesses are going out of business. and the last thing i want to mention is that the different european aids should not be mutually exclusive and that the fact that we are supporting biomass and growing bio-based crops for biomass does not destroy the land.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, dear mrs becerra basterrechea, distinguished colleagues, i would like to thank you for your support. it feels good to talk about such a positive topic at the last meeting of the year. the joint work within the committee on petitions has produced a report that adds new elements and strengthens the institution of citizenship of the union. i think it is important to draw the attention of the european commission to the need to make citizens of the union, especially young people, aware of the rights and obligations of eu citizenship in a consistent manner, and i also think it is important to provide in-depth information about the role of the eu, not only at eu level but also at member state level. i would also like to highlight the situation of indigenous, or historical, minorities, who are also covered in the report for a few paragraphs. i would point out that one in ten citizens of the european union belongs to a historical minority, and i myself belong to one. sometimes these people, these eu citizens, suffer discrimination, whether openly or covertly, and we all have a lot of work to do to address this issue. and i want to conclude with one final word on brexit: we have received a lot of petitions from the committee on petitions, we have dealt with this issue, and we will also be monitoring the brexit negotiations. the european people's party supports this document. thank you, mr president.
commissioner, sometimes it is difficult to defend europe in front of the citizens when its own parliament confirms their concerns with such reports. the charter of fundamental rights clearly states that the right to benefit from medical care is guaranteed under the conditions laid down by national legislation. however, in paragraph 12 of this report, the commission is called upon to facilitate full access to sexual and reproductive health care services in all member states. it tells citizens that the european parliament does not respect their laws, charter or treaties. i also consider the creation of transnational electoral lists to be harmful. such lists only deepen mistrust of europe. citizens will find that the mps they are supposed to vote for do not speak their language and do not know their problems. turnout doesn't go up, it goes down even more.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, first: congratulations to the republic of kazakhstan on celebrating the 26th anniversary of its independence later this week, on 16 december. with tomorrow’s vote, we will mark an important milestone in our bilateral relations with kazakhstan as we ratify the first enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement in central asia. the eu is kazakhstan’s first trade and investment partner, and i believe that trade with the eu can positively reinforce human rights and the rule of law. there are valid concerns, however, about the state of freedom of media, expression and association in kazakhstan, which must be improved by releasing a number of political prisoners and activists. the epca should serve as a basis for further enhancing our ties and reflect a genuine commitment to democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights. kazakhstan should continue its reform process, which should go hand-in-hand with its third modernisation strategy. i would also like to encourage kazakhstan to follow the venice commission and the osc electoral recommendations. we appreciate and welcome kazakhstan’s increasingly important international role and would like to encourage it to positively contribute to deepening regional cooperation. in this respect we welcome the accession to the wto in 2016. i am looking forward to the further fruitful cooperation with kazakhstan.
commissioner, this parliament represents the voice of the citizens of all the member states of the european union. it represents the interests of those who look to the union for protection, those who associate prosperity with its existence and those who see it as a guarantee of opportunities for their children. but christmas is also an opportunity to think more deeply about those who are prevented from exercising their civil rights by poverty. it is our duty to represent them too, because this parliament is also to be their voice. only then will the community of european states become a real community of all european citizens. in this spirit, i would like to wish not only you, mr president, and mrs commissioner, but also all my colleagues, and all the citizens of the european union, a merry and blessed christmas and all the best for the new year of 2018.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax evasion and money laundering must be a common interest of all the member states of the european union. however, the mutual exchange of information and the willingness to cooperate in this area have, as we can see, large gaps. the inaction of the competent institutions at national and european level, the fact that we are always reacting to newly published information, figures and scandals, all this is causing a great deal of frustration among citizens. especially those businessmen who pay their taxes honestly. we must be honest and admit that not only the box office and vat fraud, which amount to billions of euros, but also the various forms of tax relief for different forms of business, as we see in luxembourg, the netherlands, cyprus, ireland and other countries, do not contribute to good and, above all, fair practices in the european union. a particular problem then is the shell companies, which participate directly in money from the european union budget and in the various projects that the european union offers to improve the environment in its member states.
mr president, despite many improvements, afghanistan certainly cannot be counted as a clear success story of international intervention. sixteen years after toppling the taliban, we are no closer to a negotiated political settlement that would bring lasting peace. what is now clear is that such a settlement must include pakistan, which has a huge stake and influence in afghan stability. so far pakistan has failed to play its part. many taliban militants still have a safe haven in pakistan. this must end. this is also where the eu should insert its diplomatic clout, as a partner for democratic governance in afghanistan, but also as a political power that can help induce pakistan to be more constructive. the eu can no longer limit itself to economic and developmental aid, but must act as a strategic player in the wider region.
mr president, we are facing one of the worst humanitarian and refugee crises in the world. we hear on a daily basis of acts of unprecedented ethnic and religious violence against the rohingya in myanmar. as part of the international community, it is our duty to express our deep concern about the grave violations of human rights, the ethnic and religious assaults, and the displacement of people from the rohingya community in rakhine state. we have to be united in our calls and actions to end the violence against the rohingya and bring the crisis to an end as soon as possible. we should also continue our attempts to bring aid to rakhine state, and to those who found shelter in bangladesh. we need to appeal more strongly to the myanmar government to cease all military actions and provide full access for humanitarian organisations and un agencies in that country. the crisis really deserves our full attention. we see the most vulnerable and poorest countries in the region at the centre of the crisis, and its deepening could reach far beyond the region. we need, therefore, to make use of our diplomatic means on the international scene and within the region, firstly to find an immediate solution to the crisis and, secondly, to tackle post-crisis development.
madam president, my appreciation and thanks to both distinguished rapporteurs for a very good job. i am glad that we have moved quickly over the last year on security and defence policy. earlier this year, we launched the european defence fund and yesterday we launched the permanent structured cooperation (pesco). to this end, i would like to welcome yesterday’s council decision on establishing pesco and the commitments given by the member states. i would like to congratulate the high representative for her work and dedication to this important project. security and defence has once again become the underlying issue of the eu integration project. it is clear that no single member state can tackle the complex security challenges we are facing today alone. in order for the eu to be able to respond in internal and external challenges, we need to step up cooperation, pool our resources and focus on strategy priorities. i am aware that it will take time to reach full cooperation. however, the first projects to come out of the initiative, especially in the areas of training, capacity development and operational readiness, seem to be promising. in order to make full use of this cooperation, we will need to care about the seeds which we already sowed. this would also mean establishing fully—fledged eu civilian—military strategic structures, support from the union budget and trust and cooperation on the side of the member states.
mr president, i wish a happy hanukkah to all those who celebrate this feast of lights. the statement by president trump recognising jerusalem as israel’s capital is basically repeating what the us congress and senate already said with an overwhelming majority in 1995. it does not threaten the peace process and does not change anything about the accessibility of the holy sites, but simply recognises the fact that it has been a most important place for jews for 3 000 years and the capital of the state of israel since 1949. for israel it is a confirmation of what in fact already exists and nothing more. however, we have notoriously seen an aggressive reaction from the palestinian government and hamas. they call for a third intifada, they shout anti—semitic slogans, fire rockets on israel and so on. they attack innocent civilians. so, madam high representative, president trump’s announcement might be seen as politically insensitive, but the response is outrageous. i therefore call on you to condemn this response in strong words and to call on these undemocratic palestinian leaders to react to this us statement by addressing president trump, not israel, to refrain from calling for violence and to restore democracy in palestinian areas. i think this would be a solution.
madam president, libya is in a state of turmoil. in five day’s time, on 17 december, the two-year mandate of the un—appointed government will end. without an official government, we can expect further destabilisation and a rise in illegal immigration, as well as terrorism-related and criminal activity. instability in libya will also affect europe. it is imperative that the eu put more effort into understanding the actual situation on the ground and more resources into the pursuit of peace and stability. one positive development, as was mentioned, is the group of different actors in libya that has come together to form an eu—libya friendship association that will be established in malta in the coming months. it is important for the eu to back this effort, and i make a plea for this.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for preparing a good, comprehensive report. 2016 was a dramatic year with many consequences for human rights. it is therefore of utmost importance that the eu stays focused on the good and effective use of our instruments and diligently puts human rights at the core of our relations with the third countries. this should be echoed by the eu institutions and member states alike. the report puts a lot of emphasis on democratisation and the essential role that the eu plays in this domain. with respect to enlargement and neighbourhood, these regions require that we focus our attention on the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. we must continue to engage with our partners in these countries and pay attention to their political developments. this comprises support to democratic institutions, enhancing parliamentary cooperation and empowering civil society. i especially welcome the mentioning of the essential role the eu plays in election observations and electoral assistance. as election day is the culmination of the life of any democracy, the eu’s support during the entire electoral cycle remains crucial in this respect. following up on reports and recommendations has to be an integral part of our presence in third countries.
commissioner, next year marks the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights, which has been signed and ratified by almost every country in the world. i am participating in the debate on the human rights and democracy evaluation reports for the third time in this parliament. throughout the period, these reports are very similar. it is striking that after 70 years there are still so many countries where fundamental, universal, inalienable and non-negotiable rights are not respected. no wonder they're here. what is the eu's policy? respect for human rights in third countries is not always a prerequisite for the european union's trade negotiations. and secondly, for almost 10 years, as in this report, we have been asking for the legalization of abortion, the termination of the life of the unborn child, despite the fact that according to all international documents the right to life is a fundamental and primary right.
in writing. progress in the first phase was achieved only last week after many rounds of negotiations. the uk has finally shown its willingness to guarantee the rights of eu citizens living on its territory, as well as their family members, in the future. the same safeguards will apply to british nationals in eu countries. such a non-discriminatory approach was one of the conditions for moving the negotiations to the second phase. the other concerns were mainly the border with ireland and the financial commitments the uk would have to honour, despite its departure, in a very rigorous manner. the final transition to the second phase of the talks is expected to be agreed by the heads of state and government of the member states at the european council in brussels later this week. it is essential that british politicians also in the future stop playing the hero and avoid arrogant proposals that would harm european citizens in their own territory and make them second-class people.
in writing. i particularly welcome the fact that the president of the european council, donald tusk, has also publicly stated that mandatory quotas for migrants have proved ineffective and unworkable. we must look together for other solutions which are based on respect for the existing rules. equally important is the strict protection of borders, in which all member states must participate. the pesco strategy, which slovakia has joined, is also closely linked to strengthening european security. since pesco envisages the partial unification of the equipment of the armed forces of the member states, it is not clear to me why the slovak republic is going to extend the life of russian supersonic combat aircraft mig-29, instead of buying new machines. that's the dichotomy robert fico and the secretary of defense should be explaining to our partner. in preparing for the brexit negotiations, member state governments will finally be able to rely on a concrete proposal from the uk. i expect the european council to take the same position as the european parliament, namely that the priority is to preserve the rights of our citizens living in the united kingdom.
mr president, the right to lifelong learning or the right to personalised protection in the event of unemployment are not rights but entitlements. the difference between a right and a claim is that a right, like the right to free speech, costs nothing. whereas the claims are worth billions and billions of euros. this is nothing new. populists across europe, in the years before the elections, promised and guaranteed after the elections, demands that today generate huge debts. best seen in greece. the populists promised a six-month resignation and huge pensions, a lot of rights, in fact, claims, and they bankrupted greece. but spain, italy, portugal, france, they're also racking up record public debt, because populist politicians have promised people things that no one can pay. and it's in greece that you see how hard it is for people to give up their rights and how willing they are to go out into the streets. that is why i recommend to the european commission not to push europe into socialism and bankruptcy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the social pillar is one of the most important tasks that we have to face in this election period. national differences and diversities are unfortunately a brake on the way to deeper cooperation in the field of social policy. no one disputes the need for a stronger commitment to promoting equality between women and men, for example. however, a particularly sensitive and long-standing issue for employees across the member states of the european union is the general inequality in access by employers, especially large companies with operations in several eu member states. as we have supported the posting workers' directive in the past, we would be delighted and expect you to show similar courtesy and support in tackling the often profound differences in the wages of workers producing the same products for the same employer in different eu countries.
for the ecr group. mr president, i thank the rapporteur for bringing this serious and urgent subject to the attention of the house. i'm proud to be able to work here. ladies and gentlemen, children are the most precious and fragile creatures we have, and they deserve our utmost attention and protection. across the member states, there is a call for real action to protect children from the traps of criminals who want to sexually abuse them and destroy their innocence, all for the sake of perverted pleasure. this is a horrible sight. what does it say about our society that some people use their skills to profit from filming children, and even babies, being sexually abused? we are a sick culture and a sick society if we allow these things to happen. the statistics are appalling. every second, up to 28,258 people view pornography. pornography production has become a huge business, trading in nudity and human dignity. the report rightly calls for the prosecution of perpetrators and the protection of victims. i think it is important to require all member states to help the victims of these atrocities. for many consumers of pornography can very easily become guilty of consuming child pornography in their quest for more and more depravity. a good example is the pink cross organization, which works with pornography addicts and former porn actresses. pornography is a new drug. it destroys the integrity of individuals, breaks up families, and has a devastating effect on society. safe surfing is similar and needs to be supported. since 2011, the child sexual abuse and child pornography directive has required us to implement programmes aimed at re-educating and helping to stop sexual offenders and the harmful criminal habits they develop. we can't put this off any longer. our children deserve the most effective protection.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, anne marie, for her very conscientious and thorough work on this report. so are all the shadow informants. they managed to make a comprehensive assessment of the experience gained so far with the implementation of the directive on combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and to highlight possible improvements, in particular in the area of cooperation between member states and in prevention. but i am most pleased with the emphasis the rapporteur has placed on using the term 'child pornography' instead of 'child sexual abuse material'. it's not just the words, it's the very nature of the crimes we're talking about. when the directive was adopted in 2011, i also asked for the title of the document to be changed, pointing out that the term pornography can only refer to material produced with the voluntary consent of an adult. in the case of minors, such materials are by definition a record of their abuse and their creator and distributors automatically become perpetrators of a crime. realizing this, we also accept the seriousness of such conduct and, therefore, the urgency of combating it.
mr president as vice-chairman of the committee on petitions, i would like to say that i consider it important that the committee on petitions reports annually to the european parliament on its activities, as it is the only committee that has daily contact with the citizens of the european union. i would like to congratulate my colleague marias on the excellent document he has produced. i want to mention three things about this. most importantly, i think we feel that the efficiency of peti's work has increased. this is the result of good teamwork, which has led to an increase in the number of petitions considered, despite the fact that statistics show an almost ten percent increase in the number of petitions submitted last year. the second important thing is that we have a growing feeling that peti has a prestige with the citizens. we see this in negotiations, in fact-finding visits, and in frequent hearings. this is very important work with the citizens of the european union. it's interesting to note that the brexit negotiations have not even started, and we have already received hundreds of petitions on the rights of eu citizens. thirdly, i would ask the european commission to pay more attention. sometimes we feel that cooperation is slow. i would ask the commission to show more empathy, because let us not forget that the trust of the citizens of the european union is at stake. i would therefore like to thank my colleagues and the secretariat for their work and ask the european parliament for further support.
in writing. the objective of low-emission mobility must be to promote and deploy safe, affordable and efficient forms of transport that lead to zero emissions and thus to better protection of the environment and public health. the union must, in particular by promoting innovation, seek ways and create conditions to motivate manufacturers to develop and produce low-emission vehicles and to generate consumer interest and confidence in such vehicles. the fight against climate change requires that the union also cooperates with the rest of the world, in particular with the actors of the paris agreement, which are aware of the seriousness of the impacts of emissions on the quality and existence of life on earth, in order to achieve this objective.
mr president, i appreciate every action taken by the european union to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance by shell companies and the legalization of income in tax havens. such action not only damages the existing system, but is also immoral and grossly robs society of the resources that should be devoted to its development, to the development of individuals in each country. the eu countries, including slovakia, lose about eur 60 billion a year in this way. however, a blacklist of non-cooperative tax havens will not help to tackle the huge tax evasion for which some european countries are also responsible. my colleague just named them. if we are to be consistent in the fight against tax evasion as an eu, we must find the courage to look within our own ranks. the absence of such a decision forced me to abstain from voting. i am also convinced that the high tax burden and tax harmonisation are reducing the competitiveness of smes in the member states of the union.
