prime minister. you predicted that europe would face a new wave of immigrants in the spring. you warned of the possibility of a very serious crisis if we do not take shared responsibility. if so, persist and take action. yes, cooperation with turkey is crucial, but it is also crucial to establish safe routes for refugees fleeing to european soil. and we're not doing that today. malta has experience with refugee and migrant situations and i am counting on you to help us to establish a functioning european migration policy. i welcome your initiative on the valletta summit, but i hope that you will also look for concrete solutions to the renewal of the union. we're standing still, practically not moving, if i recall last year. you put the citizen at the centre and you want to address the concerns of the union's citizens, create more jobs and ensure security through so-called pragmatic idealism. i sincerely hope that we can succeed together and, coming from slovenia, a country that is similarly small, i believe that malta has a great chance of carrying out the presidency correctly and consistently.
i welcome the efforts of the european commission to introduce a financial transaction tax. in fact, it's very difficult to explain to people, including business people who pay high taxes, that the financial sector is relatively low taxed, despite the fact that it generates very high profits and that it has caused many of the crises in this world that make people worse off. on the other hand, many do not realize that taxes can be easily shifted. and in the end, it's always the weakest who pull the short end. therefore, the introduction of a financial transaction tax is a rather problematic issue. the consequences will not only be in the financial sector, but the consequences will also be in the real sector, in people who live a very ordinary life. and that's what we owe them. nevertheless, as i said at the beginning, i support the introduction of a financial transaction tax, but we have to be very cautious in setting this legislation. one of the conditions that we must absolutely respect is that it will be a tax that applies to all member states. otherwise, we could have a boomerang and things will move to where they're less taxed, of course.
in writing. a well-functioning logistics is like the oil in the european economic engine and we all know what happens to the engines if the oil is bad or not there. good planning, management and implementation of the flow of goods can achieve several objectives. the 2007 action plan on freight logistics has made progress in many areas, but challenges remain, such as better integration of rail transport, the use of digital solutions, better use of infrastructure resources and greater concern for working conditions. the potential of rail transport is under-exploited due to the still existing technical barriers to interoperability as well as the poor and too slow renewal and upgrading of railway infrastructure, which slovenia unfortunately has little to boast of.
in writing. europe is slowly recovering from the crisis, but social inequality remains very high in some places. i welcome the commission's efforts to address this inequality with the new pillar of social rights. only on the basis of a sound economy, able to respond to shocks and adapt to them, can we build a just social system. a healthy economy will bring about a regulated market with fair working conditions, adequate and sustainable social protection, equal opportunities and access to the labour market. however, while we want to achieve greater unification, the principle of subsidiarity must be respected, which allows member states to regulate themselves in certain areas, such as the minimum wage, maternity leave, social benefits, etc. the european union needs a strong social model based on real measures that are accessible and understandable to people. the commission has covered a number of hot topics in its proposal and it is essential to ensure that the proposed measures are implemented so that they do not remain mere words on paper.
after decades of stagnation and instability, the central african republic is finally seeing increased efforts by the authorities to promote peace and reconciliation. however, the country still faces an unstable situation due to various conflicts across the country. to improve the human rights situation, we need more intensive and effective cooperation between all actors, including the un and the european union. in this light, we must support the work of the international organisation of la francophonie, which has been fighting for years to improve the situation in the central african republic. without its efforts to strengthen democracy and the rule of law (including support for the establishment of a national human rights commission), the situation in the car would certainly have been much worse.
in writing. in january this year, the commission proposed solutions for the development of the data economy as part of its digital single market strategy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems, such as the internet, to the whole of the eu. digital products and services based on data can have a major impact on improving environmental protection and food security, energy efficiency and the development of smart transport systems and smart cities. data analysis improves processes and decisions, drives innovation and improves predictability. the eu does not have a regulated digital single market for data, as there are barriers to the free flow of data and numerous other legal uncertainties, and it has already missed out on a number of economic, social and business opportunities. the data economy can only create growth and jobs if we also use the data we have at our disposal. therefore, we need to ensure an adequate flow of data from both a geographical and cross-sectoral perspective, so that they are more easily accessible and optimally used. a coordinated european approach is essential for the development of the data economy as part of the digital single market and it is important that this also takes into account the right to the protection of personal data and privacy.
in writing. every day and in every part of the world, in rich and poor countries, in all age groups and all social classes, women and girls face violence, especially by men. female genital mutilation includes all alterations and injuries to female genital organs for non-medical purposes and is one of the most serious human rights violations, as it causes serious health complications, including fatalities. according to the world health organization, between 120 million and 140 million women are affected each year, and 3 million girls are at risk. this reflects deep-rooted gender inequalities and represents an extreme form of discrimination against women and girls. at the same time, their right to safety and their right to life are severely violated when this inappropriate behaviour leads to death. in order to prevent and eradicate female genital mutilation in the long term, systematic and coordinated action is needed, involving and empowering entire communities to launch a clear social dialogue based on the protection of human rights and the promotion of gender equality. regardless of the nature of violence against women and girls, strong political support and training of society to address the problem is also crucial to put a definitive stop to the perpetrators and ensure safety, equality and dignity for women and girls worldwide.
the reporter. we have here the report on the implementation of the erasmus+ programme, the umbrella programme in the field of education, training, youth and sport, which was formally established on 11 december 2013 and started operations in 2014. the report was adopted by the committee on culture in november 2016 by a respectable majority. i would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to all the co-rapporteurs from the political groups who have contributed to the report and have added to its content. but this report has branched roots. individuals, ngos and educational institutions working on this issue across europe, including in practice, also contributed to the content. this breadth also seemed useful to me in drafting the report, because the relatively early preparation of the report and the short timeframe for implementing the programme meant that i could not use the results of official research and analysis, which simply did not yet exist. the european parliament has carried out two studies and the commission has made available all the information it has so far gathered on the operation of this new ferry programme, which enjoys an extremely high level of support among the european public. thank you again for the assistance of the expert services of parliament and the commission. erasmus+ is known to have been created by the merger of various predecessor programmes and is therefore extremely complex. therefore, simplifications mainly related to the digitisation of application procedures and projects are welcome. at the same time, we emphasise the integrated approach, since erasmus+ also brings together established programmes such as youth in action, erasmus mundus, erasmus, grundtvig, comenius and leonardo da vinci). despite the horizontal integration that has been established, the commission has been able to decentralise the programme functionally and to transfer competences or greater competences to the national agencies. the overall visibility of erasmus+ has increased, and the most important conclusion of the report is that the programme is working well, that it has brought a number of innovations. but there are also weaknesses that will need to be overcome gradually. for example, stakeholders sometimes complain that there are still too many bureaucratic obstacles, that the new information and communication technology is not the most user-friendly, that inter-departmental cooperation is not as intensive, that the success rate in some parts of the erasmus+ programme is significantly too low, and so on. but the biggest problem is the gap between the potential of erasmus+, which is reflected in the large number of applications, and the real financial possibilities. in some parts of the programme, as many as three quarters of projects (or applications) are rejected, even if they are of good quality, because there is simply not enough money. the 40% increase in the budget in this financial perspective will not be felt in reality until this year. this will increase the absorption capacity of erasmus+ over the next four years, so that by the end of 2020, 4 million people, mostly young people, are expected to benefit from erasmus+. in the next financial perspective, we will have to increase the budget for this programme because of its invaluable positive effects.
the reporter. thank you all for a good discussion on erasmus+. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we are dealing with an implementation report and that it cannot radically change the situation. but we can improve them step by step, and the european commission will prepare an interim report later this year and, on the basis of its own findings, be able to address any shortcomings gradually. the new european programme erasmus+ therefore enjoys the warm support of all the european institutions, and in particular of parliament, and i have no doubt that tomorrow's vote will be a positive one. so in that short period of its life, we have, of course, increased its budget considerably and we have solved some of the technical problems, like... like simplifying the application process, making it easier for smaller organisations to access the programmes. cross-sectoral cooperation has improved, greater decentralisation has been introduced in the operation of the programme, and the positive responses of participants in the programme and the increase in interest in participating in it are particularly important. therefore, the gap between the limited budgetary capacities and the broad potential of the programme will need to be further addressed in the future. finally, i would like to conclude by acknowledging that in reality erasmus+ is gaining ground and thus represents an invaluable added value for the future development of the european union in personal, social and economic terms.
in writing. erasmus+ is one of the european union's most successful programmes, and in addition to promoting the skills, employability and reducing the risk of long-term unemployment of young europeans, it also encourages active citizenship and social inclusion of young people. these are all values on which we must build, especially at a time when the european union is facing the greatest crisis since its foundation, reflected in the decline in citizens' trust in the eu. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to increase the amount by eur 200 million by the end of the current multiannual financial framework.
in writing. at the moment, there is no binding european framework for the recognition of crossborder adoptions. the existing hague convention only provides for a system of administrative cooperation where adopters and children do not reside in the same country. both the right of european citizens to family life and the right to free movement are top priorities for the european people's party and the slovenian democratic party. i strongly advocate that the eu provide a clear legal framework that would make life easier for many families. it seems unacceptable to me that parents who move abroad, for example, should have to prove again their right to custody of their children, which can happen when they register for school or arrange health insurance. the european certificate of adoption is therefore a good proposal that would save many families unnecessary bureaucratic procedures. we have heard a lot of debate in parliament on the issue of the subsidiarity of member states in the field of crossborder adoptions. in this context, it is important to note that the family law legislation of the member states will continue to be respected. legislation could prevent the unnecessary complications of many families, and also ensure respect for the right of the adopted child to a stable legal position. this is what we do for the children.
the european union is not a union with a strong military to intervene in conflicts. but it is the largest contributor of development aid worldwide. it is therefore important that policy is coordinated to focus on key issues. and the issues of the next decade are certainly related to poverty. with poverty in that part of the world where the greatest population growth is predicted, namely africa, and also in cities in general. so the problems of water, food, the environment are going to be the key ones, and it is right that the policy is very much aligned with these objectives. policies must also be geared to creating new jobs, because with new jobs we will restore dignity and eradicate poverty in the areas where we have the greatest sources of migration today. i myself am in favour of the european union continuing to invest a lot of money in development aid rather than in addressing the consequences of the various conflicts and problems in these countries.
competitiveness is therefore one of the essential elements of the single market, but this unity must not, of course, neglect important elements, particularly in the field of working conditions and labour law. because apparently competition is also becoming one of the main generators of so-called redundant work, which puts many young people in a desperate and hopeless situation. then there is the question of the competitiveness of the directive on so-called posted workers, which is also being prepared by the european commission, which again calls into question the rules of competition on the one hand and the protection of employment relations and, of course, social security on the other. and we naturally expect the commission to take a strong stance on those elements where there are illegal cartels, monopolies, as my colleague has already pointed out. first of all, we expect a clear answer on monsanto and bayer and other issues with the seeds, because if this becomes... (the chair interrupts the speaker) then europe is in trouble.
more than ever before, after 60 years of european integration, we need a decision on a strong europe. first we must unite on what we want, or we will be advocating a strong europe, a europe built on european values. because we know that a healthy economy is essential to maintaining the european social model and that rights go hand in hand with responsibilities. tomorrow we will discuss the future of the european union. let me say that eminent slovenian jurists have submitted a new draft european constitution, based on the belief that the european union can only be a balanced union of national states, their civil societies and market economies with mutual respect. i am glad that the initiative came from my country, slovenia, which is one of the smallest members. the solutions proposed may not be acceptable to all, but i invite you to read them.
lies and half-truths are the kind of fake news that sell more and more like a solid argument. we're becoming a society that doesn't want to hear data, numbers. the same is true of those opposed to the eu-canada free trade agreement. so let me repeat a few truths about ceti. ceta maintains high european standards in the field of food safety. ceta does not allow the use of race hormones and antibiotics in livestock farming. imports of beef and pork are quantitatively limited by quotas. ceta does not affect the sowing of genetically modified organisms. ceta will help european smes in particular. the vast majority of customs duties will be abolished. smes will be significantly better protected in international investment disputes. in slovenia, where i come from, the canadian bombardier has an aircraft service center in brno. canadian magna is planning a major investment in slovenia. ceta will also provide new jobs in slovenia.
exactly one hundred years ago, the austro-hungarian emperor franz joseph died. it was a time of savage war, a time of centrifugal forces, of the disintegration of states, of the birth of new totalitarian and authoritarian systems, of the slaughter of tens of millions of people. in the west, at least, the culture of life, the culture of peace and the culture of prosperity prevailed when the union was founded almost 60 years ago. but unfortunately not permanently. the crisis of recent years has reversed the course of history extremism is again in. may today's discussion inspire reflection on our common destiny. there's not enough of us to share. together with the americans, we're less than 10% of the global population. maybe it's better for the union right now if we keep the ball down. rather than continuing to build new and new structures and common policies for the european union, it would be more useful to consolidate european belonging, commitment and identity. only on such a solid foundation can we build for the future.
the debate should, as originally intended, focus on the construction of illegal israeli settlements in the occupied territory of the future palestinian state. because of the usual balance of power in this house when it comes to relations with israel, because of the black-and-white treatment of all issues relating to the palestinian problem, we have put this debate in a broader contextual context. this cannot overlook the fact that accelerated settlement construction is detrimental to the prospects for peace, to the future of young israelis and palestinians, and ultimately to the security of the state of israel. israel will secure its security and recognition, as will all nations of the world, by respecting the rights of others, by extending a hand of cooperation to its neighbors, and by respecting international law. i'm glad that in the last few days, the american president has also made it very clear that he believes that this is the only way to peace for both israel and stability in the middle east. the unresolved palestinian issue is a constant threat and fodder for extremists of all colors and nationalities.
so first of all, i would like to thank mr fleckenstein for the excellent drafting of the resolution, for all the effort and work he has put into this report, and it has been very constructive and instructive to work with him. as the rapporteur has already pointed out in the text of the resolution, albania is making steady progress on eu-related reforms. there is of course still much room for improvement, including in the area of reforms concerning the fight against corruption, media freedom and, of course, administrative capacity. however, i would also like to draw attention to the environmental perspective as a green mep, especially as i am concerned about the european commission's data that 44 out of the 71 hydroelectric power stations planned for construction in albania are planned in environmentally protected areas, including, of course, the vjosa river, and i would like to draw particular attention to this.
i would like to express my sincere appreciation and thanks and congratulate mr fleckenstein on his excellent report. on the other hand, the albanian government and all those working in albania, for the progress that has been recognised in this report. progress, which the commission has also noted, is creating the conditions for opening the first chapters in the pre-accession negotiations. continuing constitutional and judicial reforms, as well as fighting corruption and crime, are the key tasks that albania must do in the coming years, and through the process of approximation to the european union is the best way to make the democratization of the country, on the one hand, on the other hand, to improve cooperation in the region, as well as to create, through the berlin process and the like, better conditions for the activity of young people. i am pleased that the berlin process now has an organisation that will look after the participation of young people in the entire western balkans region, and that this creates the conditions for improving the situation in the whole region.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. so, first of all, i would like to thank the reporter, mr predi, and the other colleagues, the shadow rapporteur for their cooperation, for the effort put in and for the drafting of the text of the resolution on the progress of bih in 2016. bosnia and herzegovina is a country that is not an easy story, it faces many problems, many problems, but it is not as hopeless as it sometimes tries to appear. of course, there are also problems in the area of corruption, in the area of freedom of the media, of expression, also of course very pressing problems, such as the high unemployment rate and the bad economic situation in the country, which consequently leads to a great confusion of the mind. and i think it's also our duty to help find solutions to keep this precious workforce at home. it is true, of course, that bosnia and herzegovina is a country that is almost unrivalled in terms of organisation, a country of compromise, and i think that, of course, with this resolution we are also sending certain signals to bosnia. but i think, of course, as has been pointed out for some years now and as the commissioner and some of our colleagues have clearly stated, that there is still, so to speak, a division of ethnicity in bosnia as a criterion for participation in power, and here i would like to refer once again to the sejdić-finci judgment, which must of course be implemented as soon as possible in practice (the president interrupted the speaker) by all bosnian citizens. (the president replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for asking. i agree, of course, that peace is one of the most important values in bosnia and herzegovina, and we must all support it. but i would like, of course, that all citizens of bosnia and herzegovina participate in this participation, progress and cooperation for this lasting peace, under, of course, the same conditions, and that therefore all also have the opportunity to participate and participate in society and, of course, in government. and i think that would be a big step forward, too. but above all, dialogue, tolerance and cooperation are important.
i want to say a few words about the single market and the rules of the single market. i am glad that we all agree that we have already done a lot, but unfortunately we have never reached the goal of a truly living single market. recent actions by individual nations confirm that we are even drifting away from it. changes in the environment cannot be an excuse to leave the market fragmented and to excuse violations. despite the removal of tariff barriers in the single market, a very large number of non-tariff barriers still exist. this in particular hampers crossborder activities of smes, disproportionate administrative requirements, inspections and sanctions represent a departure from the achievements of the single market. there are many examples, and i'll mention one last one. at the beginning of the year, austria adopted legislation that severely hampers the operation of companies from other countries. i therefore support the call for the commission to take decisive action against protectionism by member states. member states should refrain from discriminatory measures such as trade, labour or tax laws that distort competition. so the rules are clear, only some people don't follow them. the union is reacting too slowly or not at all because we do not have enough shared criteria. different standards and regulated professions also apply all of which are barriers to our single market. and as long as they exist, europe's potential to boost growth, jobs and competitiveness will remain untapped.
in writing. today, the european parliament has abandoned the european people and put corporate interests and uncompromising capitalist logic at the forefront, trampling on our social and labour rights, public health, food standards, natural resources, the fundamental principles of democracy and the rule of law. the european democracy temple thus completely ignored one of the largest mass civil uprisings to date, which brought together millions of citizens, ngos, trade union representatives, local communities, experts and others, but all this was clearly not enough. such a move is all the more worrying at a time when people increasingly feel that they are not making any decisions and that key decisions are being made far away, especially in the all-powerful centers of capital. is it not high time that the voice of the people, which is clear here, is heard on matters so vital to our future? i myself voted against an agreement which pursues a narrow and all-encompassing trade policy and threatens the fundamental tenets of our society, rather than pursuing a fair and transparent trade policy which does not play with the destiny and rights of people. i now call on the parliaments of the member states to listen to the citizens in the ratification process and to withdraw their support for ceta. it seems that national parliaments remain the last bastion of european standards and european democracy.
in writing. i support ceta because i believe it is a modern agreement that offers a very good basis for cooperation without the risk of lowering european standards. i'm not just judging this on the basis of general estimates, but on the basis of my detailed review of the agreement. i understand people's concerns about maintaining european standards, vested rights and corporate influence, but there is no need to worry. over the past year, it has become clear that opposing ceti is not so much about content that many people don't even know about, but more about opposing globalisation and the spread of populism. it would be dangerous for the eu to become economically closed in on itself. for example, the removal of customs duties will make it possible to buy products on ebay at no extra cost. diplomas obtained in slovenia will be valid without additional verification, and companies seeking opportunities by exporting to the canadian market will operate with fewer bureaucratic obstacles. protectionism, monopolies and isolationism in a global world do not produce positive results, but on the contrary cause irreparable damage to the economy and the well-being of european citizens.
so ceta is not in the interest of the people, it is in the interest of the capital that rules politics, and that's what today's vote showed. today the european parliament has failed the europeans who have been protesting loudly, here in the european parliament, against agreements which also threaten the environment, which in fact affect the future of generations yet to come. and, of course, with arguments that don't hold up. such an agreement will not bring economic growth, and even more so, from the experience that canada has with a similar agreement with america, it means job losses and risks in many areas, including environmental, labor and social rights. it is now the turn of the national parliaments, and i hope that slovenia will be among them, to put itself on the map as the buffer of the future of our generations.
we are all victims of terrorism and, above all, victims of the fear of terrorism. and it is our duty as responsible people and as individuals not to spread fear of terrorism in a way that can, of course, provoke a counter-reaction. i welcome, of course, the directive which will increase the exchange of information and cooperation, including between security services. i have, of course, some reservations about the definition of new crimes, because this is a sensitive subject which actually affects human rights, and many times in history different and ambiguous interpretations of crimes have also given rise to abuses. so we have to be very clear here and, of course, extremely precise. the powers of the various law enforcement bodies are also being strengthened, and i would just like to point out that security and human rights are not opposites but allies, and that is why we must provide a legal framework.
on behalf of the s&d group. we have here a report on changes to the border rules which introduce a strong tightening of controls on all travellers crossing the external borders of the union. in addition to systematic identity checks, we're also introducing mandatory checks for all passengers against potential threats in databases. my political group is not happy with the result. the new border rules also have their shortcomings and unbalanced security threats. the systematic review rules will be waived in very limited cases we wanted more flexibility. i wonder how effective the new controls will be in terms of the border police's ability to carry out checks, especially at airports. in slovenia, we will probably see long lines on the border with croatia this summer, where many people go on holiday. in just a few months, the number of crossings reaches several million. how quickly a small country like this can find itself in a very difficult situation. on the one hand, we are taking new and new measures to tighten controls due to security threats. on the other hand, you are extending internal border controls, for example between austria and slovenia. and slovenia has already protested to the european commission. so how do i explain to my citizens that the state can become a pocket, with the passage of the state requiring several hours of waiting due to new rule changes at both the northern and southern borders? i certainly support the measures to increase security. but i want them to be more balanced going forward, not just to make the borders more resilient, but to stay or become even more friendly to all the passengers.
we all want our citizens to be safe, so that there is effective protection against terrorism. this regulation is probably necessary, but the question is whether it is a sufficient condition for what is supposed to be defence against terrorism. and checking citizens at all the eu's external borders to prevent terrorism seems to me to be a rather complex measure, particularly in terms of its implementation and in terms of technical preparations, the exchange of records, everything that is needed to do this. but it is important to know that the terrorists who carried out the attacks in paris and elsewhere did not come from outside, they are here with us. and that's why i think it's important to have a sense of proportion here. but above all, i would say that if this measure were effective, would you, commissioner, ask the member states to tear down the walls of the internal borders, to remove the wires and thus to free the movement of goods, services and people in accordance with the constitution of the european union?
mr president, while i agree with the general objective of harmonising the definition of terrorist offences at european union level, i believe the directive contains also many flaws and challenges. firstly, i am concerned about the definition of terrorist offences in article 3 since they include the destruction of infrastructure likely to cause major economic loss. i am also alarmed by article 5 on public provocation to terrorism, which criminalises the indirect provocation to commit terrorist offences. finally, i am also critical of article 9 on the criminalisation of travelling. i still do not see the point of criminalisation of travelling in itself, since other offences are enough to prosecute suspected foreign fighters. i think, in that case, we are going too far and we need to have more clear definitions.
i think that, although this resolution was approved by a narrow majority today, it is right that we should also start talking about the future of the european union in terms of redefining the institutions, because what we have today has shown itself in a time of crisis, both economic and, of course, migratory and crisis of values, as an organisation that needs to be revitalised, needs freshness, and therefore i think it is appropriate to also open up the subject of what the future role of the european parliament will be, especially in relation to the commission on the one hand and in relation to the council on the other. it sometimes seems relatively strange from the outside that, of course, the council can have a significant influence on the decisions of the parliament and also, when the parliament votes on certain laws, it always needs, of course, the consent and approval of the european council. and here the question of the role of national parliaments is raised in particular and needs to be discussed.
mr president, i have really tried to understand president juncker’s approach today, but i have to say that i have difficulties. i am not sure if it is the right one. you have spoken about five scenarios, mr juncker, and you are actually referring the decision to the national capitals. i know that the commission does not have the power to discuss levels of integration but i think that, more than ever, we need clear leadership, with vision and concrete proposals. i agree with you that we need a sincere, open dialogue with our citizens and collective motivation but, again, i hope that the way you choose today is the right one. my strong vision is like yours: to have a europe that is not divided; to have an open and modern europe, peaceful and with real security and wellbeing for everyone. one thing i would like to say is that the biggest priority for socialists and democrats is the asylum system, with genuine reform of the dublin arrangements, and i do not see that as an absolute priority of this commission. also, when we speak about immigration, we need a system truly based on solidarity. we have to go back to a fully restored schengen and not have border controls: there are no grounds for having them introduced.
there are two paragraphs in the summit conclusions devoted to migration. i trust and support your efforts, mr commissioner, and if i go back to the agreement with malta, it is imperative that it is implemented. in particular, we need to improve the humanitarian situation in libya in close cooperation with the international refugee organisation and the united nations high commissioner for refugees. we cannot allow libya to become a pocket. if war breaks out there, we will witness another humanitarian catastrophe. and cooperation with libya's southern neighbors is essential. in this context, i should also like to mention the western balkans before the summit. we must not forget the countries along the western balkans migration route. capacity building needs to continue, regional cooperation needs to be strengthened. the union must be a key player in maintaining the fragile political stability in the western balkans. this is our immediate neighbourhood, with many challenges, and that makes the visit of eu foreign policy chief federica mogherini to the western balkans all the more important.
on behalf of the s&d group. the tens of thousands of missing migrant children we are talking about today are the result of criminal gangs and a dysfunctional asylum policy of the european union. we have strict and binding rules for member states when dealing with asylum seekers, especially unaccompanied children. but that's the theory. in practice, the system does not work. we have a very poor exchange of information, a disagreement on how to modernize the asylum system. the treatment of unaccompanied children varies from country to country. some countries do not even have institutions to take responsibility for these children. all these areas are in a state of confusion. we're enforcing the dublin regulation by sending helpless children back and forth across europe in packages. the measures that are supposed to protect minors, to provide them with the security that brought them to our soil, are actually driving them to flee. they force them to flee, they disappear. open a newspaper or the internet. for the past two years, the same story has been written about this problem. however, no progress has been made at union level. why isn't there a plan of action? why are juveniles not a priority? and the oral question from my colleagues is specific enough. so i expect more specific answers. but above all, i demand a plan to rescue these children and its consistent implementation.
in writing. mr president, thank you very much for your speech. i am saddened by the fact that women who are equally qualified and do the same work as men still receive a lower income. despite all the eu's efforts, the average wage gap is still 16.1%, with considerable differences between member states. here, slovenian women have an advantage over other european women, as the wage gap in our country is the lowest. however, the consequences of the gender gap created in the field of employment should not be underestimated. if there were indeed equality in the labour market, we could also as a society tap into the many potentials of both genders and this would ultimately also lead to higher gdp growth in all individual member states and in the eu as a whole. this is why we must continue to advocate for the concept of equal employment and pay transparency. this is the only way for the eu to put into practice the principles to which it has committed itself in the treaty.
decriminalizing domestic violence is a huge step backwards. and women are made more vulnerable by this. this is also a major departure from the european union's stated goals on gender equality. the european commission's strategic partnership for gender equality 2016-2019 identifies five key areas of action, including the promotion of gender equality beyond the borders of the european union and the fight against violence, and we therefore have a duty to strongly condemn all violence, wherever it occurs in the world. what's funny is that the amendment in question was proposed by a woman. this case is a clear indication that domestic violence is closely intertwined with the views of society and tradition. we must therefore continue to work to raise awareness of victims and to take preventive measures, and to teach girls about zero tolerance for violence, since the attitude towards women is largely dependent on family upbringing. if we bow to russia's intention, which is in conflict with international human rights commitments, we are violating our own commitments, because concern for women's rights and their dignity is also a fundamental condition for peace and security in the world.
mr president, i want to congratulate the colleagues who negotiated this compromise, which i am prepared to support. i very much welcome the fact that we will be voting on the draft regulation tomorrow, because the handling of a dangerous substance such as mercury, for example, is precisely the case where it is appropriate that uniform rules should apply throughout the eu, so that each country does not have to deal with this issue on its own. this is in the interest of both public health protection, the producers themselves, the companies that use mercury in their production, and the legal certainty of all eu citizens. i very much welcome the fact that the final proposal is different from what the european commission has put forward and that it addresses a whole range of issues that were not addressed initially in the european commission. on the one hand, we must protect our health, limit our use of mercury and eliminate it in the future. on the other hand, we need to set up rules that do not harm companies, industrial enterprises that use mercury in their production processes, in short, in their technologies, mercury comes into contact. jobs must also be protected and this arrangement, through its transitional periods, clearly allows undertakings to adjust their technologies, their production and to stop producing or using mercury in the future without leading to the closure of production processes and the loss of jobs. i also welcome the compromise on dental amalgam. it seems very balanced to me. the first priority is to protect vulnerable groups, children, pregnant women and eliminate amalgams in the future. here is the commission's important role: to present a plan for the future elimination of mercury in dentistry.
therefore, mercury emissions are recognised as a global threat warranting action at local, regional, national and global levels, and this report we are adopting today should be seen as part of a global effort to reduce the risks of mercury exposure. i would also mention the mercury programme of the united nations environment programme. of course, there are also many environmental and social problems associated with the closure of mines and the release and leakage of this mercury into the environment. i support the report on the table, particularly on the key instruments and also on the protection of dental amalgam, waste, use, export and, of course, the appropriate safeguards.
so this proposal before us is certainly a major step forward, which is necessary, but the question is whether it is sufficient. it is also focusing on the participation of shareholders in public limited companies, who should be encouraged to become more active, to participate in the management of companies, but they will not be able to do so unless greater transparency is also ensured, and thus greater accountability for those who take the decisions that brought almost all of europe into the financial crisis a few years ago, also because of the large commitments they made without taking account of the risks in the field of financial mathematics. i therefore think that greater scrutiny should be provided, greater scrutiny should be provided for the establishment of accountability and, consequently, greater transparency for the actions of shareholders, so that they can actually achieve what is the purpose of public limited companies.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. so, if the objective of this draft directive was to combat terrorism effectively, i am afraid that this objective has been misguided. gold because this fight has focused on the wrong stakeholders, those legal gun owners, who of course don't represent that major terrorism risk. we've also received a lot of letters, e-mails, from people who are legally in possession of these weapons, reminding us that, in practice, when they read this document, it's seen as if they're part of this system that we call terrorism. i therefore think that, of course, when we talk about the fight against terrorism, the directive should focus on the so-called black market, the area where these transactions take place, which then facilitate the trade in arms, which is also used for terrorism and terrorist attacks. i think it is very important that, also through legal directives, cooperation between member states, the exchange of information be strengthened and that the exemplary legislation in this area already be taken into account in some countries, as is the case in slovenia.
in writing. the safety of citizens comes first. the current firearms legislation dates back to 1991, so the need for reform is fully justified. we need decisive, reasoned and, above all, well-thought-out solutions that will really provide more security and better protection. in my view, the directive, while its wording is nevertheless considerably better than the original, still leaves a number of open questions. the biggest complaint is that it discriminates against the owners of legally-acquired firearms. i am of course in favour of tightening up the controls and introducing additional rules to reduce the safety risk, but i am afraid that the consequences of this directive will be borne by the wrong target group. hunters, sport shooters and collectors are not the ones who threaten our security, nor are they the ones who would refine weapons. the terrorists are the ones who should be targeted, and the fact is, they don't use legally-acquired weapons in their actions. i regret that the proposal, which i myself supported, and which would have made the content of the directive clearer and more unambiguous, was not adopted.
so mercury is one of the most dangerous substances and poses a global risk to both human and animal health. it's found in fact everywhere, it's found in water, it's found in fish, it's found in seafood, it's found in nature, and it's really one of the most important environmental concerns. i think that the report we are talking about is a really good basis for respecting the commitments that have been made in the united nations and above all it is to welcome those key points from this report both in relation to dental amalgam and waste and the use of exports, export restrictions and of course the warnings that are important in order to protect ourselves against the harmful effects of this substance.
so these are issues that have been dealt with by the commission and the european union as a whole for many years, and we are still a long way from being able to talk about gender equality. even statistics and the so-called equality index actually show stagnation and decline of this equality, which is seen everywhere. it's seen in the pay system, it's seen in the actual representation of women in key positions in both the economy and politics. the recent crisis, both economic and migration, has shown that these are very, very vulnerable groups of people, who, of course, we must also give, i would say, reports and also through legal basis the possibility of full inclusion and equality in all areas of our lives. this starts, of course, in the education process and then later in the job search. i think it is the duty of parliament to pay particular attention to this in all the policy areas it deals with.
so as my colleague said, this is the average area available to a farmed rabbit, less than two a4 sheets. in such unacceptable conditions, as many as 99 percent of the entire rabbit population lives. over 340 million are slaughtered each year, and their lives up to the slaughter are a sad and cruel existence in cramped and rundown cages, where they are proven to be exposed to very, very poor conditions. therefore, i welcome the minimum standards for the protection of farmed rabbits, which means the phasing out of battery pens and wire cages and the introduction of free-range or ground-rabbit husbandry with grass as the main source of food. i also welcome the fact that the report calls for the findings of the european food safety authority and the world organisation for animal health to be respected, and i have therefore naturally supported the report in this part, which is a necessary step towards efforts to achieve more humane conditions and, of course, let the rabbits live.
we are at a time when we face enormous challenges in the protection of human rights. this makes it all the more important that we take action and set priorities for the next session of the united nations human rights council. the situation of human rights worldwide needs to be closely monitored and in times of conflict and crisis we must not wait but stand up for human rights. the protection and respect of human rights is fundamental to the european union's existence and must therefore also be promoted within the un. i support close cooperation between the european union and the un high commissioner for human rights, which includes both financial support and human resources. children's rights deserve more attention. children are the most vulnerable part of society and are more exposed to exploitation and violence than others. so we must ensure that the convention on the rights of the child is not only the most widely ratified human rights document ever, but also the most implemented.
recognizing that the recognition of the inherent human dignity of all members of the human family and of their equal and inalienable rights is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world, that the denial and trampling upon of human rights has led to barbarous acts which are offensive to the human conscience, and that the creation of a world in which all people enjoy freedom of speech and belief, free from fear and want, is recognised as the highest aspiration of mankind, and that it is imperative that human rights be safeguarded by the rule of law so that man is not compelled to resort to the utmost force in resisting tyranny and violence, the universal declaration of human rights was adopted in the framework of the general assembly of the united nations. so we have the european convention on human rights. it is right to talk about human rights violations everywhere in the world, but it is also right to talk about human rights violations here in europe, between member states, and it is also right to read what the council of europe, which is over here, says about this, and therefore to listen to their views.
the food industry, in all its complexity, therefore also presents certain risks, as has been confirmed by some scandals, some unfair trading practices, and also by some recent allegations that certain identical products are sold in different countries from west to east with completely different quality. it is therefore right to provide for greater security controls, effective anti-fraud rules, effective sanctions and, of course, a high level of security, because, after all, this is also aimed at consumer protection, more transparent operations and, of course, higher standards in the field of nutrition. i think it is no secret that some companies in this sector are also using, in the name of profit, certain controversial products, from plant protection products which are harmful to health to pharmaceutical products which are prohibited, and i think that if we want to restore consumer confidence we must put an end to this behaviour.
we can only discuss the common future of europe if we are clear about what we want. we can reassure citizens with a strong message about a united europe, one that we are ready to work together for and one that is ready for change. all this talk about laps and speeds is leading away from that. the different directions of development have raised fears in slovenia, doubts about where our small country will land. what does poland's tactics against council president tusk tell us, or does the selective policy of some countries tell us, when it comes to solidarity with migrants? that we don't all want integration to the same degree. but dividing europe into east and west would be a fatal mistake for our future, for peace and stability, including the tensions in the western balkans. no insulation, no walls are going to solve our problems. we need solidarity, unity to create jobs, to fight crime, to fight terrorism, to manage migration and our long-term goal must be to reduce social inequality. my europe is the europe we all share, colleagues, it is our europe and this is the only way we can think and act and bring back security to citizens and leaders at the top. i ask you to take this into account.
the european union is both a political and an economic project, but it has broken in two directions. north-south in times of economic crisis and east-west in times of refugee crisis. the schengen regime, foreign policy and, above all, the solidarity system and social europe are all at risk. it is not enough to have a white paper and five scenarios, but we need a new agreement, a new treaty on possible cooperation between european countries. a multi-speed europe or a multi-scenario europe will of course not be in line with the founding act, the european constitution. we need a new european agreement, in which we must also listen to our citizens, the europeans, if we think they will still trust us and this joint project. we've been ignoring them for too long, so we need their voices and their opinions and their views.
we europeans can already be proud of the fact that we enjoy the highest quality and safest food in the world. but i am glad that we have passed legislation today to ensure that quality and safety will continue to be guaranteed and improved in the future. we must realize that today there is a whole range of diseases that threaten animals and humans, and this concern for food safety is a constant need. on the other hand, there is a wide range of fraud which must be tackled and prevented from happening with adequate controls. clear control of food is also needed, because as food is increasingly mobile, i.e. circulating within europe, we are also importing more and more food from other parts of the world. the other aspect that is very important, and that has been very relevant recently, is that in some eastern european countries we are asking ourselves whether we are eating the same quality food as our western european counterparts. so this area too needs to be brought into line.
this year, we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, and we are talking about a europe of equality, where we all have equal rights, including a united europe. the motorways are certainly something very important to make us more mobile and as a slovenian it always surprised me that we can drive on german motorways for free, that is, without paying tolls. i was also surprised by the proposal put forward by the german government which would discriminate against those who come from elsewhere through germany, because after all only foreigners would pay the toll in germany. that is why i support this resolution, which has been adopted, because it is precisely this discrimination that it prevents. similar discrimination occurs with our road hauliers when they travel through austria. the same is true of services provided abroad, and we will have to be very careful in the future to ensure that europeans are not discriminated against.
mr president, the last years have not been easy for europe. several terrorist attacks have taken lives. what are the lessons we have learned from more than a decade of the fight against terrorism? it is a mistake to say all terrorism is inspired by religion. terrorist acts are first and foremost criminal acts. terrorism is difficult to predict, especially when it goes for lone wolf terrorism cases such as breivik in norway. we have taken actions. the s&d group has been a constructive partner in adopting key security measures, but some do not work properly or are not implemented. let me first stress the most important thing. there can be no freedom without security, but security without respect of fundamental rights is unacceptable. in the s&d group today we call on the commission and member states for concrete actions. we need full analysis of all the measures currently in place at national and eu level. we need to know which are implemented and whether they are efficient, also why some are not working and what is still missing or can be improved. what is certainly missing is the lack of cooperation and information intelligence exchange between countries. we need to better address and tackle the root causes of terrorism around the world. we have to do more on bridging europe’s social divide. deradicalisation, social inclusion and education should be at the core of the counter-terrorism strategy. it is wrong to believe we do nothing. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs most of the legislation currently deals with security, but security means also human rights, and security also means less social inequalities in europe. so colleagues, stronger european action is required to successfully counter terrorism. the best weapon over fear and hatred in europe is human dignity and security.
the adoption of this regulation will therefore be a significant moment. we would, of course, be even more pleased if this regulation were even more complete, if it contained fewer exceptions and if it actually listened to all the proposals that were also put forward in these long negotiations. but this decree, nevertheless, is a message that we care about the people, the children, the women who work in impossible conditions, who are actually sacrificing their lives for the profits of corporations, which then also finance conflicts, wars and arming gangs. it is up to us, of course, to limit this, to break these chains, to not support the growing number of victims of all these conflicts, and of course competition cannot be above human rights, cannot be above human dignity, and also cannot be above the basic human value, which is life, so we must do everything to put an end to this.
the new initiative to establish a european solidarity corps will bring additional opportunities and challenges for young people in their integration into society. as a pan-european project, it has a special added value. bringing together young people from different parts of the union in humanitarian activities that reinforce the values on which the union is founded is good for it and for each young person. but despite the promise of this initiative, i would like to make the following point: the commission envisages that the european solidarity corps will be set up in the first phase with the financial and human resources of existing programmes, including erasmus+ and the related european voluntary service project, which has been running for at least 20 years and which we have already discussed today. i therefore share the concern of my colleagues that the inclusion of the european solidarity corps in the erasmus+ programme makes it difficult to implement both effectively. in fact, in my recently adopted report on the implementation of the erasmus+ programme, i pointed out that the programme does not have enough funds to finance all its core activities, let alone to finance this project, this initiative, such as the european solidarity corps.
i support the need to simplify and codify this issue and in fact to simplify the legal rules as much as possible, especially since the existing ones of course date back more than 30 years. but it must be said that fisheries policy is a very complex process, which also has to take account of local specificities, environmental aspects and what my colleagues have said before me: the distinction between so-called small-scale fisheries, artisanal fisheries on the one hand and industrial fisheries on the other, because they have a completely different impact on many sectors. of course, unification requires, even very much, clarity of the texts, even though it is a technical document. above all, the definitions of terms must be very clear, concrete and coherent, so as to avoid that things are interpreted differently and that member states do not take this into account as they should.
in writing. i strongly support the need to achieve eu air quality objectives. this is why it is necessary to make a continuous effort to reduce vehicle emissions, to set standards and to control this area better, and above all to prevent manipulations within the automotive industry, as happened in the volkswagen affair. fraud must be condemned. of course, the ultimate price for this manipulation, in the case of the vw affair, is paid by consumers. we all pay for it, because we all breathe the same air, and it affects our health. the protection of consumer rights, not just industry, is also part of the internal market. but i do not agree with the proposal to set up a new eu agency. in my view, this would only be an additional administrative and financial burden, whereas the controls would be questionable and the added value minimal. i believe that it is the commission and the member states that must ensure and monitor that the automotive industry implements the legislation in practice. but it is also important to realise that measurement fraud is not good for the long term - certain companies are casting a bad light on the entire automotive industry, have a negative impact on public health and are also undermining consumer confidence. the rules of the game must be respected. today's vote is another step towards achieving this.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i welcome the views that were expressed today and i welcome the support for the high level of ambition in this proposal expressed by many of you. this fundamental reform is vital to ensure sufficient eu oversight and it aims at preventing any future misconduct. it will be key in restoring public confidence and i would like to make some comments. the independence of approval authorities was raised. yes, the commission insists on independence of approval authorities and technical services. some type-approval authorities and technical services appear to apply lighter interpretations of type-approval requirements than others, and this has to change, undisputedly. we need a level playing field, and fairness and clarity for consumers. some members mentioned that they supported the commission’s proposal on a fee structure. under the current system, the technical services that carry out certification testing for manufacturers are, in fact, directly paid by these manufacturers. this undermines the notion of ‘independent’ and that is why we proposed a pooled fee structure on a national basis, which would cover the costs for testing and inspections carried out by the designated technical services, as well as covering the costs for the type-approval certification, market surveillance activities and conformity of production review assessments. there were some comments that i could not understand. honestly, i could not understand the question to mr dalton along the lines of ‘what is it that you have against volkswagen?’ and words concerning hatred against the german industry. i think this is total nonsense. this is not about hating the automotive industry, it is all about respecting our citizens’ right not to be cheated and it is all about respecting our citizens’ right to clean, unpolluted air. the issue of the agency seems to be the main topic of this debate. i was listening carefully and with interest to the arguments in favour of, and also against, a european agency and i will watch carefully the results of the vote later today. one member also suggested that this will destroy, or words to that effect, the uk car industry. this is not supported by any facts. in fact, the uk car industry has a higher turnover than any other member state, helped obviously by its access to the eu market. here, i think i would agree with the comment made by another member that no-one is against positive economic performance, but no one wants this to be at the expense of citizens’ health. in europe, 28 national authorities are responsible for checking car manufacturers’ compliance and most checks occur before the product is put on the market. that is what our type-approval proposal is all about: more checks on the market, better coordination of recalls at eu level, and eu harmonised sanctions. following the adoption of the real driving emissions act, europe will be the only region in the world that will measure real driving emissions. everyone agreed, and i think there were a lot of comments about the fact that we need more market surveillance. today’s plenary debate shows the political importance of this proposal as a key response to what has happened regarding exhaust emissions. the european parliament is sending a strong and clear message to member states, and to the other players in the sector, that they will no longer get away with not taking safety, environmental protection and the wellbeing of our citizens seriously. i fully agree with this approach and the commission counts on your further support in the upcoming negotiations with the council. the commission’s proposal to strengthen type approval and market surveillance are part of a series of other measures, including the real driving emissions testing, which will mean that the volkswagen scandal can, and will, never happen again. more than a year has passed since the commission tabled this proposal but to the outside world we still have little progress to show, so i would encourage you to start trilogue meetings with the council as soon as possible. for our part, we are determined to do all it takes to ensure quick progress. we never again want to see a scandal such as the one which has tarnished the reputation of the industry for almost 18 months and this proposal is a key tool to ensure that it will never be repeated. i am certain, and the commission is certain, that we can get it right by working together. we owe this to our citizens. thank you very much for contributing and i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs.
in writing. following dieselgate, it has become clear that the emissions of dirty emissions from most diesel vehicles on the road are much higher than eu standards allow, usually as much as five times the limits. if the existing institutions had functioned, i believe that the dieselgate affair would not have happened at all, but it is clear that this is not an isolated case at all, as confirmed by the emis committee of inquiry. it concluded that the supervisory authorities at national level are not doing their job properly, putting the interests of the automotive industry before the interests of citizens and public health. the emis committee also concluded that there is strong evidence that the use of switchgear is widespread. it is clear that the automobile industry plays a very strong role in the absence of controls in each country. it is unacceptable that the european parliament has not supported amendments that would have allowed the establishment of an independent eu-level agency to monitor the car market. the authority would complement the existing system of market surveillance of motor vehicles with independent and transparent controls, thus ensuring that vehicles sold comply with safety and environmental standards. this would restore consumer confidence and avoid similar scandals in the future. i am sure that the european parliament will regret this decision in the future.
it is extremely important to unify the legal rules in this area, including for all citizens in the european union, and to codify this area, because certain sectors are naturally concerned about what this will mean in practice for fisheries policy itself. it is true that this is a technical document, in fact a revision of the 1968 document, but above all the common fisheries policy is very important for all the countries involved in this area and it also has a very important social role; in particular, of course, environmental aspects must be taken into account, including local specificities, and of course the distinction between the so-called industrial fishing of large vessels and that of small fishermen, for whom this is a traditional way of fishing. it is important, above all, that these rules clearly spell out the diction and definitions in order to avoid different interpretations in practice.
so if the existing institutions had worked, the dieselgate would not have happened. and also, of course, this is not an isolated case, but it seems that the automotive industry in each country has a very strong role in the lack of control. the emis committee of inquiry, which was set up to clarify this in the european parliament, has also said exactly that: the supervisory authorities at national level are not doing their job, placing the interests of the automotive industry above the interests of their citizens. i therefore find it unacceptable that we have not voted today on these amendments, which would also have allowed the creation of a so-called body at european union level, and i think we will regret such a decision in the future, and this will of course not prevent new scandals and new consumer misinformation.
research shows that about one million hectares of tropical land are used to produce palm oil for import into the eu. and can you imagine what that means for ecosystems? tropical ecosystems, especially rainforests, are being destroyed, surface and groundwater are disappearing, forest fires are occurring, and these changes are not only bad for ecosystems, but can also tragically affect local populations whose survival is closely linked to these ecosystems, and which of course means more migration in the long run. it is important to pay more attention to this area, and i therefore welcome the resolution adopted today, and i also welcome the fact that we are working towards phasing out the use of biofuels and industrial oils by 2002. of course, we cannot turn a blind eye to the exploitation of the workforce on these plantations.
i supported the resolution on palm oil extraction and the burning and clearing of rainforests, as it focuses primarily on the environmental aspect. because deforestation has a very big impact on biodiversity, the impact on greenhouse gases through burning, and we have to realize that in indonesia and malaysia, as many forests have already been cleared for these purposes as the forests in austria. so it's a big deal, and it's right to point that out. on the other hand, it also has a negative impact on people, on the indigenous people, because in this part of the world, it's mostly the business of big corporations. this is not a small farmer's business, but it is primarily a labor exploitation business. europe has its share of responsibility, as we are major importers of palm oil, and therefore we need to do something about transparency, control and certification of this production and, ultimately, to opt for imports of only palm oil that is produced in a sustainable way.
we have not been effective when we could have prevented the tragic fate of refugees, exiles or migrants, for one reason or another. in the report we are discussing, which is truly comprehensive, we can find many reflections, many values, which justify europe's reputation as a continent of humanism, culture and compassion. as an expression of our responsibility, i support an ambitious and investment-oriented plan for the countries that are the source of the largest number of refugees and migrants. i also support the commission's approach to ensure the participation of all countries in the wider middle east, africa and asia which, in view of their economic potential, can contribute significant resources to the implementation of this programme. we must continue to work with turkey, despite our criticism of the state of democracy and human rights in that country. we must also support all countries in the path of refugee flows, so that refugees are treated with human dignity on their journey.
we are faced with three types of problems: problems in the countries of origin, in the countries of transit and in the countries of destination. the report focuses more on the root causes of the refugee problem, and i am pleased that this approach is much more ambitious for the problems in the countries of origin, which will continue to be the source of migration, even if we succeed in contributing to the end of unfortunate conflicts in them. i come from slovenia, which has seen several hundred thousand refugees from the south-east, on their way from greece to germany, to put it simply, and for this reason i particularly support the intention that the european union should pay more attention to transit countries which have acted in the interests of the european union. as for the destination countries, i would like to highlight one aspect that i believe is underestimated, and that is the cultural aspect of migration and the refugee problem. the question of integration is not a matter of statistics or technique, but is a distinctly cultural one. i'd like to see more attention paid to this issue.
on june 29 last year, the united kingdom decided to leave the european union. on 29 march, mrs theresa may sent a letter announcing a firm exit from the european union, a firm brexit. we may regret things, but we must certainly respect them as facts which will employ the european parliament and its members in the months and years to come. the european union must be united. we must put the interests of citizens of both the european union and the united kingdom first and create a separation that will ensure decent coexistence in the future. it is also a time to reflect on the future of the european union. there is certainly a lot to be done in the european union and to improve the functioning of the european union itself. but perhaps the right answer, even in the face of brexit, is to intensify the talks on the enlargement of the european union to include the western balkans. these countries want to join the european union because they want to live in peace, freedom and want the good of their people. maybe that's the right answer.
representing the s&d group. – mr president, i am very pleased that we are having this debate today. the issues of hate speech, populism and fake news on social media are relevant given the rise in extremism, populism, xenophobia, sexism and other forms of discrimination and intolerance. here are some of the most popular fake news titles which were making the headlines in the 2016: ‘1 000 muslims screaming “allahu akbar” set fire to germany’s oldest church on new year’s eve’, ‘pope francis shocks world, endorses donald trump for president’, and ‘isis leader calls for american muslim voters to support hillary clinton’. fake news is not a new phenomenon. it is as old as the press itself. however, it gained momentum and global visibility during the us elections, the uk referendum and even during the recent elections in the netherlands. what is especially worrying is the accelerated spread on social media. today around half of european citizens follow news on facebook and other social media and six out of ten news items shared are passed on without being read first. the majority of people, mostly young, have difficulty in identifying fake news. we have already called in this chamber in the past for a european solution to fake news. today i call again on the commission to urge social media firms to boost their efforts to counter fake news. we need some kind of clarification from the eu on the self-regulatory measures in the sector. we have to strengthen efforts in working towards the establishment of online platforms so that fake news or illegal content is completely eliminated and to impose fines on those who fail to do so. we have to better support fact—checking websites. this is why i also call on the commission to analyse in depth the current situation and legal framework with regard to fake news and to explore the possibility of legislative intervention to limit the dissemination and spreading of fake content. next education: for children to be taught in schools how to spot fake news and the inclusion of media literacy in education as we have to actively engage with our youngest citizens. i am convinced that part of the solution is also to strive for better quality in journalism and the media. to achieve this we need to encourage quality journalism online and to extend ethical journalistic standards to all media actors. we need more investigative journalists, professional and courageous media outlets and more transparency in media ownership. it is also of key importance to address the particularities of hate speech online. the code of conduct published by the commission is a step in the right direction. we also need more financial means to fund research on social media algorithms that create filter bubbles and prevent the viral spread of fake news. finally, why not launch the european union’s own broadcasting channel to counter the lies and draw europe together and defend democracy, not as an eu propaganda system, but as a major european media platform in its own right? this idea is currently being floated in germany and france. my group, the socialists and democrats, are committed to being in the forefront of this important fight. we owe this to our citizens. if we do not win this battle, fake news and propaganda will, together with its main goals: provoking fear leading to apathy, chaos or completely irrational decisions. we must not let lies dictate the truth of what is going on in our society.
the abolition of roaming will thus reduce the costs for those abroad and unify the digital market. not only to business people, who are often abroad, but also to young people studying abroad and to all those who come to another member state as tourists. however, it is very likely that operators will increase their subscription packages before june and, of course, re-adjust them to the market. but we must wait for that and also keep on the watch. the abolition of roaming will finally unify mobile network services, as operators have charged surcharges, creating additional barriers to the digital single market. i welcome the success of the european commission and the european parliament in providing a great many people with cheaper telephone services.
as we've heard from some of the previous speakers and of course the last speaker, we're obviously getting different information about venezuela, so what's really going on in that country. on the one hand, we are receiving information that the country is undergoing a serious test, including humanitarian crises, including political ones. on the other hand, some point out that the situation is not as dire as it appears. it certainly seems important that in these circumstances it is also the duty of the european parliament to get a real picture of the situation in the country and that we do not simply succumb to provocations, perhaps, which do not reflect the real situation. the european parliament must therefore certainly support all those actions which promote and thus also enable democracy, and above all i think that the european parliament must always be directed towards supporting peace and stability in third countries and thus also promoting development and providing assistance in the event of a humanitarian or economic crisis in which these countries may find themselves. i would remind you that the situation in venezuela is very important for the stability and peace of the whole latin american region, and any conflict or armed conflict in this area can of course spread like a flame to other areas, so it is important that the european parliament also plays an important role in this, especially in supporting, as i have already said, missions to show the real situation and what is happening in this country. in any case, any country in difficulty and in an economically unsustainable situation needs to be helped and given appropriate support. but we must not forget that views on democracy can be different, and can be interpreted in very different ways, and it is true that in the end, as always, the greatest monument and, of course, the fact of democracy is decided by the people of that country, and this is also true in the case of venezuela.
mr. chairman, i want to support the colleagues who are here to clearly condemn the current situation in venezuela. i just want to reiterate that recently, a few weeks ago, six months ago, we were discussing the situation in this country, and the situation has worsened again. what's different from a constitutional coup is how the supreme court decided to assume, in a completely absurd way, the legislative power. this is clearly another attack by president maduro and his subordinate state power structures in an attempt to dismantle and completely eliminate the rule of law and democracy in this country. so i think, as do my colleagues, commissioner, that the european executive must be much more active in putting pressure on venezuela, but also in trying to help venezuela as such. today, every day, we read stories about how venezuela is lacking medicine, how there is a humanitarian catastrophe, how there is a lack of food. so we have to put more international pressure on the one hand, but also help ordinary venezuelans who are suffering under the current dictatorial government.
we are talking about the unfortunate venezuela, a country that was ruled for decades by the regime of hugo chavez, a leftist regime that at one point was even lucky enough to have very high energy prices, and also gave the impression that it was creating a modern state. the truth soon came out and now that the regime of authoritarian leader mr. maduro is in power, we see what is really happening in venezuela: political instability, poverty, humanitarian crisis, social and humanitarian crisis, the power of drug cartels, corruption, in fact everything that cannot be called democracy. we in the european parliament have no choice but to side with those we are encouraging to democracy and to fight together, if you will, with the vatican and the united nations for the people who are unhappy in venezuela.
the reporter. the report we will be discussing tonight, late at night, apparently, is about the european commission's 2016 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and it is not yet finished. we will write our final words when the expected crisis shift in macedonia occurs. with the active participation of all the shadow rapporteurs and after a comprehensive discussion and support in the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs, a document was produced which clearly supports the integration of macedonia into the european union and euro-atlantic integration, provided that the long-standing political crisis is brought to an end, a new government is rapidly formed, which will take into account the results of the elections on 11 december last year and the relations and possibilities of coalition cooperation in parliament based on them. today we can only conclude that the crisis continues, that the work of parliament is practically impossible, that the basic rules of parliamentary democracy are not respected and that instead of commitment to the long-term interests of the state, the political confrontation between the parties is dominated by tones that increase mutual division. instead of enabling the country to progress along the european path, the necessary and profound reforms, they direct the dissatisfied masses of their supporters into street protests that fuel inter-ethnic mistrust and intolerance. almost four months after the extraordinary parliamentary elections, which were held in accordance with democratic standards, we have thus concluded that the constitution of a parliament and the formation of a government cannot take place because of the systematic obstruction of the process by the most powerful political party vmro, which failed to obtain the necessary majority, and because of the refusal of the president of the state, in accordance with the rules and practice of democratic states, to entrust the mandate for the formation of a government to the leader who has given the necessary assurances that he has the support of the parliamentary majority. the actions of president gjorgi ivanov were clearly and critically identified by the highest representatives of the european union, nato and the leaders of many european countries. all called on the president to use his powers to allow the normal functioning of parliament and the formation of a government on the basis of the outright majority available to the potential ruling coalition. president ivanov is insisting on a position that reveals his party affiliation and prolongs the crisis. there is still time for him to change his position and conform to the demands and principles of parliamentary democracy, to restore peace and hope for a better life in peace and mutual respect to all the citizens of his country. ladies and gentlemen, the report, the content of which i, as rapporteur, have prepared in constructive cooperation with you, the commission, my colleagues in the team of mediators on behalf of the european parliament and in close cooperation with commissioner johannes hahn and his cabinet, will have to be completed in line with the unfolding crisis in macedonia before it is put to the vote. i am convinced that macedonia deserves more encouragement than criticism. he's been waiting too long to open negotiations over an anachronistic dispute over the country's name. the report takes the view that bilateral issues and disputes should not be an obstacle to the country's progress towards euro-atlantic integration. a recommendation to open accession negotiations conditional on resolving the political crisis and accelerating reform work based on the pržino agreement and the document on urgent reform priorities would provide an impetus for progress and the much-needed involvement of all political parties on the national priority of eu integration. macedonia and the region around it need stability and peace. at this moment, it also needs to be pacified and reconciled as a condition for a different, inclusive policy. (one more sentence, please. ) macedonian politicians should resolve their relations in a democratic way. in doing so, they can count on the support of the european parliament and of the european union and its institutions as a whole.
let me begin by thanking and congratulating my colleague ivo vajgl on his excellent and comprehensive report, which also covers the problems in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. this country has been a candidate for accession to the european union since the end of 2005. it has encountered blockades from neighboring greece due to long-standing disputes over its name. and at the same time that europe was helping macedonia along this path, some economic progress was made, reforms were carried out. the country has also dealt with the problems of the migrant crisis in times of crisis. but it has entered a deep internal political crisis. this crisis is so deep that it has led, even after the complications first with the conduct of the elections, to the blockage of the formation of the government. i therefore think it is right that the european parliament, the european union, continue to support macedonia on its european path, to help it resolve this dispute. i appeal to the leaders of these political parties to be aware of the great historical responsibility they have at this moment in the republic of macedonia.
the reporter. we have confirmed in this debate that macedonia is a complicated country with difficult problems which it can hardly solve without the sympathy and cooperation of neighbouring countries. it is important that neighbouring countries understand the problems of this complex multinational country and do not make matters worse by interfering in its internal affairs, as we have seen so often recently. macedonia faces difficult challenges on its path towards the european union. today we reaffirmed that macedonia's progress towards european union membership is not only in the interest of the country, but of the european union as a whole and of stability in the region. i expect the crisis to end, the government to be formed and normal parliamentary life to resume in macedonia. it is also important that all parties are aware of the importance of national reconciliation and reconciliation and of the need to outline an inclusive policy. no one should feel like they've lost. the great national project is before everyone and everyone must be aware of this, that they are acting in the interest of the country and the people of macedonia.
on behalf of the s&d group. it is worrying and sad that the european union has not made progress in policy to improve the situation of roma, on the contrary. the european commission acknowledges in its annual report that the situation is deteriorating sharply in certain countries. one in three roma children go to bed hungry at least once a month, and 30% of roma households lack access to running water. and that this is happening in europe in 2017, it's a disgrace. in the light of the roma integration strategy, it is crucial to put the improvement of the lives of thousands of roma europeans at the heart of union policy. the type of countries that still do not use european money for roma integration. and with the rise of the far right around the world, it's more important than ever that we also recognize the consequences of the holocaust on the roma: at least 500,000 roma were exterminated during world war ii. in some countries, this represented around 80% of the total roma community.
our great poet prešeren once wrote a poem in which he said, "what will you teach a flowering branch, but don't teach singers to sing!" i think that part of the debate today is to recognize the roma for their invaluable contribution to the world's cultural heritage. i think we should respect them for being so creative that they came into the world and live with us. and maybe today is a chance to apologize to them for all the wrongs they've suffered because of their way of life.
as a former minister of education, i feel obliged to speak a word, two, on world roma day. first of all, of course, i would like to congratulate all the members of the roma ethnic group, which, as mr weigl has already said, has played an important role in european history and has its place in the cultural heritage. but in this debate today, i would rather expect us to exchange good practices, what kind of treatment some government has for them. my government has been extremely positive in its treatment of them, and much has been innovative, such as the concept of the roma mentor, which presupposes that a few people are chosen from among the roma to ensure that the children participate in the educational process. and this institution has been extremely successful, effective and could also be suitable for the exchange of good practice as regards roma policies.
on behalf of the alde group. when the traces of authoritarian, violent interference in public events, in democratic standards, become too obvious, then we must react. the unlimited power of one man and his small circle of associates or accomplices leads to dictatorship, and our past and present warn us where the path of such a state leads. alexei navalny is one of the few politicians in russia since the fall of the berlin wall who stood up and the regime lashed out at him and those brave people who support him. the russia that gorbachev saw and yeltsin believed in is no more! putin and all those who emulate his model of governance in post-communist countries must be told: enough! your courts will not judge you, so you have taken care, and history will judge you!
mr president, dear prime minister orbán, i am from your neighbouring country, slovenia, and i have many friends in hungary. together we dreamed of being part of an open europe, and today i share my deep worries with them. the current government’s campaign against ngos is unacceptable. we cannot just sweep out civil society. in current national consultations, ‘let’s stop brussels’, the name says it all, you portray ngos as a threat to national interests. with hundreds of ngos across europe, we urge you to withdraw the proposed deal and to respect academic freedom and autonomy and suspend the discriminatory changes to higher education legislation. i also ask my epp colleagues to understand it is high time the commission formally triggers its rule of law framework with hungary. we have to defend the people of hungary from the corrosion of the fundamental values; and mr orbán, i am very sensitive to european migration policy. do not imprison people fleeing for their lives to europe in container villages behind razor wire? it is shameful for europe.
in writing. thank you to the european commission for presenting today. i think this is one of the major projects of this mandate. i welcome your initiative to reduce the social disparities between member states, but i think you have set yourself a rather difficult task. the main focus today is on family leave for the birth of a child, that is, maternity and parental leave. the amendments you propose are acceptable to me and i welcome them. in slovenia, parental leave lasts a total of 260 days, i.e. more than 8 months. in my country, we have a much higher standard, so these proposals do not bring about any substantial change. but many countries are not enthusiastic because their standards are substantially lower than ours. we need to understand that, too. the right balance needs to be struck and, of course, citizens must be encouraged to choose to start a family. after all, our future and the future of europe depends on it.
i should like to begin by thanking and congratulating the rapporteurs, mr van nistelrooi and mrs krehl, for their report. structural reform is something we do to improve the situation in the country. it is not enough to receive cohesion funds, and our key objective is to spend these funds so that they do not remain unused. it is very important how we spend these funds, how we restructure domestic budgets, so that public spending is as efficient as possible, so that the countries that receive these funds are able to get out of development lag as soon as possible. i come from slovenia, where we also need help to implement, for example, health reform, to implement education reform, to avoid having staff who are unemployable and have a shortage of technical professions. we need a reform of public administration. and that's what this funding is for. to put it in a figurative way, it is not enough to have flour, eggs, and similar ingredients to make a good loaf of bread; you must also have leaven. and i see these funds primarily as a leaven to make the best of what is happening in the countries and to help the countries help themselves without always being dependent on foreign aid.
i welcome the european year of cultural heritage first as a slovenian and as a citizen of the european union. cultural heritage is the witness of our past, part of our common heritage for future generations, cultural heritage is the pillar of our culture and identity. for a successful and shared future, we need strong and deep roots. in these turbulent and uncertain times, it is more important than ever for us europeans to know who we are, what we are capable of and what unites us. europe's cultural heritage enriches us with its diversity and at the same time, based on judeo-christian values, it also binds us closely. respect for one's own people, nature, and customs is certainly a step toward developing love for one's country. however, i am concerned about the commission's approach to the financing of the european year of cultural heritage. instead of requesting additional funding for these projects, the commission takes funds from other programmes and thus jeopardises their implementation. i am therefore pleased that we voted in the committee on budgets to create a specific budget line for 2017.
i myself welcome both reports and the work of the european investment bank. i think you are an important institution, which is a tool, in fact, for implementing policy, on the one hand the commission, parliament, the european investment bank on the ground. my request, or rather recommendation, is that you should focus even more on the countries that have joined the european union since then. i come from slovenia and i firmly believe that a country like ours is in great need of the know-how that your institution has mastered. i know and as mayor i have been involved in projects financed by european funds, reviewed by jaspers, and it is very important, even now, in the context of the european investment fund efsi, that your institutions promote this partnership mentality in the eastern european countries, countries that we have joined later. i think that if these countries are better organised, as in slovenia, for example, the project second track, we will also use more resources from the european investment bank and have a more evenly developed europe.
i myself share the disappointment of many colleagues who have expressed themselves about your statements, mr president, and we must all be careful in our work not to divide people, not to divide europe into first-class and second-class. i support the solidarity that europe is showing towards greece, because i think we are in a time when solidarity must be at the forefront of our lives if we are to live in a common european union. on the other hand, we also expect the necessary reforms that each country must make to improve its economic picture, to ensure growth, to ensure new jobs. reforms are needed in a wide range of areas. it's not always just saving money, but it's also often changing education systems, changing business environments and also bringing new business models into countries. and focus on that. and this is the way out of the crisis for the greeks.
i believe that sustainable fishing using traditional tools is the foundation for thriving coastal communities and also contributes to food security in the most remote regions. it is therefore important to integrate the food security objectives of the local population into local fisheries, as unfortunately food security in the outermost regions is today too dependent on imports. in addition, the outermost regions are home to a variety of small communities that rely heavily on traditional coastal and small-scale fishing and for which fishing is often the only source of income. i think that special attention should be paid to the protection of marine biological resources around the outermost regions and that special attention should also be paid to fisheries. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of quotas for the fishing fleet in the outermost regions.
the fact is that the textile and clothing sector employs as many as 60 million people worldwide and creates many jobs, especially in developing countries. but it should be noted that the sector is the one most at risk of human rights violations and labour relations violations, and that many workers in the clothing sector do not earn a decent wage, even a living wage. and most of the violations of both labor and human rights in this sector are related to different aspects, including the rights of workers who are denied the right to organize, actually those fundamental rights that apply in the field of work, and those fundamental labor rights, including wage theft, forced labor, underpayment, arbitrary dismissal, unsafe jobs, unhealthy working conditions. and here, of course, the european union must also take its share of responsibility in terms of legislative proposals that will make such relations impossible.
madam president, i did not endorse this report, i abstained, although there are some good passages in it concerning the support for small and mediumsized farmers in rural areas. i really don't think that the role of the european union is to interfere with the ownership structure of land in the countryside. this is really something that can be very dangerous. i can't wait to see us here calling for someone to be expropriated and someone's property to be restricted by law. i think we should respect the right to property as a fundamental right of a democratic state under the rule of law and we should leave it to the member states, if appropriate, to restrict the use of agricultural land in certain cases. i'm not a fan of this, and while i may not like the fact that property is concentrated in the hands of only a certain percentage of farmers, i will always honor, defend and respect property. so, we must be careful not to go anywhere that is contrary to the rule of law.
any country that is in trouble or economic crisis needs to be helped, to be reached out and given the appropriate support, and this of course also applies to venezuela. but of course, we have to apply democratic standards, democratic procedures, and of course, we have to realize that each country, of course, within itself, is essentially deciding its own future. and the most democratic way of expressing, of course, the will of the people is through elections. and venezuela is no different. but in any case, all violence must be strongly condemned, and of course the violation of freedoms and human rights, the restriction of rights, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, and of course all those violations which intentionally or unintentionally overthrow the government not in a democratic way, that is, by violence, not by elections themselves. i think that the european union must also make a contribution here, which is why i have reservations about this report.
we are living in a time when citizens' trust in the european institutions is declining, and we have a great responsibility to restore that trust. transparent spending of european money and effective fight against fraud are important aspects of confidence in our work. in 2014, almost eur 160 billion of revenue was lost due to vat collection loopholes and eur 50 billion due to intra-community vat fraud. this is a huge loss that could be used to create economic growth and new jobs. instead of taking advantage of the many possibilities for rapid action to combat fraud, we are still witnessing unreliable data reported by member states, which are the result of insufficient cooperation with the european commission. there are also many gaps in cooperation between member states, which should exchange information and best practices. at european union level, we need a strong and independent public prosecutor's office, which must be given sufficient powers to protect the financial interests of the european union quickly and effectively. if we do not give the prosecution sufficient powers and ensure its independence, thereby ensuring a high degree of legitimacy, then this will be a lost opportunity to effectively fight fraud at transnational level. only coordinated action by the european institutions, the member states and other competent services will lead to a more effective protection of the financial interests of the european union.
the idea of a european qualifications framework seems to me to be a very good idea. education, and especially the link between education and the labour market, is a very important area, and i support all efforts to recognise non-formal learning and to recognise non-formally acquired skills. if we have and want to complete the single market, we need also greater uniformity in the recognition of qualifications and skills between us. the free movement of people is one of the key freedoms and, although we may feel differently, labour mobility in the european union is not fully exploited and is used by very few people, a very small percentage of citizens. changes to the single qualification framework would also further encourage labour mobility, which would naturally have positive long-term effects on the economy. people seeking employment abroad face many difficulties, of course, most notably with the recognition of their qualifications, but they are not the only ones. of course, employers also have problems, and they need to recognize the skills that these people bring with them. so, in a way, we would need some kind of certification to be able to use uniform criteria and to know who is offering what in the labour market. it would be good for everyone.
i would like to congratulate you, mr president, and mrs thyssen, on taking on this important task of updating the european qualifications framework. i remember in march 2008, when we finally adopted, or ratified, the first document with that title, i was the one who, as the minister responsible for the presidency, signed it, and i consider it a great honour. of course, almost a decade has passed and i am not particularly satisfied with the implementation of this document in the member states, but given what you said earlier that this year virtually all countries will implement all the key elements of this framework in their own way, it does not matter ... it is a success. and i'm especially pleased that you're going to be updating the master document. however, it should be noted that this is not about the recognition of qualifications, but about transparency and comparison of qualifications. if we did not have the possibility to compare educational outcomes between different countries, european education systems would of course continue to go their separate ways. this document allows us to harmonise qualifications and to facilitate their comparison.
it is intolerable that the eu is always generating 88 million tonnes of food waste, while 55 million europeans cannot afford a quality meal every other day. more than half of all food waste is generated by households, and of course, the whole process and the food chain also plays a role. but there is also the public sector, which, with better planning, could consume and waste less food. so i think it's time we start thinking about the most vulnerable groups, like schools, kindergartens, hospitals, nursing homes, that when we order food, we take that out of the public procurement system, because then we can really have locally grown food. and above all, of course, we will also avoid junk food, which is practically unacceptable in the 21st century.
i would also like to look at the recent cyber-attack, the hacking attack, which has shown the terrifying power of these attacks, which will of course become more and more common. on a yearly basis, there's about 100 billion euros in damage from various cyber attacks, and even when we talk about the e-government action plan, i think we have to pay a lot, a lot of attention to security. and of course, this collection of different data is also a nice invitation for hackers to blackmail, not only individuals, not only companies, but in some cases even individual countries. and so - again - i think that the european commission should also give this area of cybersecurity a special importance, in order to prevent abuses and, of course, to ensure security. this electronic system must be user-friendly.
the schengen area was established to allow citizens of the union to move freely between countries. the task of the border member states of the schengen area is to ensure good protection of the external borders. otherwise, 'schengen' loses its meaning. however, in some cases, the increased controls resulting from the implementation of the schengen border control regulation have led to longer waiting times at the borders. in slovenia, the increased border controls with croatia have caused a lot of controversy, which i also believe is mainly the fault of the governments of both countries, who have not prepared themselves adequately for the implementation of the regulation. the increased border controls with slovenia have also been introduced by austria and italy, all of which demonstrate the countries' lack of confidence in the european union's surveillance and security. and we will have to decide together whether we will carefully protect the schengen border outside, or whether the internal borders will become a reality again. i hope, of course, that we'll go with the first option.
the refugee wave, which reached its peak in 2015 and 2016, brought more than one million migrants and refugees to europe. the european union set itself the goal of relocating 160,000 refugees, and as we can see, only a good tenth of them have arrived in the countries to which they were supposed to go. we have problems on both sides, both countries that don't want to take in refugees and refugees that are targeting the six, eight richest countries in europe. all of this points to a problem and requires careful consideration. my country of origin is also a general rebellion of the people against refugees, but the government has managed to bring in a larger proportion of refugees than the european union's quota. it was different when the crisis in bosnia was, when we took in 70,000 people in slovenia, and it was a question of whether the model was right, and greater political will was needed to implement this programme better.
in the european union, we generate as much as 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while as many as 55 million europeans cannot afford a quality meal every other day. more than half of all food waste is generated by households and, of course, the public sector. this waste is generated along the entire food chain, from farms to the food processing industry to the shops and, of course, the supermarkets. according to the food and agriculture organization, as many as 793 million people worldwide are undernourished, and as many as 55 million in the eu alone. research shows that in the eu, for example, 377 tonnes of tomatoes are discarded in the food chain in one year. to produce that much tomatoes, it takes 90 square kilometers, 57 billion liters of water, and 7 million man-hours, and the crop ends up in a landfill. and as we heard today, this is also an open area for the so-called circular economy, and so we also need to listen to tax breaks and more efficient procurement, which is very important.
it is totally unacceptable and we all agree that we should not throw away 170 kg of food each year in europe. that means that one-third of our food is thrown away, and yet 10 percent of the population has no resources to get quality food. we need to know that more than half of this food is thrown away in the household, then in other parts of this food chain from the processing, the catering, the retail sector. so it's imperative that what the report says, that we do a lot of awareness raising for young people, awareness raising for consumers, awareness raising for local communities. it is right that volunteers, including the professional public, should be involved, as they can make a great contribution to better exploitation of food. the legislative framework, what we wrote in the report, the timelines, also the benefits for the profits, but also for those who donate food. the environmental burden of food waste is also important, accounting for 8% of greenhouse gas emissions, and these incentives are therefore necessary, also in the context of a circular economy, to use this waste as a resource without burdening the environment.
today, it is reported that the sixth round of the geneva negotiations on syria, which you, ms. mogherini, helped to start, has begun without much anticipation. for those who believe in political solutions and active diplomacy rather than in an escalation of military activity, the developments in geneva, after the negotiations in astana under the auspices of russia, turkey and iran, have led to a partial positive result, the declaration of safe zones, are a positive sign. it would be wrong if the documents we are receiving in the european parliament in connection with the tragedy in syria were just a chronicle of events, without a vision, proposals and plans for our own action that would lead to the cessation of the war and the necessary reconstruction of the destroyed country. what would be worse is to offer syria the status of a cold war battleground instead of solutions, international solidarity and cooperation. i sometimes get the feeling from the comfortable seats of the european parliament that we want something like this here too.
the attacks on christians and churches in the middle east by extremists in the name of intolerance are unacceptable and must be condemned and resisted. in the middle east, we have witnessed the persecution and oppression of christians for many years, resulting in the disappearance of christian communities with a thousand-year tradition in many countries, including egypt, syria, turkey, iraq and iran. intolerance of christians is also on the rise in the european union. although freedom of religion is a constitutional right, believers, especially christians, are often the targets of ridicule, abuse, and violence. according to the vatican, some 90,000 christians lost their lives in 2016. this is a frightening statistic that ranks christians among the most persecuted religious communities in the world. in addition to raising awareness of the seriousness of the situation of christians in the middle east, the european union is also committed to becoming more involved in the places where tragedies occur.
the muslim holy month of ramadan begins in ten days. for most muslims around the world, it's a holiday, a time to reflect on life. for the gays in chechnya, it's a month of horror and thoughts of death. because chechen president kadyrov actually wants to finish the purge by ramadan. if the chechen government doesn't kill gays, their relatives will. the testimony of gay men who escaped from what was almost a concentration camp is horrifying. i don't want to imagine what these men are really going through, and i don't want to imagine what it will be like if the chechen authorities introduce this despicable method for lesbians, disabled people or other minorities. but i do request that the high representative, as you have said, request information and findings from the russian authorities immediately. russia has done nothing yet. i also expect that we will make it clear to kadyrov that gays in chechnya have been, are and will be. and by stating that they don't exist, the president is actually embarrassing the international community and pushing his countrymen into the middle ages. the actions are written, the results are now going to be significant, and if they're not, the stories of extermination from world war ii may begin to grow. the spread of nazism and other ideologies is not limited by national borders.
of course, we can look at moldova through different lenses, depending on whether it is through the opposition's or through the ngo's lens. in recent days, of course, we have also received very serious and worrying reports from the non-governmental sector about the situation in moldova, especially with regard to the planned reforms, and we are not talking about economic reforms, which are of course important for the moldovan perspective, but mainly about the announced changes to the constitution, changes to the electoral system, which, of course, can significantly change the picture and also the political structure of moldova in the future. i agree with the previous speakers who pointed out that, of course, moldova also needs financial assistance and support in its financial and economic reforms. and of course, we have to express serious, serious concern and control over the state of the judiciary, in the area of media freedom and also, of course, some control over media ownership and also the electoral system. the last presidential election also showed quite a few deviations from the standards we advocate in the european union. i am therefore convinced that there is still plenty of room for improvement and i think that moldova also deserves our help, our cooperation, and we must of course be very strict and decisive in this, also in the request for monitoring and in the identification of where the money from the european funds and also from their own funds has disappeared.
mr president, qualifications differ across the european union and this causes many difficulties in terms of accessing knowledge and possibilities for workers and learners. a few years ago, parliament and the council adopted a recommendation on the establishment of a european qualifications framework for life—long learning, with the aim of improving the transparency and comparability of qualifications in europe. but this framework objective has not yet been fully achieved, so also during yesterday’s debate we raised a lot of questions to the commission, and we have to support all those recommendations which would really bring closer this european qualifications framework and would also be a big opportunity for this european qualification framework to become reality. we also have to focus on issues around immigration.
the mobile roaming limits have been falling for ten years, and in a month, they will be falling. at first, few believed, and although it seemed impossible at first, despite the strong resistance of the mobile operators, we were not intimidated by the path ahead. the old system unfairly punished anyone who made a phone call or sent a text message abroad, so we were obliged to end it. it is not only the telecommunications companies, which have nevertheless taken the side of the users of mobile services, who are ultimately the ones who make their living from them, but also the governments of the member states, which have had to take the side of their citizens over these long years. this is another important victory in the realisation of the single market. but we mustn't lose our breath. when it comes to the welfare of our citizens, we run the long distance. consumers are still burdened by the high cost of making cross-border calls and sms messages within the european union from home. a situation where calls made abroad are cheaper than calls made from home is unacceptable. telecom companies make profits at the expense of unfair commissions. committed to a truly european single telecommunications market, we cannot afford to do that. if the question of roaming has been a proof of the european union's action for the benefit of european citizens, we must do the same for so-called calls and sms within the union. now is the opportunity to prevent further abuse of the internal market and to offer our citizens new proof of the european union's workings, proof they will feel in their pockets.
in writing. mr president, thank you very much for your speech. the european union's single market must adapt to the digital age and, with it, to technologies that are developing and upgrading extremely rapidly. services must be available to people throughout the union, regardless of the member state in which they are purchased. it's also one of the four freedoms. i therefore welcome the removal of cross-border blocks on access to online content. i believe that easier access to services will bring a number of positive effects, such as a more varied and better quality offer. more supply means more consumers, more consumers means more industry, and thus more jobs. we need to take advantage of all the opportunities that digitalization offers us. of course, new technologies bring new challenges, not to mention the dangers they pose. consumer protection must remain a primary concern, regardless of the industry. i therefore call for clear and transparent regulation that will protect users' personal data while offering all that it can offer.
on behalf of the s&d group. on 7 april, i was among the thousands of passengers affected, who waited for the exit from slovenia to croatia for five hours or more. the chaos we've been warning about has happened. the inability to carry out systematic screening of passengers was pointed out by my colleagues in parliament in the negotiations, by my country, by the experts. we have taken a measure which, commissioner, is unconscionable and ill-considered, without a proper study to examine the effects of the impact on transport, tourism and the economy. i understand and agree that the safety of our citizens comes first. i support any sensible and thoughtful measures that do. but it's not the last resort. what we have done with the disproportionate revision of the code is, unfortunately, nothing more than a proof of the headlessness and inaction of european politics. every weekend, thousands of tourists, weekenders, cross the slovenian-croatian land border to the croatian coast. in recent weeks, we have witnessed heightened rhetoric on both sides of the border, mutual blame, and the impotence of border authorities who have been left to their own devices. this is not a european policy that would inspire confidence in the people. in a situation where two million slovenians are also subject to unjustified controls on the borders with austria and italy, we rightly ask ourselves whether schengen is still working, and whether european policy on security and migration management is on the right track. does the commission still have the power to make decisions or has it succumbed to the interests of individual countries? since border controls are not a bilateral issue, i wonder, commissioner, whether you intend to formally incorporate into the schengen code the agreement between the prime ministers of slovenia and croatia and commission president juncker to allow countries to carry out targeted checks on passengers when the waiting time is longer than 15 minutes? i expect you to act, otherwise i will be much more cautious in taking new measures as negotiator on other key migration and security issues.
there is no doubt that the protection of the external borders is a necessary and necessary measure to ensure the security of citizens within the european union, but it is also clear that measures must be taken which are proportionate to the objective pursued. and that is not what this regulation is. recent events, the long lines between the easter holidays and the long lines on the slovenian-croatian border, show a completely different picture from the one we saw thirty years ago. in particular, the inhumane border congestion has shown that the measures are clearly not adequate. but the regulation is too strict, to a certain extent, and unrealistic in certain requirements. slovenia has proposed several exceptions for less risky groups, including children, organised groups of pensioners and so on, and these proposals have been completely ignored. the warnings of the local population along the border, for whom the fluidity of the border is vital for everyday life, were also ignored. of course, we all want more security and we must implement measures in the light of the assessment of the effects that this regulation did not have. and we have to consider the reality on the ground. but i cannot ignore the absurdity that is also happening within the european borders, which shows the duplicity of european politics. on the one hand, we are tightening up controls at the external borders, and on the other hand we are giving the green light to strengthened controls at the internal borders, including, for example, the austrian-slovenian border. and then finally, this. i would also like to extend my special congratulations to the slovenian police and all border authorities for their dedication and professionalism in their work, despite the heavy workload. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i am talking about a fact that has been going on for more than six months, namely the european commission gave the green light to austria to strengthen controls on the slovenian-austrian border, despite the fact that [...] and above all that the checks did not show a higher risk. this, of course, also causes economic damage, which could be avoided if these controls were simplified. and, as i said, i think that the measures to be taken to increase safety should be proportionate to the impact assessment, which should be done before any regulation is adopted.
driving safely is far more than just having drivers obey the rules and drive at the proper speed, and being sober and resting while driving. employers play a vital role in road safety by forcing many busy professional drivers to take to the road when they should be resting, or by forcing them to drive too fast to reach their destination in time. but even good and clear rules are not enough if enforcement is poor. this requires the proactive action of the police, inspection and other official bodies, but at the same time these bodies must be sufficient and controls must be carried out where the traffic situation is difficult and not where it is easiest to fill the budget. it is up to the relevant ministries and government to set priorities and allocate human and financial resources appropriately to enable the police and other authorities to carry out their tasks. each one of us in the community can contribute to safety.
solidarity is a core value of the european union and cohesion policy is the tool to put this solidarity into practice. in the 1980s and 1990s, cohesion policy led to the development of the counties in ireland, wales, spain, portugal, greece and other member states. in this millennium, we have had the opportunity to benefit from the huge cohesion funds for new members. i was also mayor of a municipality of 25 000 people, which benefited from more than 40 million in european funds. many of the water pipes, sewage treatment plants and high-altitude broadband networks are the result of cohesion policy. and if cohesion policy needs money and various means, it also needs good, strong technical assistance. technical assistance, which is what we train at the national level first, which is what we bring to the local communities, to the economy, to science, to research. and if in the previous financial period we had to master technology, how to build a large facility, now we need to build knowledge, how to connect the economy, science, local communities, the state, and through smart specialization, bring new technologies, development, to individual countries. and that is what we are talking about today, which is why i very much support these two reports and i am convinced that cohesion policy must remain the foundation, also in the new financial perspective, if we want to have a european union.
technical assistance for cohesion funds is one of the most important tools for achieving the objectives of these funds. it is true that there are still too few avenues open at the so-called local and regional level, which could significantly reduce the potential for drawing on european funds. but cohesion funds, as we have heard today, are essential for the european union to develop in a balanced and fairer way. in future, therefore, more attention should be paid to cutting cohesion funds to achieve a more balanced development potential for european countries. and it is this technical aspect and technical assistance that can strengthen both the administrative work and the capacity on the one hand, and of course the ability to draw on all levels. and it is here that i think there is a lot of room for manoeuvre in terms of national, regional and local integration, so of course we should support all efforts in this direction.
question asked by raising the blue card. i agree with your thesis about the dual quality, which can also affect health and, of course, quality of life. do you think it would be sensible to consider, at european level, where we have the so-called european consumers union, to allow it, as an independent body, to carry out a european study of these problems and, on the basis of this, to propose appropriate measures and appropriate administrative frameworks, and above all sanctions, to prevent this deception?
mr president, dear colleagues, a quarter of a century after the fall of the iron curtain, we see that all the walls between the west and the east still have not been pulled down. even new ones have been created, and when we speak about food, we do not speak about cosmetics. we are not talking about two-speed europe again; what we are more concerned about is already two-quality europe. this is not acceptable: we should not allow multinational corporations to act against european values or against the spirit of our internal market. misleading consumers’ calls for legal responsibility – but making differences between consumers within the european union calls also for our political responsibility. i do not want coca cola, nutella or camembert west and coca cola, nutella or camembert east. misleading consumers will last for so long, as long as they will find in their stores different products under the same brand. we need credibility of european brands, and there is no credibility without fair play. we have not been politically uniting our continent in the last decades in order to divide the citizens on the matter of quality, and surely not when food – that is, when our health – is in question.
i am against discrimination against customers and i am for the provision of products of the same quality to all customers, whether in eastern or western europe. that is why last year i also made a written statement calling on the commission to clarify all the questions and uncertainties that are troubling our citizens. the key question here is whether companies are simply adapting the tastes of their products to the habits of the people where these products are sold, or whether this is discrimination against consumers and that products of lower quality are actually sold in eastern markets. rather than additional regulation, which is linked to both the cost of implementation and monitoring, i believe it would be sensible to take action by encouraging testing and comparison through consumer organisations and by informing the public. i conclude ... but i think that in addition to the european commission, the ministries of economy of the member states should also participate in this.
in writing. i welcome the changes in mobility, especially when it comes to changes in road transport and road pricing. i think this is just another step towards deepening the single market. it is true that each member state regulates this area in its own way, so we must be cautious but effective in making changes. it is important that european citizens travel without disruption and that the proposed changes also translate into benefits rather than obstacles in practice.
europe is founded on judeo-christian roots and the jews have been and will be part of europe. but at the same time, it is a sad truth that they have been and continue to be persecuted and subjected to inappropriate, unnecessary and unjustified violence, not only verbal but also physical. not because they would personally do anything of the kind, but simply because they are jews. so it's extremely important to protect these people very specifically physically. that is why i support the resolution, especially the part which calls for an operational definition of anti-semitism. this is necessary to be able to identify and combat anti-semitic acts. anti-semitic people often hide and say or defend that they are not anti-semitic but that they are only criticizing the actions and actions of the israeli state or government, just as we are critical of governments and states in other countries. but the line here is a thin one, and an operational definition of anti-semitism allows us to meet this challenge, to better identify the people who are spreading anti-semitism, and to prevent them from doing so. freedom of speech is a very precious right that should not be abused to spread hate.
first of all, i would like to thank angelica mlinar for drawing up the draft legislative resolution, this recommendation. i also congratulate the fra, the agency, on its 10th anniversary. as the rapporteur, i too miss the thematic area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in this new multiannual framework. i know the work of the agency, i even visited the president, the director of the agency, years ago and presented him with the blatant violation of human rights in the patria case in my country, but without the right, appropriate response. so i think it would be good if the agency expanded its activities and also its powers. i wish it worked a little differently, too. it might be a good idea to try to do original research, not just on the basis of official data and information received from the member states, but to do your own original research on the state of democracy and respect for human rights and freedoms in the member states.
we all know in this room that the media plays an extremely important social role. not just in persuading the public when it comes to elections or something like that, but they have a permanent socializing role. they are particularly important because they enable people to be objectively informed, which is one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms. of course, this requires certain preconditions, and one of the preconditions is that the media system is balanced, or not excessively asymmetrical. and the second prerequisite is, of course, that the media system is pluralistic. but we have certain problems with this in certain countries, post-socialist countries, not only in the czech republic, but also in other countries. the media space has not developed as a balanced and pluralistic space, but as a highly asymmetric one. so what happens is that certain political groups get the advantage because the dominant media, the mainstream media, supports only one political option. and unfortunately, this is a problem in slovenia as well.
in writing. i strongly support the report with its recommendations to the commission on the protection of vulnerable adult groups. the protection of vulnerable groups is about protecting fundamental human rights and the enjoyment of fundamental human rights cannot and must not end at the borders of the member states of the european union. i therefore join the call to the european commission for the member states to set up central bodies to exchange the necessary information between the eu member states on the rights and situation of vulnerable persons. this will certainly ensure a more dignified and less complicated life for vulnerable persons and their carers or representatives when moving and staying within the european union. it is our duty and the duty of the european commission to call on the member states of the european union which have not yet ratified the hague conventions to do so as soon as possible. the protection of vulnerable groups at international level, or at the level of international law, is all the more important in the light of demographic change. the european union, or its member states, must therefore play a progressive and visible role in the adoption of international acts for the protection of vulnerable groups. demographic change in europe is changing our society and international law needs to adapt more than ever. the european union's population is ageing and we will therefore have to pay even more attention in the future to protecting the rights of older people and all vulnerable groups.
horizon 2020 is certainly one of the most important programmes, alongside erasmus, which is also an investment in people, and also one of the most successful. we invest in innovation, in research. i would like to stress that i myself would like the horizon investment programme to be more ambitious, so that all countries achieve what denmark, sweden, finland, but also austria, germany 3% of gdp investments in research. the most developed countries in the world, like south korea, japan, are investing even more. secondly, it is important to invest in all countries, i.e. to connect countries to each other in different networks, and in this way also to test the mechanisms that are increasingly used today also in smart specialisation as a key principle of cohesion policy. and third, let europe also monetize the innovation and research it carries out in new jobs and in the faster development of europe as a whole.
in writing. the gender pension gap remains one of the major challenges in terms of inequalities between women and men. in 2012, the gender pension gap was as high as 38% in the 65+ age group, which is unacceptable. it is high time that member states started adopting appropriate policies to deal with this problem. the eu aims to achieve effective equality between women and men, and to prevent poverty and vulnerability, which most often affects women with lower pension benefits. many countries, including slovenia, use pay as you go when it comes to pension systems. it's a system where young people pay for older people. given that the relationship between young and old is changing significantly in favour of the elderly, which is of course welcome as we live longer, countries that use this system in particular will have to consider upgrading it. at this point, it seems important to me that the design of social systems is the domain of each individual country, but given the problem i see, i think that the union could also be more active, especially when it comes to the question of the sustainability of pension systems. of course, at the end of the day, it is the responsibility of member states to put in place an integrated approach, both to pension systems and to tackling the problem of ageing and the increasing incidence of poverty among retired women.
in writing. i strongly support the adoption of the report on the need for an eu strategy to eliminate and prevent the gender pension gap. the report opens up the issue of pension disparities in a transparent and reasoned manner and calls on the commission to develop a strategy to address these disparities in close cooperation with the member states. statistics clearly show that the differences are the result of discriminatory treatment of women in employment and unsatisfactory definitions of individual types of work in the acquisition of retirement age and pension base. the call for a strategy aimed at reducing and eliminating disparities is therefore more than justified. i also want to reiterate the need to adopt a european union strategy in response to demographic change in europe and i reiterate my call on the european commission to work with the member states to develop and adopt it. we need a document that highlights all aspects of an ageing society in europe and offers guidance on how to respond and adapt to them. the message from all those in the european parliament who are committed to a decent life for older people in society is clear, and this report also points this out: a decent pension is essential to combating poverty among the elderly and we must not give in to any form of discrimination.
i'm a fruit grower from slovenia who's been using glyphosate for 25 years, and if anyone cares to know the ultimate truth about glyphosate, it's me. because i don't want to poison anyone with my apples that i sell, and i don't want to poison myself. in my work, i have to take into account the institutions that we have set up for this. i have looked at the efse report, and i have now looked at the chemicals agency report, which confirms what efsa has said before. many agencies around the world are saying that there is no danger in glyphosate. i also read what the health agency wrote. the fda's office of chemical products says glyphosate is not carcinogenic, while the national cancer institute says it's in the category with red meat and things like that. and i think i believe what the commission is saying here, and we have a responsibility to talk about, first of all, ensuring the health of europeans, ensuring that there is agricultural production, that europe does not become dependent on those parts of the world that use both glyphosate and monsanto's gmo products. i'm against the product myself.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all, i congratulate rapporteur mcallister for a balanced report and good cooperation. since the beginning of the negotiations with the european union, serbia has certainly achieved good progress. negotiation chapters are being opened and closed and just yesterday, as we heard, commissioner hahn has announced the opening of new chapters later this month. on paper and in the report in front of us, the development in serbia seems pretty much business as usual. but what i hear when i talk to serbian citizens shows the contrary. young serbs tell me that it is almost impossible to get a job without a party membership card or paying a certain amount of the money to a party official, and ngo reports show continuous decline in the rule of law and unresolved cases such as savamala prove this in practice. media representatives are threatened, investigative journalists are turned away and some of them are even physically attacked. i ask myself, and you: is this the serbia which we want as part of our european family? is this what we want to achieve with negotiating chapters 23 and 24? i am afraid not. serbia should do much more to reach our european standards of democracy, rule of law and the respect for human rights. i am sure that if we continue to practice constructive criticism and turn a blind eye to the real state of play, we will once again prove that we are doing something wrong. as an important player in the region, i wish for serbia to develop into a prosperous, economically and socially stable country where democracy is a way of living not a word on paper, where rules, as opposed to the interests of those who hold power in their hands, prevail. this is the serbia we want to help and support on its path to our european family.
on behalf of the alde group. allow me to express my pleasure in working with the rapporteur for serbia, david mcallister, who has put a lot of effort and creativity into this balanced and balanced document. serbia is well on the way to european union membership and the union must, in order to achieve stability and overall progress, embrace serbia and open up the european and euro-atlantic perspective to all the countries of south-east europe. on the positive side, the report highlights serbia's solid economic performance and improved standards of democratic governance, increased willingness, but not yet sufficient, to engage with civil society, and a responsible approach to the necessary reforms. on the critical side, one cannot overlook the tendency of the occasional sharpening - especially verbal - of relations with neighbours in the region, of the shift between pro-european and pro-russian orientation. in this context, the participation in military maneuvers by russia and its close allies is questionable in the context of a state declaring its neutrality. as regards the media in serbia, it is considered that appropriate legislation is not enough if political control and pressure on the media are allowed in practice, reducing the media to the role of propagandists of the ruling parties and personalities. the political interference in the judiciary will also have to be eliminated if the rule of law is to be credible. serbia is a key country in the region and must therefore limit its ambitions in promoting its interests in neighbouring countries. together with other countries in the region, serbia must work towards reconciliation and pacification in this part of europe. the european perspective of all the countries and peoples of the region is the key to peace, stability and progress.
congratulations david to you, your shadow reporters for an excellent report that gives an objective picture of serbia's progress over the past year. the enlargement process of the european union is also one of my greatest successes, as we know, and we know that, as we come to the end of the process, we are the most vocal speakers from slovenia and croatia, which are part of this enlargement process. a well-functioning democracy needs political culture, it needs respect for the law, it needs to fight corruption, it needs media freedom. this is also the case in countries that are already members of the european union, and if it is not the case in countries, it is still a problem in countries. i therefore think it is right that these warnings in the reports are taken in good faith and that these errors are corrected. but there is certainly a lot of good in the report on serbia, first of all the economic progress, the reforms that are being implemented, because this is the answer to the fact that the demographic picture in serbia will improve, because what we are recording now, that is, i don't know 65,000 births a year, 105,000 deaths, speaks of the bad situation in the country. serbia is also a guarantor of stability in the balkans, and as we know from history, the balkans have also been the cause of many unrest in europe. i therefore hope and wish that serbia first and its neighbours second will refrain from unnecessary provocations and that good neighbourly relations will build peace and prosperity in this part of europe.
so what my colleagues have already said, i add myself that in fact some progress has been made in serbia on the path to inclusion, including the opening of individual chapters. above all, it is clear that serbia is facing a very difficult period, especially the concept of so-called democracy. and i think that some of the observations of the non-governmental sector, the so-called ngos, which point out that serbia is also facing a difficult test, how to actually ensure a plural space for free expression of opinions, freedom of the media and therefore that minorities of all kinds are heard, are not so obvious. i think that we must of course also pay attention to this in future reports and above all open up the debate.
mr president, i congratulate ulrike lunacek for an extensive and good report on kosovo. snap elections have just taken place and we received the reports from the observation mission, and it seems that elections went smoothly. now i expect the government to be formed as soon as possible. every day without government means a day lost in facing various challenges: strengthening democracy, rule of law and the institutions and especially creating better living conditions for all citizens of kosovo, youngsters in the first place. as a rapporteur for a visa—free regime for kosovo, i wish kosovar politicians would reach an agreement. the deal on the demarcation agreement with montenegro and improved track record in fighting organised crime and high-level corruption are in the hands of future politicians in kosovo, the leaders and the government. and the ball is thus clearly in kosovo’s court. i will continue to support kosovo towards the eu and a visa-free regime, but at the same time i would really like to see some more responsibility from kosovo’s authorities. what we heard about the recognition of kosovo and the dialogue with serbia, these are a very crucial questions for a well-functioning state. we certainly want to see kosovo committed to the european part as a good neighbour and healthy democracy, free of corruption and organised crime, and a place where young people see their future.
i join mrs lunacek in congratulating her on the balanced report on kosovo. the reporters try to find mostly the good things that happened in the country in the last year. which i had a feeling that mrs. lunacek had a little bit of a problem with, because we were facing a blockade in the parliament in kosovo, we were even facing violence in the parliament, and negotiating within kosovo is very difficult. negotiations in the region are also difficult, and the appeal made in this report for better cooperation with serbia and montenegro is certainly appropriate and offers some political and economic prospects for the future. in the area of the rule of law, corruption, organised crime, even radicalism remain a problem, not least because fighters from kosovo have also left for isis. i wish the new government to find answers to these questions as well as to the economic questions, because the unemployment rate, especially youth unemployment, and the flight of people from kosovo is a big problem and the answers are very difficult and i really wish them good luck on this journey. the visa liberalisation will certainly require kosovo to fulfil conditions linked to the rule of law, as well as conditions in the field of political cooperation and political culture in the region.
so first of all, a sincere thank you to my colleague, ulrike lunacek, for a really excellent report and for her long-standing efforts to strengthen kosovo and, of course, to promote it in an equal family of countries. the last elections have shown that kosovo will have a difficult time forming a new government. the only thing that worries is the 41% voter turnout and in fact the very high number of so-called empty ballots, which in a way indicates a silent protest of the people, because unless there is, of course, a decisive fight against corruption, unless there is, of course, a demand for and implementation of an independent judiciary, there will be no progress. and i think it is also the task of the european parliament to actively help its colleagues in the newly elected parliament of kosovo in this, as far as possible.
every top is dealing with migration, but people still can't count on us. the member states do not fulfil their obligations to relocate asylum seekers from greece and italy. president juncker, you mentioned the hundreds of millions of climate refugees that could result from the failure to implement the climate agreement. unfortunately, there is no hearing in this house to establish clear criteria that would allow international protection for climate refugees. in a letter, my colleagues and i warned european government leaders of the drama of unaccompanied children. i'm back from greece. without ambitious reforms in dublin, the situation in greece and italy will be unmanageable. the council's deliberations are radically different from those of parliament. we are building security on europe's borders, colleagues, but we are not building security where people are fleeing. and with inhuman schengen measures at the borders, with internal controls between, say, slovenia and austria, where there has been no illegal crossing for months, we will not actually be able to solve this situation. and we should pay much more attention to the fight against criminal groups that smuggle people, to violence against women and children. in short, it is our responsibility, my dear colleagues, to resolve this situation. the american people expect it.
on behalf of the s&d group. the title of today's debate is re-establishing the european union. which means we're aware that we're breaking down the very foundation of our house, which is democracy, equality and respect. mr. vice president timmermans, you have warned of the dangerous populist rhetoric, the widespread anger of our citizens. and so the spiritual building blocks are falling apart, and that means that the union is doing very well in not respecting the refugee quota. some countries simply do not respect the decisions we take at european union level. i therefore also warmly welcome today's decision by the commission to initiate legal proceedings against member states that do not want to participate in the distribution of refugees. yesterday we discussed the report on serbia and kosovo, countries in the eu waiting room. we are strictly monitoring what is happening there, we are critical of the respect of the copenhagen criteria. if you don't comply with the state, you'll never be a member. and that's probably a fair punishment. but is it still right and fair to put this matter before the european union, which includes countries that no longer meet many of these criteria themselves? and what will be their punishment? these and similar anomalies, which some people calmly and even proudly admit, are not democracy, respect, solidarity, responsibility, freedom, nor order and justice, much less discipline. in socialist and democratic countries, we have long supported the idea of building a so-called democracy scoreboard, a screen or reflection of our value indicators. i agree with the suggestions. but at the same time, i know, and we all know, that we know the situation, because it's already been measured, and that nothing will actually change until the offenders are punished regularly and severely. it's not that we don't have mechanisms, it's just that we don't want to use them all that often.
we can pass a thousand laws, but they won't stop corruption. we can have a thousand institutions, and you won't be discovered by the crime. it all depends on whether the laws are written for the chosen few, who in this way even legalize their actions. and are the institutions that are supposed to be independent really independent? the panama papers has attracted a lot of attention, and we've closed a number of tax evasion loopholes because of it, but of course, this is just the beginning. every day there's a new affair. just a few days ago, a scandal broke out involving slovenia's largest bank, which is suspected of being involved in laundering iranian money. we all speak of the rule of law, including prime minister muscat, and we condemn corruption. of course, it would be good not only to speak of it but also to act upon it.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. during the preparation of the opinion in the employment committee, we focused on the impact of the efsi on job creation, which is particularly important for regions with low employment and high depopulation. we also stressed the importance of making the efsi accessible to smes and of course we must ensure that they have easier access to financial support. not only that, but the advisory environment is also important, especially from a technical point of view. we also stressed that the efsi does not have a regional or sectoral approach in the foreground and proposed enhanced cooperation with the structural funds. it is also important to have data on the performance of the efsi implementation available at all times, as further improvements can only be made through evaluation. finally, let me say, or stress, that no effort at eu level will be enough if the member states do not do all they can at national level.
poverty in general is unacceptable in today's developed europe, and child poverty is even less acceptable. even though economic conditions are improving, it is evident that our efforts to reduce poverty are not producing results or are producing them very slowly. so we should ask ourselves, what are we doing wrong? of course, the social transfers we make at european level or in each individual member state are important, but money is not everything. and education is certainly one of the factors that provides a very good foundation for children from poor families to get out of that poverty trap. that is why i think it is very important that we pay more attention to ensuring that all children have the same opportunity to attend school and thus increase their chances of a better economic and more independent life.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. so when we talk about digital platforms and the collaborative economy, we're also entering into certain unpredictability, although of course this form of economy is becoming a reality. and precisely because it is a sort of sui generis phenomenon, it must be treated through its many influences. the impact on competitiveness, including so-called fair and unfair competition, the impact on the environment, the impact also on social and labour rights. there is also, of course, consumer protection and a question of responsibility. so, of course, i think that this system needs to be regulated appropriately to protect all these phenomena that this system of digital platforms and the collaborative economy can affect. it is clear, however, that if the development of this collaborative economy is not accompanied by development and adjustment in the field of labour and social rights, then of course the whole thing will turn into complete precarity, which then reduces the legal flexibility and social security of workers' rights. but i think that this is precisely why it is necessary to define that even in these relationships, the collaborative economy, the relationship between those who give, offer the possibility of action, and those who receive, must not act as a service, but above all as a working relationship.
madam president, dear colleagues, two weeks ago an official delegation of the committee on foreign affairs (afet), with seven members, visited azerbaijan, armenia and georgia. we met the highest state representatives from civil society and diplomacy. after a long period of interrupted dialogue with baku, caused by over-sensitive reactions to a similar urgency resolution some years ago, we received assurances of a strong interest in closer cooperation based upon common strategic interests and values. the delegation paid a visit to two places which symbolised the complexity of history and the present day: a camp for refugees from occupied nagorno karabakh near baku, and an armenian memorial for genocide in yerevan. the eu is offering to all countries of the caucasus a partnership based upon human rights, the rule of law and freedom of expression. this means that one single journalist or human rights defender in jail is one too many. negotiations with azerbaijan on the comprehensive partnership agreement has been started. open issues from these resolutions should be dealt with in this framework. i believe in active politics and diplomacy, therefore i cannot support this resolution, which still has too many question marks.
it is not often that the european commission makes financial aid, which is of course partly linked to a loan, conditional on the prior fulfilment of certain conditions. i think that's the right thing to do in the case of moldova. in particular, because the situation in moldova has not been rosy for several years, it is very dynamic, and also the demonstrations, the unrest two, three years ago, showed that moldova must embark on a new so-called democratic path and therefore decide where it wants to direct its future, the future of the generations to come. of course, some people are asking the question of whether moldova should turn to the east or to the west and to the european union, and this has been the attempt in the past, including, i would say, in the past, to contribute by means of financial aid to the decision to open moldova more to the european union, including through association or trade agreements. but something happened that wasn't good. that many funds have somehow been depleted and thus have not reached the purpose for which they were given. and that's why i think that it's really necessary to be vigilant in this part, in this package, that this part of the fight against corruption, freedom of speech, in a way also support for democracy, is the one that will of course be achieved with these means. i am therefore confident that the commission, through its instruments, will also be aware of and keep us informed of the progress made on these most critical points, so that we can say that moldova is on the right track, also in terms of accepting financial assistance.
in writing. today we have already heard that as employment increases, so do forms of underemployment. i'm concerned that under the guise of promoting entrepreneurship, it's becoming the predominant form of employment. unfortunately, new and atypical forms of employment are a reality that will be difficult to avoid. the most effective way to respond to this reality is to: 1. encourage policies to reduce the incidence of underemployment; 2. mitigate the effects of atypical forms of employment; 3. stimulate the economy. pre-retirement employment in society creates a negative vicious circle that has a long-term impact not only on the quality of life of individuals but also on the late financial independence of individuals, on the decline in births, on the (un) resolution of the housing problem, on lower pension benefits in the future, etc. it is therefore important to respond to such forms of employment as soon as possible.
dear prime minister, i know that you have done your best, in a situation where there is little or no attention among european governments to the situation of refugees, you have made progress. you have made progress in measures that are supposed to ensure the safety of europeans, less permeable borders, but unfortunately you have not made progress that would also ensure safe and legal routes for people fleeing war, that would keep the face of europe humane. thousands of people are fleeing libya today. i do not blame you, your hospitable island, i blame all those responsible who today complain most that european policies do not work, but at the same time contribute least to the search for common solutions. these are the people who are the biggest underminers of european unity. the situation in italy is very serious. adopting a european migration policy that works must go hand in hand with specific measures for economic growth and jobs for europeans. but without solidarity and accountability from all governments to manage migration, without a fundamental overhaul of the asylum system, we will also be wasting the good that europe has built. mr. prime minister, our results count when people are living better: in malta, in slovenia or in turkey, syria and libya. you said that the time had come for a decision for all, for all member states to decide whether they respected european values. i agree with you, let us work together to make sure that every young man on our continent can proudly say that he is a european.
the business environment is, of course, very demanding, the competition is fierce, and only the best survive. to be better than their competitors, companies use a variety of methods that may be legal but not necessarily moral. and the legislator, which is us in this case, is the one who sets clear rules, and we're responsible for making sure those rules are fair. i hope that the reporting obligation we are introducing will provide greater transparency and help to ensure that taxes are actually paid where they are due. at the same time, we must also make sure that the obligations of companies operating in the european union are comparable to those of companies in the rest of the world. what we have on the table today is, of course, a compromise that has taken us a step forward, but in my estimation, we are still far from tax justice.
we are talking today about how to make the commission more efficient. yes, a quality social agenda that goes hand in hand with thoughtful economic measures is a prerequisite for reducing unemployment. yes, we will only achieve sustainable development if we respond together to the challenges of climate change and globalisation, and yes, the union will be a leading global power if we speak with one voice. but the commission will achieve absolutely nothing without a consistent respect for values. and the slovenian citizens are well on their way to losing confidence in the commission. after having voted against the arbitration agreement between slovenia and croatia and participated in the decision that this was part of the croatian accession package, the commission is now undecided. why do you not say out loud, mr timmermans, that this is simply a matter of respect for international and european law? to honor the distinguished international judges, the border between the states was approved a few days ago. and this is what we, the citizens, may fear most when we feel that the commission is working in the interests of certain countries or individuals or groups rather than in the interests of all the citizens of the european union. it will be too late for any work programme and for quality policies. thank you so much.
we are at a time when we are talking about the future of the european union. we know that one member state is leaving the european union, and we are talking about the future financial framework. when we talk about the future financial framework, the key objective must be to make the european union one. i am convinced that this is the most important thing, and that is why we must continue to invest in both cohesion and agricultural funds, and certainly help those who are making it more difficult for them to live in the harsh conditions of the market. public spending in europe, if eur 50 is public spending in europe, is only eur 1 within the european union. so i think it is fair to say that in such situations we will simply have to increase the contribution rate by a small percentage, i.e. to channel more funds through the european union, either through the contribution of the states or through specific taxes. i am convinced that this is a real investment and that it is a real added value for the european union, because it will make us more united, stronger and more successful.
we all have human nature, but we express it through different cultures. we're in trouble when our differences overshadow our fundamental and basic equality. it is therefore important that the european union, as a force for peace, promotes a peace-oriented dialogue between cultures, at local, regional, national and global levels. the mutual respect of cultural identities is a prerequisite for progress in this dialogue. i am convinced that more intercultural dialogue can make a significant contribution to greater understanding, cooperation and peace in the world. the brok/costa report is welcomed in this respect.
i myself join those colleagues who stress that the report is critical enough to reveal the path turkey is taking and that it must also be a serious warning to the european parliament and the european union that we have on the other side a so-called partner who does not meet the standards expected of a democratic society. in the last year, the situation in turkey has changed dramatically in many areas and cannot, of course, be a source of pride for democracy. i therefore believe that the european parliament cannot remain silent on this matter either. colleagues before me have spoken about so-called political prisoners, about persecuted journalists, about closed groups, even about fired teachers, as if it were a purge, a total takeover, which could be a dangerous example for the wider region.
i strongly support the establishment of a 44 billion european fund for sustainable development for africa, with which we want to improve the situation on this continent. we know that africa is a continent with a lot of poverty, a continent that lacks basic infrastructure, lacks economic infrastructure, but on the other hand, it's also a continent that has a lot of war, a lot of corruption. it is therefore right to direct these funds towards development projects that will create new jobs, while also taking care of the environment, since environmental problems are also increasing in africa as the population increases. after all, we are solving the key problem that we are facing today, which is migration flows, in the right way. if we don't start to address this problem at its source, we're not going to be successful in this process. and the fact that africa will double its population by 2050 is a clear sign that there will always be great pressure unless the situation in africa is better than it is today.
the trust of eu citizens in the european institutions is not as high as they would like. and i think we also have to show by our actions that we care about the european union and, of course, about the european institutions and rationality. even after the severe economic crisis, when we imposed austerity measures on many countries, which still have enormous consequences, we still spend 114 million a year on moving from one seat to another, which represents over 6% of the european parliament's budget. my colleagues have already been told of other effects, which are not negligible. so i think it's worth reconsidering whether these moves are really rational and whether we might be encouraging additional anger at the expense of abortion, and i think we need to have a serious discussion as responsible people.
aviation is the sector where greenhouse gas emissions are growing the fastest. if we're talking about two to three percent on a global scale, five percent on a european scale, we have to realize that this is about a quarter or even a third of what agriculture produces that feeds all of humanity. it is therefore essential that the aviation sector also takes the approach of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and as has already been discussed today, as has been stated in the report and as the commission's position is very clear, europe, as the one leading this pioneering battle in the environmental field, cannot win this battle alone. i therefore support the report's approach, the commission's approach, to try to win over the major polluters in this field, namely the united states, china and india, by our example and by our active work. we can succeed together, but we have to be the leaders.
draft opinion of the committee on agriculture. the lulucf regulation addresses the importance of agricultural land and forest use for climate change. agriculture, or plantation through photosynthesis, firstly, does not use very much co2, and secondly, forests also accumulate stocks, which can eventually be a quality source for building material or even for energy use. in this document, we support the guidance given by envi that great care should be taken in the sustainable use of forests, as an ageing forest, which is also not cut down enough, can play the opposite role. i come from slovenia, where the cutting rate was only 37% of the increase between 2000 and 2009. therefore, such a solution, which also allows for an increase in the cutting rate, is sustainable, since the use as it has been so far would have the opposite effect. i support such a flexible approach and that the state and the commission agree on the individual use, as is also possible in the amendments.
the reporter. in july, the committee on culture adopted by 24 votes to none the report entitled 'academic further and distance education as part of the european lifelong learning strategy'. i would like to highlight the fruitful cooperation with almost all political groups. obviously, education connects, especially when it comes to topics as good as these two that i'm combining in this report. it is not particularly emphasised that education and training are the mirror of society. it contributes not only to the maturation of individuals and individuals but also to the formation of human capital and society as a whole. education has been high on the european agenda for many years, although it is widely recognised that it is a matter for the sovereign policies of the member states. the european union has long promoted the quality and efficiency of the member states' school systems. it has therefore developed a series of mechanisms to make education more comparable and of higher quality, and a series of programmes to provide financial support for education and training. i would like to draw particular attention to the success story of what we call erasmus+, but we will talk about it later in this plenary. the concept of lifelong learning is based on the recognition that in today's dynamic, complex and technologically increasingly demanding society, which is fraught with risks, lifelong learning is essential, whether formal, informal or casual. in the report i highlighted the need for further academic education in the field of vocational education and training. all successful graduates must have access to additional educational pathways where participants can further develop their skills. ladies and gentlemen, poor access to educational opportunities can lead to a decrease in people's competitiveness on the labour market, problems in their private lives, but also to a permanent passivity, exclusion from the social environment and also, as can be seen in recent years, violent radicalisation, especially of young people who are vulnerable in risky situations. access to education is therefore a standard that must be enforced everywhere, but this is not the case in practice. many have such problems, for example, young mothers who find it difficult to balance family, perhaps even work, obligations with educational ones. lower-class people find it difficult to afford the education they want, especially if it's too expensive. it is also difficult for someone from peripheral regions to afford to study in desirable university destinations that are not close enough. even for individuals who are classified as having special needs, participation in the classical so-called residential mode of study is often impossible. this is why distance learning is so important in ensuring easier access to everything, which is one of the most important goals of education and training in general. in short, distance learning can improve access for all, without discrimination on the basis of country, region, social status, age or gender. distance learning also significantly reduces costs for the provider and the participant. distance learning therefore also allows for greater personalisation of study, as it is less uniform and more tailored to the needs and potential of the student. this will help to increase efficiency and reduce the rate of rash, which is still a major problem in europe. the process of digitalisation is also unstoppable in education, especially in distance learning. in this context, the european union's assistance in developing a single and user-friendly digital platform or digital classroom is also of great importance. today, there are open universities around the world that bring together these digital classrooms with hundreds of thousands of participants from dozens of countries around the world. the union should also adopt more rapidly good practices already established in the world. and one last sentence. in fact, this report speaks to the future of education from two important perspectives: if we want a knowledge-based economy and, consequently, a knowledge-based society, it is essential that the school systems in the member states are open to new challenges.
there is no doubt that without resolving the situation in africa and the middle east, we will not be able to stop the deaths of people fleeing to the european continent. and that without global cooperation, without politicians with vision and courage, we will not succeed, so thank you. we repeat that we need a common migration and asylum policy, but we seem to be moving away from it or forgetting about the humanity and dignity of migrants and refugees. the european court of justice in luxembourg ruled against slovakia and hungary, which do not participate in the scheme for the transfer of beneficiaries of international protection from italy and greece. the deadline for the relocation of 160,000 people expires at the end of september. what action will the commission take? the czech republic, poland and hungary are still not cooperating. the last one is asking for money for the fence. austria with the army on the schengen border with slovenia still exercises control. what are these messages, fellas? if we don't fix things in europe, we won't have the credibility to fix them anywhere else in the world. and to push the problems onto libyan soil without ensuring human rights is unacceptable. you mentioned safe and legal routes, but there are no new proposals. the fight against organized crime is key. more than 300 people arrived in cyprus on saturday, each paying $2,000 to smugglers. and it seems to me that we're continuing here our efforts for what you yourself mentioned, for opportunity for all people everywhere. for life.
migration and terrorism have been the top concerns of the european public for two years, according to opinion polls. a total of 68% of europeans, as well as slovenes, want a common migration policy. this climate needs to be translated into a citizens' demand for politicians and institutions to respond or act accordingly. citizens do not want anyone to invite migrants and refugees to europe, they do not want the european institutions and the member states to give up when it comes to protecting the external borders. people don't want to be slow to react and to put out fires, like debating whether quotas should be permanent or temporary, mandatory or optional, and so on. when we're just talking about it, it means we're reacting badly to the situation, and so are we all. but people want proactive policies, crisis prevention, they want governments to be more proactive, for example in completing frontex. people want order and respect for union law, including the return of persons not eligible for international protection. it's not fair that migrant workers take the place of those refugees who need help. and finally, what does the european public expect from migration policy-makers and institutions? she expects to be guaranteed fundamental rights, such as security and dignity, not only for migrants but also for herself. he expects all who come to respect their values and their way of life. at the same time, he expects that any newcomers who are not ready to integrate or even engage in crime, will be denied hospitality...
mr president juncker, congratulations on your speech! three critical issues are close to my heart, and they are rule of law, youth and the western balkans. the rule of law is not a la carte, you said, the rule of law, the judgments of the courts must be respected. are they respected today in hungary, poland, even croatia? if the states cannot arbitrarily dictate what they will and will not do and respect, then i hope the commission will act. it is also the way to restore citizens' trust in the union. the young people are becoming very disinterested, they are witnessing irresponsible politicians, they are high unemployment, they have no real perspective. they are particularly hard-pressed in the western balkan countries, and i count on your commitment to a credible enlargement policy, as this part of europe is becoming a dangerous arena of geostrategic interests. there must be no second-class citizens and second-class countries in europe, and that is why we are investing in a europe which, as you said, will not be a fortress, which will not be a continent enclosed in fences, which will not be a fortress of intolerance and hatred, and my greatest wish is that in this europe, the same as yours, we will breathe together again with full lungs.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. so this directive, which we are voting on tomorrow, is a very important document, because it affects more than 80 million europeans, which is almost 15% of the total population, but this figure will increase over the years as europe grows old and the elderly increase year by year. this requires a document that is sufficiently ambitious and that will be in force for a large number of years. but i regret that this document is not ambitious enough to take account of everything that has been communicated to us, even by those most affected by it. they have reported that there are a number of important things missing to make their daily lives easier, so we have introduced a number of amendments to take account of their requests, the requests of the disabled, to improve this document, and with these amendments we want to contribute to making this document a document for a longer period of time. let us also consider that this document is an offer of a hand, the hand of an inclusive society, to which europe is naturally committed through its documents and through its fundamental principles, as president juncker has also said today, and vote for our amendments too, and many europeans will be grateful to you.
the general consensus is that erasmus+ is a success story, that it is the most positive european project. we could feel it in the summer when we celebrated the 30th anniversary of erasmus. as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur for erasmus+, i am naturally very pleased about this. i could go on and on about the benefits it brings to participants, universities, the economy, local communities and, consequently, europe as a whole. but we have to look at the other side of this. the total budget allocated to education, youth and sport in the european union remains a relatively small share of the total multiannual financial framework, at 1.36%. during this budget period, around 4 million people, i.e. less than 1% of the population, are expected to participate in the various erasmus+ programmes. but the existing budget is far from covering all the interest. the success rate, which reflects the ratio between applications and projects accepted or implemented, is significantly too low in some parts of the erasmus+ programme, at just 26%. therefore, the gap between the limited budgetary possibilities and the broad potential of the programme will need to be further addressed in the future. and there's only one way to do that: by increasing the budget.
in writing. the new skills agenda for europe is a long-awaited initiative that is urgently needed in this period. not only in my country, but also in the eu as a whole, there is a gap between european education systems and the economic and social environment. the labour market is dynamic, and the education system is often rigid. it is therefore essential to move towards a pan-european tool for forecasting skills needs. the economy needs a boost, as does a good and skilled workforce. i therefore support this report, as i believe it is important to go beyond relevant vocational skills and to focus also on those aspects of education that can foster entrepreneurial thinking and creativity, enable people to think critically, make informed decisions and participate fully in democratic and social life.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. it's true what my colleagues said about moldova. we have spoken a great deal in recent times, but the situation has not improved, and i have reason to ask myself whether it makes sense to send funds to moldova for its development and assistance, when those funds are disappearing, when even the funds from the bank, which are a big scandal, still do not receive the appropriate label after so much time. the problem in moldova is only getting worse and corruption is increasing, and the situation in the field of media freedom and freedom of speech is not ideal and is getting worse. the ngos also talk about the massive violation of human rights and, in fact, about the politics of exclusion, about arrests, which of course have nothing to do with democracy and, of course, with a fair trial. and these are the signals that the european parliament must also act on. i am also convinced that parliament must play its part in this situation, and i agree with mr predo, who also proposes that representatives of the european parliament should be involved in this monitoring of the situation in moldova or that a special mission should be sent to examine all these allegations.
mr. president, there are two things i think we all agree on around the world. first, that we are the cause of the climate change that is causing the problems that we are seeing, whether in the caribbean or in europe. secondly, europe was the first to recognise its obligation and its role in the field of green economies and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. we have a number of policies, whether it's the transition and the strategy to move to a circular economy, where we talk about resource efficiency. we have already made a lot of progress in the field of energy, we are increasingly moving towards renewable energy sources in the field of energy efficiency, and we still need to make a big step forward in the field of transport. i'm also glad that polluters like china are following the european example, which has stopped building new power plants altogether, and that china is already producing more wind energy than all of europe combined. we will do our best by example and we must persevere on this path.
mr. chairman, so, how far can a corporation, a company, go to make a profit, in this case an airline? can this profit-making also include this exploitation of pilots and, of course, cabin crew, which this company puts in a position that is contrary to labour standards and relations? so in this quest for profit, is it proper and justified to deceive travelers and cancel thousands upon thousands of flights? and of course, all of this raises a legitimate security issue. and if, of course, ryanair estimates the total cost of its resignations at less than 50 million euros, but says that this will not change the forecast of annual net profit of about 1.4 billion euros, it means that this behaviour is worth it, but i think that it is the european commission and, of course, the european parliament that must react to this and, of course, adopt the appropriate sanctions.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97) for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97) the commission has, of course, exceeded its mandate by proposing to exclude certain chemicals from the definition of endocrine disruptors because the criteria would make it so difficult to identify endocrine disruptors, which means that very few products would be removed from the market, which of course benefits the industry. which means, of course, that we would again put the health of the people before the interests of capital. we have repeatedly warned that these disruptors are substances which can alter the functioning of the hormonal system of humans and are extremely dangerous and represent, in a way, a global threat, and i therefore welcome once again the decision of parliament to veto this.
this time last year, migrants woke up on the island of lesbos in deep snow. temperatures have dropped to almost minus 18 degrees. some of them have been trapped on the greek islands for almost two years. and european leaders insist that the deal with turkey is working and that you will close the central mediterranean route along the western balkan route. instead of funding and training the libyan coastguard and also working to find safe and legal pathways for people who are eligible for international protection, you are focusing on how to stop migrants from reaching europe. instead of doing little or nothing, we could be doing something about radically reforming the european asylum system. we passed a good proposal in parliament last week, which would no longer place the burden solely on the country of entry. we agreed that a permanent and automatic mechanism for the relocation of people, in which all member states would participate, was necessary. we now expect european governments to do the same. because of the ineffective european asylum policy, we have internal border controls in a number of schengen countries. in may this year, commissioner avramopulos said that austria, germany, denmark, sweden and norway would only be able to extend internal controls once more, and that it would be the last time. six months later, austria maintains internal controls on the border with slovenia, for which there is absolutely no reason. so your conclusions, honourable members, that you are committed to schengen are not sincere and i regret that this is so.
a european political community between the different peoples and cultures of europe presupposes mutual understanding and responsibility and strives to preserve the cultural diversity and cultural identity of europe. and it's up to us to carefully preserve it for future generations. efforts to increase controls at the external borders and to reduce illegal flows along the mediterranean route must be consolidated and refocused on a long-term vision. this will require enhanced cooperation with countries of origin and transit. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's asylum policy and its implementation in the member states. europe must prepare itself for the challenges of digital technology. we need to remove all the barriers and constraints faced by citizens and digital and start-up businesses in order to make the most of the full potential offered by digital development.
so, isn't it enough to put whistleblowers on the witness stand and make necessary sacrifices, like the case of the murder of a brilliant journalist recently, the malta case and the panama papers. so, will there be any need for new victims before we can get down to protecting whistleblowers in europe? the green party already proposed in 2016 the adoption of a directive to regulate the field of whistleblowers and to offer them adequate legal protection, anonymity and appropriate mechanisms, which would also mean greater security in their operations, since whistleblowers detect more than 40% of all cases of financial fraud. they are therefore a very important element of the right to know principle. and that is why i once again call on the commission to adopt, as soon as possible, appropriate legislation to protect them, which can be approved by the european parliament, and thus prevent new victims and new forms of bullying.
in writing. dear members, in reviewing the 2018 european commission work programme, i can see that it largely reflects the needs of the times and addresses the challenges facing the european union in the coming year and beyond. however, it should be stressed at this point that the programme does not meet expectations related to demographic change in europe, intergenerational cooperation, an ageing society and, of course, the position of older people in society. i think the program is a little under-ambitious in this area. i am pleased to see a trend in the european parliament where more and more meps are recognising that demographic change and the rights of older people in europe are areas that will present one of the greatest challenges for the member states and the european union. the commission has also received comments from interested parties. the rights of the elderly are about dignity and they are basic human rights that are universal or, if you like, european. the principle of subsidiarity cannot therefore be a reason for not doing what eu citizens expect to be done in this area at european union level. i therefore call on the european commission to pay more attention to the challenge of ageing societies and finally to work with the member states to develop and adopt a strategy that responds to demographic change at european level. the old ones deserve it!
the european union is facing many challenges, and we need a budget that is not a tiger without wings. the budget must respond to the challenges arising from the complex geopolitical environment, the still weak economy in the european union as well as supporting the european union's readiness for the future. i'm supporting additional funding for safety and youth. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders. young people still face serious problems in finding employment, raising a family and dealing with housing problems. helping young people to become self-sufficient is an investment in our future and in the future of the european union. but i am against the reduction in funding that the council wants for research, innovation and infrastructure investment. eur 500 million today for horizon 2020 is less than if european researchers were to park on the tarmac.
thank you, chairman, for allowing me to speak on this subject. i am the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on erasmus+ and i feel obliged to thank all those colleagues who supported the increase of the next budget in the field of erasmus+, which is actually a success story, it works well. the programme has been very successful over the past three years and is, in some ways, the best investment in the future of the european union. however, in some sub-programmes, the success rate is still relatively low, with up to 24% of applications accepted in some cases, which means that more than three quarters of applications are rejected, which is not good. so the potential of erasmus+ is much greater than the current financial capacity of the european institutions, so thank you again to all of you who supported the increase in the budget for erasmus+.
in writing. more than 100000 people die every year in the european union from the consequences of work-related cancer. we have been waiting for over 10 years for the legislation to change in this area. the revision of the existing rules will also ensure greater protection for workers. we require comprehensive screening of workers, even after they retire, as some symptoms don't show up until years after they've been exposed to the risk. we need to minimize exposure to cancer-causing substances. any new research that reveals new risks needs to be incorporated into legislation.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to thank the rapporteur, agustin de mera, for his excellent cooperation, as well as the other shadow rapporteurs and the team. we have had more than four years of intensive negotiations, exchanges of views and field visits. we are facing one of the most difficult, technically and politically sensitive files as well as one of the most financially difficult projects to be introduced in the european union from 2020. the new system is designed to europeanise border management and adapt it to the needs of the 21st century. the journey was very long, and there were many things that the reporter and i disagreed on. i'm still very concerned that the primary purpose of this new technology is not to manage and facilitate border crossings. increasingly, it seems that the fight against terrorism has become the overriding objective. the discussions were conducted largely on the basic assumption that any traveller arriving in europe is a potential criminal or terrorist who must be prevented from entering. despite the often difficult situation in the speeches, we in the socialist and democratic group managed to prevent the worst in the text of the regulation. shortened to... we have managed to establish a significant separation between passenger categories, to reduce the retention time of data, to further restrict access for law enforcement authorities and to reduce costs. but despite parliament's call, on the other hand, there was little understanding for greater protection of individuals' privacy, for a single system including non-schengen countries, and for the abolition of separate visa agreements, which upend the basic purpose of residence in the union. under great political pressure from the member states, we are introducing this system into the schengen legal order, which i would say is quite a mess. i regret that the power of argument and reason, in the current situation in europe and the rise of populism, has largely been replaced by the argument of incomprehension and power. we run the risk that, to some extent, the quality of legislation will be overtaken by the quantity. unfortunately, there was no hearing in parliament for further consideration. what particularly burdens me these days, and i frankly admit it, is the european court's decision in july that the agreement between canada and the union on the transfer of passenger data violates fundamental rights. under the agreement, the information would be kept for five years, which is no longer consistent with the needs of the fight against terrorism. unfortunately, the doubts about data retention have not been removed in this compromise on the table. that is why the socialists and democrats, with their amendment, propose to reduce the retention period for bona fide passengers to 178 days. it is a sensible move and i call on my colleagues to support it in the vote at noon. smart borders, ladies and gentlemen, will only be smart if the measures are proportionate, effective and above all, friendly to passengers. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 1628))
question asked by raising the blue card. i would just like to ask my colleague, the honourable colleague fajonova, whether this is her personal position, or the position of the socialist and democratic group.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. as i mentioned in my speech, my group has always supported the introduction of the entry/exit system. we have managed to provide some positive elements, but the introduction of this system is to some extent a risk, because it is becoming primarily a system, a mechanism in the fight against terrorism. i want us to be reasonable, to have technology that is proportionate, that is primarily aimed at the goal. this is easier travel for passengers entering and leaving the european union (the president interrupted) and at the same time safer borders.
i strongly condemn any form of sexual harassment. we must have zero tolerance for these despicable acts. sexual harassment is a problem that cannot be ignored, for this does not reduce or eliminate the problem. it's important that victims speak out and then be properly protected. in fact, there is often a fear of losing one's job and stigmatizing the victim. therefore, a proper approach and awareness-raising in terms of identifying sexual harassment is important. we need swift and decisive action, both at the level of the european parliament and at the level of the courts. i therefore welcome the fact that this important subject is being discussed in this plenary session. we can't keep this quiet. we must protect human dignity and human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, on behalf of the s&d group, under rule 59(3) of the parliament’s rules of procedure, i request that the plenary vote on the amendments before the final vote on the provisional agreement.
whether we admit it or not, the roma are of course an important part of european culture and values and of course they contribute to the visibility of the cultural wealth, the common history of the union. so it is of course very important what kind of relationship and what kind of harmony we create with this community at the different ends of the european union, that is, in the different countries. but above all, i am committed to, and i think it is very important, refraining from any violence and trying to prevent violence against the roma community and encouraging young people to understand that roma are also part of the wider european area and that, in fact, by living together, we strengthen not only the cultural but also the culture of living together, which is also a characteristic of the european union.
mr president, it is a very important debate, but look around the room: there are, what, 50 colleagues here? the european governments are focusing on pushbacks to the mediterranean. we are not seriously addressing the despair of thousands of migrants that are crossing the mediterranean. almost half of them do not get international protection in europe – that is what really worries me. thank you, mr salvini, for stressing the importance of opening safer and legal ways to europe for people that are in need for international protection. but your group, which bases itself on anti-immigrant and xenophobic rhetoric, does not match your words with actions. you constantly vote against the european solutions that we are working on in this house too. it is clear that italy cannot handle the situation alone. it is clear that we need a true european asylum system. we did our job here in the parliament, and i blame the european governments for not moving forward. yes, we have to improve our policy of return, but it can only be successful if we also establish efficient resettlement schemes. what about the fund for africa? members states promised the money, but where is this money today? what about the smugglers? we have the measures to fight against human trafficking. where their smuggling profits going to? the mediterranean remains a deadly sea, and i have to say, seriously, that i am ashamed of that.
migration is the most pressing issue facing the european public, next to terrorism. we must understand this as an order to politicians to do everything possible to curb illegal migration. statistics show that we have been somewhat more successful in the fight against illegal migrants and smugglers in particular over the last year and a half. many hide behind ngos and recruit migrants for lucrative businesses. effective control of the external border is becoming an existential issue for the european union. we have recently adopted a number of measures such as the smart border package, reforming the asylum system, strengthening, albeit slowly, the european border and coast guard. we certainly need to increase the resilience of the union and the member states to future crises. there is a real possibility that the balkan route will be reopened. the system of return from greece to turkey is not working well because the greek authorities are not able to process secondary complaints concerning applications for international protection. as a result, capacity on the islands is being dangerously reduced. as a result, the possibility of moving to the greek mainland and then, of course, further north is reopened. smugglers recruiting in turkey are back in action. how unstable relations are with the turkish government we know anyway. the balkan countries should therefore be alerted to the danger of new waves of illegal migration. i hope that the union and its member states will respond differently this time to this deal, which benefits only the smugglers and the countries that have been destabilising the european union for a long time.
let me begin by congratulating you on your work, both on behalf of the commission and the rapporteur, and expressing my support for the proposed document, which aims to improve the territorial typology, that is to say, to give us better information about what is actually happening on the ground. we live in an age of digitization, an age of information, and we can process that information better and better. regional development must not be spontaneous, because if it happens spontaneously without us having any influence on it, we will continue to have increasing problems, both in urban centres and in rural areas. on the one hand, as already mentioned, overpopulation, daily migration, air pollution, on the other hand, depopulation of the countryside, less economic activity and many environmental problems in the countryside. recently, there has also been a lot of activity in the field of organising processes in cities, in the framework of the so-called smart cities, and some of us have also recently launched activities around smart villages, i.e. organising processes in rural areas, processes where we will be able to improve the quality of life in rural areas, in cities and also the coexistence of these important cells of our society, with all the information we will get, including better eurostat data. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162.8))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. it is certainly possible, with more data and also with the guidelines we are also implementing in the context of smart specialisation, to do exactly that, to combine the potentials that the regions have, to make synergy of these potentials, on the one hand, by linking the institutions, research, which are the generator of innovation, and on the other hand, also by linking small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, local communities and the population. and i am convinced that this is the right direction and that this is how we will make europe a more successful region. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162.8))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. as i said, and thank you tibor for this question, we are working together on the smart village and by getting more information, more data, we can really get into these micro issues that are sometimes very important. today, within a single nuts 3 unit, let alone in larger nuts 2 units, there are so many different micro-locations, micro-problems, that we simply do not perceive them enough. in this way, when we reduce this territorial coverage to smaller units, we will certainly have input data with which to better and more efficiently manage the problems in these micro units.
i certainly support mr koch's report, which also comes at a time when the commissioner, whom i welcome and am also pleased to see supporting this report, is preparing the third mobility package. the death toll is dropping, so in europe, we heard, on european roads. slovenia is also showing a similar trend, although unfortunately, the decline has been halted in recent years and we need to do more to reduce the number of victims. the fact is that man is the cause of most accidents, we need good... proper infrastructure, to pay attention to those who are most vulnerable in this traffic, that is to say pedestrians and cyclists, to provide additional cycle paths, while at the same time incorporating these new technologically advanced technologies into cars as much as possible, because we all try these technologies in some way and we know that they help us a lot. that is why i very much support this package, i think it is very important and the european parliament, the european commission have already done a lot in this area and it is right that we continue to do so in the future.
online shopping for goods and services is increasing day by day. consumers have changed their shopping habits dramatically in the last decade, as recently as asian black friday, when online purchases on alibaba were up to 256,000 a second. but when it comes to financial services, we still have some serious concerns. in addition to the concerns, there are also a number of barriers to trade, such as the lack of knowledge of the laws of other countries, the transparency of foreign currency conversion, consumer protection rules and technological barriers. our common objective is the single market, and i support all efforts to get as close as possible to it, including in the area of financial services. i believe that this would also be a major incentive in this area to bring down prices, and i welcome this commission action plan.
we are proud that one of the european union's greatest achievements is the free movement of people. we also encourage it with many supporting projects, which is of course also evident with each new financial perspective. but it is important for the future of the member states and for the future of europe to ask ourselves who is coming into our countries and who is leaving. in 2015, almost 15,000 people left slovenia, many of them young and educated. however, in search of employment, some 5500 people with relatively lower education moved back to slovenia, of whom 3300 were from non-eu countries. i wonder what development potential countries like slovenia have left, and there is not enough talk about the brain drain that will mark our future. this means that there will also be a two-speed europe in the future.
we're all upset when we hear about a new affair, but it never ends. and we cannot say that we have done nothing at european level to prevent tax evasion, but we clearly still have a very large margin of manoeuvre. while we can do a lot with legislation, we also need to do a lot with control and sanctions, and this is where the rule of law comes in. without it, it's all for nothing. i support greater transparency, limiting unconditional tax secrecy and blacklists, but these lists must not be an end in themselves. in my view, however, the causes of tax avoidance should also be addressed in this context. of course, we do not support crime or tax evasion. if the law allows a company to avoid paying taxes at all, then it's not fair. however, countries should be careful to design their tax systems and not use their systems to drive businesses elsewhere.
on behalf of the s&d group. the brutal murder of daphne caruana galizia has raised a number of questions about media freedom. freedom of speech and the press are key to the existence of a democracy, so these issues are of particular concern to me. my maltese colleagues assure me that the government is doing everything possible to investigate the murder, involving independent international experts and organisations. i applaud that. i also welcome the modernisation and radical substantive changes in the media and other laws, in particular those on defamation, the protection of whistleblowers, the abolition of censorship of artistic works and the financing of political parties. the murder also raised questions about corruption, particularly at the political top, money laundering, the involvement of politicians in scandals, the role of banks, worrying reports of the sale of citizenship and the politicization of some public institutions. and we expect answers to all these questions. however, i cannot condone the strongly exaggerated reactions of colleagues, especially from the epp, who, after the murder of the journalists, announce that the rule of law and the system in malta have collapsed. i disagree with you, fellas. the fact is that many countries in the european union are facing a narrowing of the space for media freedom, corruption, involvement in financial scandals and a decline in the independence of the judiciary, civil society activities. only in the case of hungary or poland, which have quite a few serious systemic problems in ensuring fundamental rights, is it clear that we can have a common legitimate concern about the functioning of the rule of law. at this point, it is important firstly that the maltese government transparently conducts and presents the murder investigation and cooperates with the member states and the eu institutions in addressing all the concerns mentioned above, and secondly that we are united in the fight for the rule of law and the care of citizens and that we use the same tools in all countries. (the speaker rejected the question with the blue card raised by paulo rangel)
first, allow me to express my heartfelt condolences to the family of daphne galizia, who was brutally murdered for her courageous and honest journalistic work. it's even harder to accept her death when we know that this act could have been prevented. it seems and we hear today that malta is having problems with the rule of law and a worsening situation in the area of media freedom. this act sent a terrible and clear message to corruption and crime investigators and investigative journalists. it's well known that intimidation is the way the mob works. but if the judiciary, the police and the media are not truly independent and resilient, then we already have a systemic problem. but malta is no exception. recently, a parliamentary inquiry commission in slovenia uncovered a case of large-scale money laundering. some of them used the biggest bank in slovenia and seven years ago, they laundered a billion euros for the benefit of the iranian regime, which was allegedly used to finance terrorism. the chairman of this commission of inquiry, dr. anjeet logar, and his parents were publicly threatened with death by a radical leftist. jožeć možina, a prominent journalist, was also threatened with death a few days ago, and before that, politician janez janša. but nothing happens. where does it lead? where do all these threats go? some member states are clearly not able to ensure the security of their citizens on their own, and i therefore call on the union to act more quickly in such special situations, to open a structured dialogue with governments and thus protect those at risk. in conclusion, i would like to thank the president of the european parliament for naming the press centre in the european parliament after daphne yesterday.
freedom of the media is a pillar of modern democratic societies. today's debate on the rule of law in malta shows that the european parliament is not silent when it comes to defending freedom of speech and media pluralism. in 2001, slovenian journalist mirota petka was found beaten to death outside his home in an attempted murder. journalist miro petek wrote about the machinations of the new credit bank maribor, a local economy intertwined with the political and capital interests of individuals. the slovak state has not been able to detect and punish the attackers until today. the murder of journalist galizia is a black day for democracy. in addition to strongly condemning such deplorable acts, we must demand an independent international investigation into the murder and call on the maltese authorities to protect media freedom, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
in writing. daphne caruana galizia was a journalist who investigated political scandals in malta. the investigation into her death was assigned to the judge who investigated him. is this the rule of law? daphne caruana galizia has exposed the corruption of maltese politics. her death has shown the extent of corruption in this democratic member state and the lack of accountability. is this the rule of law? all of this reminds me of my country, slovenia. in slovenia too, we are witnessing corruption that has its tentacles high in the national hierarchy. in slovenia, as in malta, no one has resigned. we have one of the worst judicial systems in the eu. the people who were in positions of power during the great money laundering and iran business scandal are now in the role of investigators who discover that there was no wrongdoing in the nlb business. my friends, what is this, the rule of law for you?
i've spent some time in africa, and i know that we're not just doing these strategies for the abidjan summit. this strategy is not only about the future of africa, it is also essential for the future of the european union. i welcome the comprehensive strategic approach to africa and congratulate my colleague pongi on his commitment. i want all our political and financial resources to be used in a more coordinated and efficient way. i'm advocating that we also support more the non-governmental sector that works for the good of africa, and in some places, it's only the non-governmental sector that's effective because the government departments don't work. and i would also say, let's not be too bureaucratic about it. let's join the project to clear the sahara and pay more attention to the effects of climate change in africa.
mr president, this is a very heated debate, and it is sad and very disappointing to hear that some of our colleagues simply do not want to notice all the systematic problems that are destroying democracy in poland. mr legutko left the debate – so much for dialogue. that is exactly what we are criticising: the lack of an open dialogue. we are interested in the situation in poland, we are worried – that is why we are holding a debate today. i have many friends in poland and i stand here today for them. we are calling on the polish government to respect democracy and constitutional rights, to ensure the freedom of the media and to defend the independent judiciary. we will call for article 7 of the eu treaty to be triggered. we will continue on our course for an open dialogue with the polish government. the eu is not à la carte, the government cannot just pick and choose. we are debating the rule of law and not rule by law. i sincerely hope that today we can send a strong message to our polish friends and citizens: we want you in the eu, poland has always been part of europe and always will be.
on behalf of the s&d group. winter is upon us. the situation of refugees and migrants on the greek islands is intolerable. we have allocated a good billion euros to greece, why are refugees, migrants still not given decent living conditions? there are no proper reception centers on the islands, and registration procedures are slow. people are actually trapped there. the next few months could therefore prove to be crucial for the numbers, especially for the most vulnerable, women and children. i therefore call on greece, the commission and the european governments to act together with the many humanitarian and philanthropic organisations that are literally saving lives on the islands. member states must stop returning migrants to the greek islands. the people on the islands must be moved to the mainland immediately. this deal with turkey is really not working in anyone's favor. with the closure of the western balkans route, organised human trafficking has increased, with criminals profiting from human suffering. moreover, five countries, including austria and germany, have again asked for the extension of internal border controls without any arguments, and this is not a return to schengen, as you announced, mr commissioner, but an even greater departure from the freedom of movement on european soil. the reform of the asylum system is at a standstill. and as long as we understand the dimensions of migration and refugee flows here, and leaders do things differently at home, we can forget about how to effectively manage migration in europe.
i welcome the initiative, in particular the proposals to reduce emissions, to encourage change in the automotive industry and among users, and to increase the use of rail in freight transport. in europe, the automotive industry is associated with as many as 12.6 million jobs, and in slovenia it employs 24,000 people. we can't care what her future is. the new standards and targets give the industry a clear signal and incentive to adapt to the new conditions in order to remain competitive and safeguard jobs. the shift of freight from roads is not only necessary because of emissions, but also because of congestion and destroyed roads and accidents. this is particularly important for transit countries such as slovenia. the possibility of financial incentives is good, but many member states, including slovenia, will have to do their part of the domestic task of establishing the appropriate railway infrastructure. finally, the public sector must be a catalyst for positive change. however, there will be no greater spread of clean vehicles as long as the journey is inflexible and must be adapted to the location of the charging stations.
it is a very important subject, it is in fact about our future in many areas, and i think that what has been presented touches on many areas. the environment, of course, the energy, infrastructure, transport sectors, but also the social and many other sectors will be affected. i am therefore naturally particularly interested in how the commission will manage to bring all these segments, this whole sector, together in a coherent whole, which can then lead to the achievement of the objectives we have set ourselves, which could of course also be more ambitious in one respect. but above all, i would like to draw attention to another aspect which is of paramount importance, namely the area of security. i think that all these efforts that are being made must ultimately have a significant impact on safety, in addition to, of course, emissions. i therefore sincerely hope that this freight traffic will be brought on to the railways as soon as possible, and that the risks involved and the accidents associated with them will be reduced.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. i regret that the chamber is more empty than full today, as this is a very important subject. i think that these reports that we get in parliament are extremely, extremely important and that the role of the ombudsman in the world we live in today is all the more important given all the challenges, all the discrimination that is going on and all the risks. above all, they also represent, in a way, a mirror of the work of the european institutions. many european institutions, and in some cases countries, can see where the citizens of the european union see the biggest deficit and thus the gap between the expectations of europeans and, on the other hand, of course, the european institutions. i would like to draw your attention to a few things that i think are extremely important. one of the things is transparency and what's called a democratic deficit. it is simply because we cannot have and live in a democracy if we do not have the appropriate transparency, if we do not have the appropriate transparency, and here the role of the ombudsman is all the more important. i would therefore very much like to see greater transparency in the conduct of trialogue discussions, to see documents and positions of individual countries made publicly available when voting on particular hot-button issues in the council, which would also help citizens to understand the origin and history of certain decisions and thus also to reflect on how individual countries have actually reacted to important issues. i also call, of course, on the ombudsman to continue her inquiry into the functioning of european union agencies, with a focus on the food safety authority and the european chemicals agency, concerning monsanto and the possible sustainability and conflict of interest implications. but above all, i think it is also important in terms of lobbying, where registers must be known, also in terms of whistleblowers, also in terms of disabled people, and i think that these are many issues with which we also want to make the work of the european commission and the european institution clearer. but i would also like to draw attention to something else, namely the importance of the european citizens' initiative as an essential form of democracy available to citizens. i think that we should therefore consider how to make this initiative as operational as possible, so that the commission does not decide for itself which initiatives are to be recognised and which are not, and i think that there is still a lot of room for improvement in this area if we really want to make the european union and, of course, the european institutions more democratic and closer to the citizens.
as we all know, the european farmers were not to blame for the crimean war, the embargo. but what happened was, like in chess, they were the first casualties on the chessboard, and the consequences are still felt today. measures were taken, some were arrested. the situation in the dairy sector is already much better than it was then. the biggest problems are in those sectors, particularly in fruit growing, where these are perennial crops that you don't plant every year, but they grow for 20 years, and you can't just cut down a 10-year-old apple or a 10-year-old pear. but the market prices have been pretty much destroyed by this case. we are aware that this three-year period is a period which cannot be extinguished by immediate and fire-fighting measures alone, but must be continued by some structural measures. i therefore welcome what my colleagues have already said, namely that part of the solution lies in market restructuring, and we have been somewhat successful in that part. but i think we have a lot to do within the eu, especially as we have said today in the fair trade practices, because in crisis situations the farmers always get the short end of the stick, those who are second in the chain know how to cut their own bread, and the farmers get what is left at the end. the measure to promote consumption, i.e. the consumption of fruit and vegetables, is also very important, so measures such as milk and fruit in school meals are one of the appropriate measures. but we must also play a more active, more decisive role in foreign policy and try to get these sanctions to an end and lifted.
madam president, we are expressing our solidarity today with several colleagues. i would like to ask the house to show some solidarity with two former members of the european parliament who are in jail in spain. i think we should abandon our conspiracy of being silent as to what is going on there.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs helga stevens, for her distinguished work and indeed for all her efforts to promote the rights of disabled people. it is our duty to work together to promote the dignity of rights and the well-being of all sections of society, including the most vulnerable, and among them, of course, the disabled, since one in six people over the age of 15 in the european union has a disability. disabled people still point out that many international documents written on disabled people's rights are not guaranteed in practice, especially the social situation of disabled people, poverty, unemployment rate. it is therefore, of course, to be welcomed that this document also devotes a great deal of attention to employment. this is, of course, one of the main means of ensuring the full integration of disabled people into society. but of course there is a huge, huge room for improvement in practically every member state. they also point to the stagnation in the area of electronic accessibility, and here the report is clear that this gap must of course be closed. i would also like to point out the complete, or often sometimes complete, absence of integrated national disability policies. the main measures are ad hoc, and disability organisations are critical of this. this is also the case in slovenia. commitment at eu level is essential, but without good implementation it will be a dead letter on paper. it is therefore extremely important that the report gives special attention to the accessibility act, and that it should be implemented as soon as possible, and above all that we should not think of the disabled only on disability day or when adopting such resolutions, but that we should take care of each other every day of the year.
the european disability strategy carries an important message, as it sets out a strategy to empower people with disabilities so that they can fully enjoy their rights and participate in society and the economy on an equal basis with others. to best implement the strategy, the eu institutions and countries need to work together to raise awareness of the problems associated with disability. according to the association of the disabled workers of slovenia and the statistical office of the republic of slovenia, there are between 160,000 and 170,000 disabled persons in slovenia. the vast majority are unable to work because of ill health, and those who can find work are unable to find a job, more than a third of them, and so they depend on very little government assistance, and many of them live below the poverty line. 7500 slovenes receiving a disability pension of less than eur 300 per month. otherwise, the state allows these people to get a welfare allowance, but the total amount of the monthly allowance is about 450 euros, which is certainly below the poverty line. the whole of society must do more for the disabled, regardless of the provisions of the european strategy.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on the implementation of the european disability strategy by the european parliament. the report draws attention to the problems faced by people with disabilities in society, the labour market and their local environment. the findings of the report show that member states, as well as the eu institutions, are still not implementing all the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in a sufficient way. this united nations document sets internationally accepted standards that reflect the life and social needs of persons with disabilities. in this connection, it emphasises in particular that the rights of disabled persons cannot and must not be less than those of non-disabled persons. the report strongly calls on the member states and the european union to do more to integrate disabled people into society and the labour market. i also particularly welcome the call for disability organisations to be involved in the preparation of the european disability strategy beyond 2020. only the cooperation of these organisations can ensure that a document is adopted that reflects the real needs and expectations of people with disabilities in the european union and beyond. i therefore support the call to ensure adequate funding for disabled organisations and their programmes. only well-organised and financially supported organisations of disabled people can carry out their noble mission on behalf of their members.
congratulations to colleagues dessa and de castro on this omnibus. we have put agriculture ahead of the rest and we are starting to implement these changes next year. it's important to make progress in this area, to first define what an active farmer is, how to actually put this farm money in the hands of those who farm and also create rural settlement. the young farmer area is important so that we can help to manage this rural regeneration by giving young farmers a bigger bonus to subsidies and thus attracting them to stay in the countryside. insurance against both weather and market risks is very important, as is status in the negotiation process, to give farmers through the organisations more weight in the unequal negotiations that they have today in the trade chain. it is also important that the honey plants are given a place in the greening and that progress will be made in this area in the coming years.
aviation is the fastest growing sector in transport and already today accounts for 1.3% of all c02 emissions, so it is essential to prevent this black scenario from happening, whereby by 2050 these emissions increase by a further 3 to 7 times the forecasts for transport growth. europe cannot solve this problem alone, it is making its efforts within the ets, and it is also seeking to engage other actors in the paris agreement. i am pleased that the international civil aviation organization (icao) has also agreed and has drawn up the first blueprints for how to share this burden in the future, and i also hope and believe that the awareness that we all have a responsibility for the planet will lead to the adoption of a global standard for burden sharing after 2021 that does not harm the competitiveness of individual parts of the world in this area.
the idea of european citizenship has a rich history, but 25 years ago, under the maastricht treaty, it became a legal and political concept and was given a new lease of life. the report before us addresses some of the real challenges, from freedom of movement, the fight against discrimination of all kinds, to democratic participation at european level. the ultimate aim of european union citizenship policies is for all european union citizens to feel equally at home wherever they are in the union. but that goal is a long way off. i should also mention one asymmetry in the report, which is that it pays a tremendous amount of attention to lgbt rights within the group, but it doesn't mention, for example, a group that has been working for decades to right its wrongs. i am talking about slovenian deportees who are not heard enough in either domestic or european courts. nevertheless, we can be proud to say that one of the key rights of european citizenship is increasingly being asserted. the european programmes, in particular erasmus+, have also contributed to the growing mobility of young people. in conclusion, the european union must be based on two pillars: it is a community of citizens and it is a community of their countries. those who do not accept this fact do not think and act in a european way.
i welcome the conclusion of the enhanced cooperation and partnership agreement between the european union and kazakhstan. it is time to upgrade the 1999 agreement. i support the ambition to deepen and broaden cooperation with it and i agree with the comprehensive approach of the rapporteur. the decision to diversify the kazakh economy and reform the state is of strategic importance. both can only succeed if we remain committed to the same values and principles that started our partnership. restrictions on ngos and those who think differently are not in the spirit of the agreement.
the arms trade, terrorism, drugs, corruption, tax evasion, the wealth of the multinationals. this is what we're talking about today when we talk about money laundering and wealth, tax evasion, tax avoidance. something illegal, something unethical, and certainly all of this is eroding the fabric of both the european union and the world as a whole. as we have heard, the european union loses as much tax in one year as our budget for seven years. so it's a serious fiscal problem, which is why we don't have the kind of development that we would like, and most importantly, we don't have a quality of life for those people who also live off of paying taxes. we do not have a quality social security system, we do not have a good education system, we do not have a good health system, so it is essential that the measures are clear, decisive and that we do not want to look the other way, even if they are about the issue of an eu member state.
we can be satisfied with the work of the pana committee, for which we thank mr langen and the two rapporteurs in particular. however, we have done a lot of work together, and we have also pointed to many very concrete cases of tax evasion and money laundering, including money laundering in the largest slovenian state bank. of course, our jurisdiction is limited. we cannot act where states should act. that's their job, and we don't have the executive power. and the way that these cases of tax evasion, of money laundering, are handled by individual countries, also shows how serious the countries are about confronting and dealing with this problem. some do not take any action at all, and i naturally support the amendment proposed to this effect, namely that the competent authorities and the member states must take action as soon as they become aware of suspected irregularities.
i would like to stress that ... i would like to congratulate all the members of the panama committee on the work they have done, the report is excellent, there are many recommendations that can have a positive impact on the regulation of this problem, both at european level and in the member states. in particular, i would like to say this: in all the member states, the democratic public, which is fighting for the rule of law, is not strong enough to successfully confront the financial mafia that rules in some places. the last example of a major scandal that was mentioned in the room, nlb irangate, where over a billion dirty iranian money was laundered for suspiciously dangerous purposes, is one of them. that is why we need a strong european union and effective institutions that will not only point the finger at mistakes but also take action.
the efsi is probably one of the most successful projects of this mandate of the european commission. although, at the beginning of its operation, many doubted its success. some were even right, especially those who said that smaller countries would have a harder time using the fund. it is clear that larger and richer countries have an advantage. both in attracting private investors and in self-financing a certain part of the investments. but i would like to point out something here in my speech, namely that the same questions that i raised last year when the efsi was extended still appear as open and unresolved questions after one year, namely that nowhere has there been an estimate published of how many jobs this major european project has brought, and i remain with the same question for the commission this year. but since i still have time to speak, i'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. we are again short of funds for social services, which are very important and of great importance to this part of society today. let us not forget our population, which is increasingly composed of people with disabilities, our population is aging, and we urgently need a greater balance in favour of social investment.
i understand your position, madam high representative, that a deal with iran, a nuclear deal, is necessary. i also understand that you're assessing that it even works in some segments, but i don't understand why we can't have a slightly more holistic, holistic approach to iran when you're assessing its role in the region and also in iran itself. you know that this theocracy is practically systematic and systematic in its violation of human rights, we have heard of dozens of executions every month and so on, and you keep quiet. at the same time, the iranian regime is also acting as a destabilizer in the region, developing ballistic missiles, funding hezbollah and other terrorist organizations, laundering money for terrorism, supporting assad with blood on their hands, and so on. in short, iran is not a country that can be a factor of stability, democracy and peace, but on the contrary, something will have to change.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, i would kindly to ask you to name one member state of the european union which is opposing the existence of the state of israel.
president trump has announced an intention that goes far beyond the powers vested in him as president of his country and one of the world's leading political leaders. for now, his announcement of recognition of jerusalem as the capital of the state of israel has drawn criticism and outrage from the international community. not only that, but he has irresponsibly and without regard to the long history of attempts to solve this problem, strained relations between israel and its arab neighbors, challenged muslims, humiliated palestinians. if he sincerely believed that during his term of office he could contribute to the solution of the palestinian-israeli problem and to a lasting reconciliation of the peoples who must find a way to peaceful coexistence and mutual recognition, then the move he announced will certainly not contribute to achieving this goal. it is right, ladies and gentlemen, to support the position expressed by high representative mogherini, and subsequently by president macron and many other european leaders, to israeli prime minister netanyahu. it is time for europe to back up its commitment to peace in the middle east and to a just settlement of the conflict by recognising the state of palestine and by firmly opposing unilateral moves that preclude the only possible solution based on international law, the two-state solution of israel and palestine. we know that the alternative to a peaceful solution in this area is bloodshed, and that is already happening today. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162.8))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. my dear colleague, i am much less one-sided and emotional than you are when you defend your own case. i think it would be absurd to suggest that the capital of the united states of america be, for example, dallas in texas or anchorage in north america. in short, i think it has nothing to do with the competence of the president of one or any of the countries.
the european commission has recognised for years that some member states are in breach of european legislation which, except in exceptional cases, does not allow the use of phosphates in meat preparations. so today the use of phosphates in the preparation of kebabs and giros is prohibited and i want to keep it that way. after all, the kebab has survived most of its life without phosphates. the expert points out that there is evidence of a link between phosphate supplements and an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, that phosphate supplements worsen bone and kidney health and even increase mortality. we do not rush to extend the set of exceptions until efsa has published a final report on the impact of phosphates on food. we don't rush when it comes to people's health. let's be smart about this, and let's emphasize prevention in health. they say that if the objection is accepted tomorrow, it will have negative consequences for the business. i think prevention is much cheaper than treatment. your honor, none of us who support the objection to the commission's proposal want to ban the kebab. and anyone who has children knows how popular it is among teenagers. the only thing we really want is for young people and adults to be able to enjoy kebabs and other similar meat products in a healthy way, without unnecessary phosphate additives. here too, we need to pave the way for healthy alternatives.
today, on the threshold of a new year and new plans, it's time for positive energy and optimism. i therefore speak with full faith in our european union and with the hope that our citizens will also have confidence in it. they want more europe today, above all in terms of security - whether physical, economic or social. security is increasingly linked to policies in areas currently under the competence of the member states (social, health, etc.). on the other hand, there is the issue of migration management. both are the result of changing demographics and finding common european solutions will be crucial in the years ahead. we can only feel safe in an environment that respects democratic rules, is attentive to individuals and shows solidarity. and that is our greatest challenge - to keep our core values alive and to live by them. and if you, dear leaders, follow that lead, we will follow it, so that next year will be a good one.
three things, brexit, i'd like to thank mr bernier for the excellent management of the whole negotiation process, and above all for putting people and their rights and freedoms before the interests of the benefit structures of individual countries and so on. secondly, migration, the leaders will also touch on this burning issue. i would draw particular attention to the letter from the president of the european council, donald tusk, in which he says that mandatory quotas are not the best solution because they divide the european public and advocates more encouraging ways of tackling this problem. and thirdly, pesco, no european common policy has ever had such strong support as the creation of a defence and security union, so i am very pleased that the leaders will also be touching on this issue.
mr president, in my group we remain strongly committed to the full and immediate accession of romania and bulgaria in the schengen area. we demand it now! if we say we are a community of values and based on the rule of law, we should act like one. it is quite unacceptable that, despite the required conditions being fulfilled, the decision on accession has not yet been made. fragmenting, or creating a second-class schengen, with the solutions found in the entry/exit system for example, is putting the integrity of freedom of movement at risk. such political games by the council erode the trust of our citizens in the european project, which we are so desperately trying to protect from collapsing. i would also like to welcome croatia as soon as it meets the criteria. have we really forgotten that schengen is one of the greatest achievements of the european integration? we are tired of hypocrisy: promising restoration and full functioning of the schengen area by the end of 2016 failed miserably. on the contrary, the commission further proposed the extension of internal border controls beyond the current legal basis this year, while admitting that the conditions are not fulfilled. if you do not to reverse the course of action soon, i am seriously afraid that schengen as we know it will be a thing of the past, and there is no european union without schengen.
in writing. i am pleased that the idea of a european pillar of social rights, which the european commission presented at the beginning of its mandate, is becoming more concrete. it is true that inequalities in the labour market and in the social sphere between member states must be less than they are at present and that this should be the aim of the governments of the member states. but we must realise that we will not achieve this unless countries adopt key reforms. only on the basis of a sound economy, able to respond to shocks and adapt to them, can we build a just social system. a healthy economy will bring about a regulated market with fair working conditions, adequate and sustainable social protection, equal opportunities and access to the labour market. good action at member state level will make possible the strong social system that europe so badly needs.
i'll return to the subject of today's debate. there are countries where the exposure of nazi, fascist, anti-semitic, racist, xenophobic and other extreme symbols no longer surprises us. so what happened that we have to talk about these things in the european parliament? one of the leading politicians of the german federal democratic party, bjoern hoecke, called the holocaust memorial a monument of shame. the neo-nazi organization white rex in russia, under the guise of business, is breaking down the grid of neo-nazi ideology. in italy, days ago, a group of masked members of the fascist forza nuova declared war on the newspaper la repubblica and the weekly l'espresso, and us president trump retweeted messages from british neo-nazis and apologized to participants in the neo-nazi demonstrations in charlottesville. serbs and croats declared war criminals heroes in the hague. one of them, vojislav šešelj, sits in the serbian parliament while croatian extremists erect a monument to the fascist state formation in the jasenovac concentration camp. hungarian neo-nazis are an integral part of the political scene in their country, both ukrainian and polish. the phenomenon of the far right, more or less aggressive, was known years ago mainly in eastern europe, in the countries of post-communist transition, but today it has also grown in sweden, denmark, norway, finland, greece and spain and elsewhere. the iconography may be new or old, but the message is the same, and it's dangerous if we don't read it in time. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 162.8))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. we are close neighbours, mr. colleague, and i know well what kind of monument was erected in jasenovac and, fortunately, thanks to the cleverness of some responsible people, it was removed. therefore, we should not play small games here about it.
