madam president, i would like to thank you. i see that the council wants to allocate additional resources to defence, but it is not really about the amount of money, it is about what we get for that money. what we usually talk about, 2% of bmi, it doesn't say anything about the quality we have or the defense capability we have. that's the one we have to secure. there are many structural problems in the defense that we must solve first. although many people, not least in this parliament, would like to see a defence union or a common army, defence is still a national competence and not everyone is in nato. the council's recommendation to improve cooperation between member states is therefore more appropriate. more collaboration, pooling and sharing it would reduce costs instead of increasing them. we've been talking about it for years and years, and nothing happens. of 300 proposals, only 19 have been implemented. then there is the proposal for a defence fund, but no new money is added, but the money we hear about from time to time comes from other civilian work, and i cannot put this together.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it's amazing, actually, this house. there are many of you here who could have a career as future writers, and you hear that when you give speeches. i find it rather interesting sometimes to hear, as i did just now, mr tusk. he says that in the area of migration, progress has been made. what progress, i wonder. it's a complete disaster everything about migration. people are freezing to death in greece right now. the only progress you have made, if you choose to call it progress, is that you have concluded a blackmail agreement with turkey which lacks any form of human rights and which does not respect any form of democracy. that's what you've done. it's not much to brag about. when it comes to ukraine, you say there is a concern among dutch voters. it's not a worry. that was a definite no. they said no, but you have a very hard time in this house accepting a no. because you have a grudge against the will of the people. brexit is your biggest fear, and i think that's based on the fact that britain will do just fine without this house. the us will have a deal in place before the eu does. punishing britain will immediately punish you, because then you are punishing british workers and british citizens, and it will hit you back really hard. the only answer you have is more eu. more of failed policy. more of a contempt for democracy. more of a voter-hating thing. that's what's shaking this house to its foundation, and that's what's gonna be your case.
i'm sorry, but i never said that word. i said "author". it's someone who writes books and nothing else. so maybe you should review what i said before you go out with accusations that are not true at all.
i have listened to this debate with interest and let me make a few personal observations. when the commission came up with this proposal for a new financial transaction tax six years ago, i was a member of the government in the czech republic at the time, which analysed the issue very carefully, and on the basis of many recommendations from many experts, we came to the conclusion that this measure is extremely harmful. i am therefore against this proposal. i share the expert opinion that the introduction of this arrangement will result in financial transactions being moved to countries where there is no such tax burden, i.e. a reduction in transactions in the states that accept this cooperation. i do not want, as a member for a country, the czech republic, which does not want to be part of this enhanced cooperation, to criticise or contradict the will of the 10 countries which have decided to accept this enhanced cooperation. but i'm convinced that if the tax goes into effect, it will lead to a reduction in the number of transactions in those states and they will move to countries where there is no tax. i am simply asking you, if that happens, not to force us, the rest of the european union countries, who do not want such a tax, to adopt this tax product, because in my opinion it is wrong and will harm the european economy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. one reason for not introducing the transaction tax is that there is no support for it among member states. in the end, only 10 member states are still discussing the matter. the reasons are very simple: the transaction tax does not create new money. it only creates new costs and higher taxes in the part of the world that already has the highest taxes. it's borrowers who have to pay, savers who have to pay, pensioners who have to pay, and all the businesses that need investment. the whole idea of a financial transaction tax is the exact opposite of what we want to achieve with a capital markets union. to get more investment, more entrepreneurship and new jobs. this is not a way of magically extracting new money from a hat to pay for new expenses, but it means more difficult conditions for those who already depend on borrowing from the bank or need money to invest in companies. it goes directly against our need for more and new jobs. i think that this is a signal to the presidency and to the commission: listen to the debate. it's turned around. do you hear that, in this debate, in this chamber? today there are more who are against it, and the reason for this is that more and more member states have realised that this is a risk to prosperity and welfare. it is a risk to investment and a proposal that should be set aside.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the snow is falling and the temperature is falling. the harsh winter weather has now arrived, even in the southernmost part of the eu – in the southern member states – and more refugees are faced with unacceptable living conditions. thankfully, at the moment, ngos and international organisations have been providing emergency relief. i would like to reach out to give recognition and wholeheartedly felt thanks to them at this time. at the same time, the european governments and the union institutions have to improve the management of this situation. the conditions are unacceptable for eu citizens, and are equally unacceptable for people who have reached our shores to ask for refuge. we must – and can – do much better than this. i realise that the relocation from greece and italy has not worked. therefore, in the dublin regulation that i am responsible for and currently working on, i will try to present some ideas on how we can solve some of these issues, but these are long-term solutions. what we need to see now are emergency measures to assist all refugees on our continent – both those in member states and those who are stuck in the countries of the western balkans. i hope that member states and the commission will do all that they can to provide the necessary assistance, because today we need both emergency measures and passion and compassion for those in need. we need to reach out in this humanitarian crisis on european soil. generations to come will judge us on what we do, or what we avoid doing, today. that goes without saying. commissioner, i wish you well in all your efforts. let us try to work together to solve this.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. another year has passed and the situation around the mediterranean has improved only marginally. again, we're talking about temporary solutions to problems that are obviously going to arise. we in the sweden democrats will never stop talking about how it is better to help people on the ground, instead of luring migrants across the mediterranean with promises of eternal sustenance and housing. you should think about it as a precaution next time. maybe then we won't have to send billions to turkey just to guard its borders. now a large number of migrants have sought to enter greece and the situation there is very tense. this is also detrimental to the rest of the eu, as we have not been able to send dublin cases back there since 2011. we in sweden should not be forced to provide for asylum seekers just because they happened to pass through greece first, which is the situation now. in sweden, we also had to set up camp last winter. this is because we took an excessive responsibility and let in almost everyone who came to sweden. temporary housing is being built all over our country and hundreds of new schoolchildren are being placed in small towns in the countryside. perhaps it is time for a big debate in this house about the country that has received by far the most asylum seekers per capita: sweden. the focus on greece has been enormous in the eu over the last 7-8 years. a package of aid, the relocation of their asylum seekers and a new eu authority to protect the country's borders. the question is natural: when will the aid arrive in sweden and when will the dublin regulation be applied?
thank you, madam president. the situation this winter is inhuman. people are freezing to death. freezing to death in camps in 2017 in europe. not because they have to, but because we have created this situation with wrong, inhumane political decisions. what kind of europe is this? a black hole of indifference. europe's borders are closed. tens of thousands of refugees are stuck in greece in a kind of detention on the islands, and thousands more in the western balkans. when it comes to stopping people and sending personnel, vehicles and boats to patrol borders, eu countries are standing up for each other. but when it comes to providing decent reception conditions for refugees, well, then nothing happens. it's not holding. that has to change. these plans that i've heard now, it's not enough. we have a humanitarian disaster right now. i ask the commission to call the willing member states - and i say the willing member states, because we should not hide behind a few who do not want to do anything - to show that it is possible to make a difference. don't show us every time that it's not possible to make a difference. we want a quick meeting, we want emergency relocation, and we want the camps closed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i can agree with a great deal of what mr mann said. there is a broad consensus on this issue, namely the importance of supporting social development in particular through measures of the kind outlined by maria joão rodrigues in her laudable report. i would like to highlight in particular amendment no 4 on a social protocol. a social protocol would establish that fundamental human and trade union rights are not subordinate to economic freedoms in the internal market. it's the center. if the eu cannot secure the basic social rights of its citizens, such as equal treatment of workers and the principle of equal pay for equal work, there is a very real risk that people in more eu countries will turn their backs on the whole european project. we are already seeing it today. i therefore fully support and endorse the proposal put forward by mrs maria rodrigues.
in writing. – more than 122.3 million people live at risk of poverty and social exclusion in the eu, such as the roma, its largest minority, most of whom live in extreme poverty, face widespread and severe social exclusion, and often experience barriers in accessing major eu programmes. therefore, the main goal of the social pillar should be to lift these people out of this situation and break the cycle of poverty and social exclusion, thereby also reaching sdgs. this, however, is only possible if the planned social pillar is not limited to be developed in the eurozone. non-euro countries struggle with similar social and employment-related challenges, and thus leaving them out might result in an even greater social divergence. for a truly social europe, in which we leave no one behind, the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination and that of gender equality have to be mainstreamed throughout the planned social pillar. there should be special measures taken to reach out to socially—disadvantaged people by planned structural reforms and social investments, in order to enable and empower them, and there should be a clear and viable implementation roadmap with strong monitoring and evaluation with the involvement of civil society organisations.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. the central african republic has long had major problems. there's a lot to worry about. both in terms of security and in terms of poverty. at the same time, great progress has been made in recent times. on the one hand, the country has held elections, on the other hand, it has adopted a new constitution in a referendum, and as far as i know, it has been free and fair. the president also seems to be doing a good job at the moment. that is why we find it a little difficult to understand why we should treat the central african republic as an urgent matter at this time. there are many other urgent matters which we do not discuss here and which i would consider perhaps even more urgent. however, there is a lot of good in the resolution as well. i would particularly like to emphasize the call to international companies to stop feeding this conflict and human rights violations through their trade in illegal diamonds and other illegally extracted natural resources.
mr president, i would like to share the concern of many of us at the resumption of massive heavy shelling in eastern ukraine, where nine people have been killed, 26 wounded, thousands of civilians have been displaced, and hundreds of thousands of civilians are without basic supplies. i don’t know if it is a coincidence that this weekend, on saturday, president putin and president trump had a phone call, but the eu should react. i am happy that the high representative is here with us to call for a ceasefire, for humanitarian aid and to restore the political process.
mr president, today a new item will be added to the agenda: managing the migration in the mediterranean. with regard to this proposal, the efdd group would highlight that our member, beatrix von storch, already tabled a major interpellation on managing the migration in the mediterranean. this issue is already in the pipeline for parliamentary follow-up with the high representative. mr president, could you please confirm that the major interpellation tabled by the efdd group shall not be dismissed on the grounds that a debate on a similar issue is taking place today?
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is perhaps one of the most important things we are doing in this term of office as we work towards the future energy union. as several colleagues have said, it is important for us to be competitive, to be able to keep good prices for both private consumers and industry, to be able to ensure that we are a progressive party also when it comes to renewables, and not least energy security. so that in a world that is becoming increasingly anxious, we know that we can manage our energy supply to individuals and to industry. i myself will have the privilege of working on the renewables part, and i have noted today that the commission's report on renewable energy has been released, which shows that we are already well on the way to reaching the 20% renewable energy target set for 2020. it's very gratifying. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there are, of course, a number of things we can do. i'm a market-based liberal. it makes me believe in a common energy market where we have market-driven pricing. i can recommend the north pole area to my colleagues to take a closer look. for example, when our colleagues from estonia became full members of the nord pool energy market, costs for private individuals were reduced, safety was increased and costs for industry were reduced. this has also created increased demand, which will increase investment in the future. i do not think that we are doing this primarily through political means, but by creating a common market and having political objectives, we can do this without too much subsidy which actually harms the market in which we are.
mr president, we are in the midst of an energy revolution. renewables are growing like never before and costs are falling rapidly. now we have to seize the moment. i am, however, worried that the winter package proposed by the commission is a missed opportunity if we want to unleash the full potential of the green transition. if we do not act now, we will not only fail in meeting our climate obligations, we will also miss out in reaping the rewards of being leaders of green innovation. we need to create a climate that attracts scientists from all over the world who want to come here and create breakthrough technologies, and we need to support the shift to new products and clean tech start-ups. therefore, i call on my colleagues to stop protecting the old and start embracing the new. only then will europe be the true global leader in the green transition.
mr president, i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission for his presentation. you mentioned, mr šefčovič, that for you, 2017 means implementation and it means real business, and you can certainly prove that very easily because, as you know, there is one project that is in conflict with the whole idea of the european energy union and in conflict with its aims, and that is nord stream 2. it is increasing dependence on russia and increasing dependence on gas. it is distorting competition and it is changing the architecture of the european energy markets. it will be a means for gazprom to assume an even more dominant market position and it is also in conflict with the rules in the third energy market package about unbundling. so, if you want to make the project of energy union credible and stable, you need to act. you need to stand up for the legislation that we have and the aims we have, and take a clear view and clear action. it is very easy to prove that you mean business with energy union. please do that.
mr president, before we start the debate on this item i would make the following points: this item was added to the agenda after beatrix von storch tabled a major interpellation on managing migration in the mediterranean, on behalf of ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i do not have the rule, but this was something we tabled.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to say thank you, madam commissioner, for your engagement, your commitment and your good intentions. it goes without saying that the european union should always contribute to stability, growth and the protection of human rights and democracy in our neighbouring countries, but we must never, ever, outsource our own responsibilities and obligations in respect of migration policies and people in need, or externalise our borders. in times where, on a daily basis, we witness what the ugly face of populism in power really means, all decent and progressive forces on this continent need to unite. we need to put our differences aside and take the bold steps required to preserve the values that created the foundations of this very union on the ruins of the second world war. openness, respect, a rejection of nationalism and egoism and, instead, the promotion of human decency, these are what we must now engage in. europe flourishes when we work together, and when we act on the basis of visions and hope, rather than our fears and prejudices. i hope that is the spirit in which you will work in valletta this weekend and i wish you much success. i hope we bring back the message that what we need now are shared values and shared responsibilities for the people in need. please, madam commissioner, bring that message back.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the cutting of women’s genitals and clitorises is a very serious form of violence against women. as colleagues have said, approximately 130 to 140 million women and girls have been victims of fgm. fgm is older than christianity or islam. it has nothing to do with religion, but it has all to do with patriarchy. it is also symptomatic for me that the clitoris almost everywhere has been systematically neglected and erased. many people don’t even know what it looks like, and the dictionaries in 2017 still get it wrong. this is what it looks like, a real-sized clitoris. this is a simple 3d print that i think every woman should be proud to be in possession of, because knowing your body is also a way to take back control, to take back power. this is being used by many fgm activists that fight against fgm, and it gives us the power to protect it. saying a firm ‘no’ to fgm for me also means that we have to have protective laws and we have to provide strong support to the grassroots organisations that work on this. but saying no to fgm also demands that we say no to all forms of patriarchal control of our bodies. today we see the attacks on women’s bodies from the likes of trump with his awful gag rule that wants to threaten women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights worldwide. colleagues, commission, our message must be clear. these struggles are linked. we say no to fgm, support grassroots organisations. we say no to all forms of patriarchal control over our bodies, and we say yes to sexual freedom and choice for women and for proper sexuality education where we can learn about our rights, our women’s rights and our bodies, and about the clitoris.
mr president, madam commissioner, female genital mutilation is a crime and it should be treated as such. these barbaric practices, as my colleagues have said, still affect millions of girls around the world and in europe, and more are at risk. we are talking about serious breaches of the rights of girls, some of whom are aged as young as two years old, causing physical and psychological damage. commissioner, i welcome your commitment and action. it is time for the member states to do more to enforce the existing legislation, to ratify and enforce the council of europe’s istanbul convention on violence against women, and to accelerate eu accession to the istanbul convention. the convention specifically criminalises female genital mutilation and provides specific measures for prevention and protection of victims, such as the training of judges and healthcare for victims. to eradicate fgm we need to eradicate impunity and ensure that the perpetrators, and even the guilty parents, are prosecuted. let us say it loud and clear: child abuse and gender-based violence can never be justified by any religion, any tradition or any culture. the eu must do more in its external and humanitarian action. we have to support awareness-raising, education on child rights and the medical risks, and support the adoption of national laws banning this practice. we also have to work with activists in civil society at grassroots level to empower women and girls to speak up in their communities. it is about recovering their dignity and it is about respecting the integrity of girls’ bodies. i will finish by saying this: let us continue to join forces in tirelessly repeating that we have to stand up for zero tolerance for female genital mutilation, for as long as it takes.
rapporteur. – mr president, first i would like to thank everyone for the work they have done on this important report and the good cooperation and interesting discussions we have had on this topic, the sustainable management of the eu external fishing fleet. we are about to raise standards in the management of the eu external fishing fleet. for many years the eu had a very bad reputation when fishing outside eu waters, but for the last ten years things have considerably improved with the control regulation, the iuu regulation and the reformed cfp in place. the report that we are going to vote on tomorrow is a regulation that is part of the eu control system on fisheries. it is actually the most fundamental one because it decides who shall have the right to fish outside eu waters. we can be proud of ourselves for we have voted for a very ambitious parliament position in the committee vote. on several points we have strengthened the commission proposal, which i have to say was a very good proposal to start with. for instance, we have added that eu vessels can only get direct authorisations if there is a surplus of fish available that the coastal state cannot catch. we have added that fishing on the high seas must be based on a scientific evaluation, showing the sustainability of that fishing activity. we introduced the requirement that vessels returning to the eu fleet register must provide their complete flag history during their period off the register. but, above all, we agreed that the new public register on authorisations must also include the name of the owner of the company, as well as the beneficial owner. this would then mean that, for the first time, we will see who benefits from global fishing through a public register. tomorrow we will vote in plenary, and some things are still to be settled. it is an important principle that only eu vessels with a clean record of compliance should be able to fish outside eu waters. this is already a provision in the current regulation that we need to keep. otherwise we undermine our own credibility in our work to curb the iuu fishing of other fishing nations. so it is crucial to reinstate article 5.1(d) that fell in a tight vote in the committee. i therefore urge you, colleagues, to vote against amendment 30 and to support amendment 78. another fundamental principle is the exclusivity clause in the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements. this is stipulated in article 31 of the basic regulation. i agree that there could be situations when the commission should try to reactivate so—called dormant agreements. this idea was adopted in amendment 18 in the committee vote. but under no circumstances should fishing vessels be allowed to engage in direct authorisations, just like that, if there has not been any protocol in force for three years. this is exactly what amendment 48 suggests. it suggests that fishing could start again without any prior assessment of the situation, yet there can be many reasons why there is no protocol in force – for example that the fish stocks situation does not allow for more fishing or the coastal state wants to keep the resource to itself for political reasons. that is why the commission first needs to assess the situation and check coherence with other eu policies, such as developing and foreign policies. the commission needs to ensure a level playing field. so please join me and delete amendment 48, which is in fact not in line with the basic regulation.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone here and commissioner vella for their contributions. i have some last points, and the first is that i really want to support the idea that we keep in the report the second part of amendment 32, which gives the commission the possibility to act if a member state fails to. i think this is crucial as a provision to guarantee the level playing field among fleets. i hope that this will be confirmed in tomorrow’s vote. i urge you to vote in favour of amendment 32 – all parts. the second point is that some colleagues claim that prohibiting vessels that have committed a serious infringement from fishing abroad would be a double penalty, and this is definitely not the case, as commissioner vella also stressed. it is an eligibility criterion designed to ensure that only vessels with a clean record are allowed to fish outside eu waters. my last point: let me come back to amendment 48. if vessels are allowed after three years of a dormant agreement to set up their own terms with a third country, they will be able to ignore those very provisions in the cfp that have served to improve eu standards. they could negotiate weaker terms despite the existence of a bilateral agreement, and that is not maintaining the high standards of the eu. it is serving to undermine them. so i urge you all to keep up the good standards of eu external fishing and to refer to, and vote against, amendment 48. once more, my thanks to all of you for the very good cooperation that we have had, and i am looking forward to working with you once more.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too welcome the proposal. this could have gone much faster. we could have granted visa waivers much earlier. i also cannot quite understand what mr díaz de mera said earlier: that we should wait, that we should link this to the so-called suspension mechanism. they're not directly related. they have connections in a way, but they're not something that you absolutely have to take together. the fact is that georgia has long since fulfilled all the criteria for obtaining these visa waivers. what i also very much welcome is that it is now necessary to allow georgian citizens to come to us too, and not just us to come to them without a visa, as is the case today. so i would also like to congratulate the georgian citizens here today, because i think it is time that we actually take this step now. as regards visa facilitation in general, our position is that it is very important that free movement not only includes us in europe, but that we extend it to other countries as well. the easier it is for people to move across borders, the better, we also think. in fact, there should be no borders in the world, but it is a utopia, so we cannot expect it to go that way. but i really want to welcome this proposal today, and hope that it can come into force as soon as possible and not really linked at all to this repeal mechanism. thank you, thank you!
mr president, too many children in europe are deprived of a family due to bureaucracy, and too often children live in a judicial limbo in which their rights are not recognised throughout the eu. and that is why i fully support your report, tadeusz, calling for mutual recognition and common standards for adoption. we have to address fragmentation and hurdles in the eu and increase judicial cooperation between the member states, including through the european e-justice portal. we need common minimum standards to enable member states to exchange good practices without prejudice to national laws on adoption. that is important. adoption procedures will remain a national competence as much as family laws, but too many families cannot fully enjoy the freedom of movement of the european union, and i support the proposal for a regulation on automatic mutual recognition of cross-border adoption orders, to ensure that the rights of adopted children are recognised and respected across the eu. as a co-chair of the intergroup on children’s rights in this parliament, i am committed to make sure that the best interests of the child are recognised in all the adoption procedures.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, i can reassure the house that the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, mr duncan, has been so focused on this report that when i texted him at about seven o’clock this morning and said ‘congratulations’, he replied ‘the report is not through the house yet.’ then i said ‘isn’t it your birthday?’ he had forgotten about that and was all focused on the emissions trading system (ets). as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy in respect of its opinion and shared competences on a few of the sections relating to the eu ets, i must say that i am pleased by the team’s devotion to delivering a broad majority in committee, where the report was supported by more than 80% percent of the members, as one of the main tasks for us was to make sure we did not trigger the cross-sectoral correction factor and that we did deliver a strong voice for the forthcoming negotiations in the environment committee. we can see that we have done that. the vast majority of the proposals we had in the industry committee’s opinion were actually accepted and on board in the environment committee proposal, and we are grateful for that and also for the cooperation we had with the environment committee team. it is good that we made sure to keep the carrot in front of the industry. they were pushing for more innovation but, at the same time, it is a fragile proposal, as ian duncan was saying. if we start taking bits and pieces out of this, it will not add up in the end. we will not create stable conditions for industry, and we will not meet the climate targets. in my last few seconds i would like to call upon my colleagues to make sure that we deliver a broad majority for a strong proposal and do not take it apart during the vote on wednesday.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you to the rapporteur, mr duncan, for both your kindness in running the work and for all the humour you have shown, and a very happy birthday to you. i hope that the other groups will also heed your important calls ahead of the vote to hold this compromise together. on wednesday, europe will be a colour. we have a historic opportunity to show that we are serious about our work on climate change and global warming. we have the chance now to show that europe is serious, that we want to take the lead in a sustainable climate-smart society, built with new fossil-free and world-class smart technologies, that we understand that good climate action and economic growth are not opposites, but rather interrelated and interdependent. the ets is the eu's single most important climate policy tool for reducing carbon emissions. ets is absolutely central to our success. this means that the ets now plays a key role, not just for europe but for the world, in how we meet the ambitions of the paris agreement to limit temperature rise to well below two degrees. ets is not a perfect system. none of us are saying that. over the years, we've seen a number of flaws and deficiencies in this system that need to be addressed, but that's what we're going to do now, for a strong system that delivers. for us social democrats, there have been three guiding principles: 1) to make sure that the ets is really aligned with the paris agreement and delivers for the climate, 2) that it is more fair and precise for industry, so we get rid of the imbalances we have seen in the historical ets, and 3) that we also make sure that workers get the chance to be part of the transition to a climate-smart society, so that it is fair. for us social democrats, the ets is the single most important part of delivering after paris. to do this, we need to crack the emissions bubble, and then allowances must be reduced by at least 2.4% each year. 2) at the same time, it is important for us to give industry the right tools to switch to climate-smart production without losing competitiveness, but on the contrary strengthened. that is why we are giving more money to innovation so that companies can invest in greener solutions.3) it is also important that climate change is solidarity-based and does not increase class gaps. we cannot allow those who already have the least to be the ones left behind as society modernizes and becomes more climate-smart. that is why we social democrats are calling for a special social conversion fund to provide support for workers in all sectors and regions concerned to be able to participate in this important social change. the vote on wednesday is a baptism of fire for the eu's climate action. it is now up to the eu to show that it is willing to act not just with fine words but also with concrete actions to ensure that the paris goals are met. for us social democrats this is a matter of course and before the vote on wednesday there is an agreement signed by all the political groups. it is a compromise where everyone can give and take, but as a negotiator for the social democratic group i know how delicate such a compromise is. we take responsibility now and stand by the compromise and think it's important on wednesday. we're standing up for the climate and making sure that ets becomes the climate legislation that it should be and this is so important, so now i've got my last word... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – madam president, i am proud to be here today to give our priorities to the council for the upcoming session of the united nations commission on the status of women. we cannot miss this opportunity to join forces and stand up together for women’s dignity worldwide, to combat stereotypes and any form of discrimination, going beyond rhetoric with concrete actions. much more needs to be done everywhere to empower women and girls and achieve gender equality. we want to give a voice, especially to the millions of women that are excluded, marginalised, vulnerable women, women with disabilities, migrant and refugee women. first of all we have to prevent and combat violence against women with a zero-tolerance policy to domestic violence, honour killings, trafficking, sexual abuse and exploitation, female genital mutilation, forced marriage. let us face it, many women and girls are the new slaves of our times. behind every victim there is a heartbreaking story of a broken life. we therefore call on the member states to ratify and enforce the council of europe’s istanbul convention on violence against women. second: education. we need to ensure access to school for all girls and keep them safe and empower them, then promote women in the labour market, in particular women’s entrepreneurship; recognise that women are an asset for our economy and growth; eliminate the gender-pay gap and ensure equal pay for equal work and more representation of women in decision-making everywhere. we need to work towards shared responsibility, a life and work balance between men and women in the care of children, and ensure that women and girls have universal access to health care, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. the un commission in march is an important opportunity for europe to show the world that we are responsible and credible in women and girls’ rights. we are at the crossroads. as the us seems to be retreating from global responsibility, europe should step in. as the us seems to withdraw support for multilateralism, europe should renew its support for the united nations and international cooperation. as the us seems to be turning its back on women and girls’ health, europe should show leadership in gender equality and women’s health. we firmly condemn the recently reinstated global gag rule in its most extreme form yet, expanded to withdraw funding not only from reproductive health services but from an organisation’s entire health budget if they provide information about interruption of pregnancy. this will encompass all the united states’ global health funding from africa through asia to latin america. there is an outcry, a chorus of concern turning to europe for help, notably from the united nations, other aid agencies, children’s rights ngos, research institutes, foundations, charities. we europeans are not going to abandon the thousands of women and girls depending on those donations. i welcome the initiative of the dutch government to mobilise funds in order to compensate for the us funding and the belgian initiative to hold a donors’ conference on 2 march. more countries and organisations should join the initiative to save the life of hundreds of thousands of women and girls in developing countries. the gag rule’s consequences are serious. they will affect many programmes: zika virus, lifesaving services, pre-natal and post-natal assistance to babies and young mothers, women that are raped. it will increase mortality. more women and girls are going to die in birth and complications. i call on the un and the member states to give a clear, united response against this setback, sexism and trumpism, and let us also support the women’s march and movement in the us.
madam president, bosnia and herzegovina is suffering from a nationalism that has been escalating lately. but that country is not getting any adequate help to fight this nationalism. just look at how in these separatist and nationalist times some parliamentarians here talk about the federalization of the country. so in a country with 14 parliaments, three presidents, 130 ministers, further fragmentation is proposed. like "this is the solution". the country doesn't work with 14 parliaments, so let's try 30 and see if it works. i'm sorry, but that's a load of crap. the problem in bosnia is that nationalist politics have been operating with impunity for the last 20 years. although there are means and possibilities to stop it. and after 20 years, of course some people start thinking, "why don't we have the same policy, it's obviously worth it". if europe really wants to reduce nationalism, it should promote the creation of a functioning state. forget about federation, divisions, entities, all that nonsense. we help the country become a functioning and law-abiding state, then all this will take care of itself.
madam president, this conflict has lasted three years and is now escalating. twenty-one people have been killed and 115 wounded in only the last two weeks. thousands are in need of aid, and access for humanitarian convoys and osce observers is still hampered by russian-backed rebels. this escalation started just after president trump’s and putin’s phone call. as russia is testing the us reaction, the eu should show leadership and firmly condemn russia’s attacks. ukraine is a hostage to the relationship between the west and russia, with the eu divided and the us unpredictable. with the new us administration, we are at the crossroads. it is our moment of truth. europe should not let down the people of ukraine. we must stand strong and united with ukraine, intensify political and economic support for the association agreements pending their adoption by the netherlands, for free trade and the reform process, for granting visa-free travel and for denouncing fake news, and we must stand firm behind an extension of the sanctions until the minsk agreement has been fully implemented and crimea has been returned to ukraine.
madam president, just like the attorney general of israel, i believe there are reasons for criticising the so—called regulation bill. it is very likely that it will be deemed unconstitutional by the israeli supreme court. that being said, it is imperative to realise that the settlement policy and the occupation are symptoms, not reasons, when it comes to the israeli—palestinian conflict. looking back in history, neither israeli concessions nor the return of land have led to dialogue and peace. the eu should be a guardian of international law. the eu should also defend israel’s right to exist. therefore, we must work for a negotiated two—state solution and islamists must abandon their aim of having israel wiped off the map. that, not israeli settlements, is the main obstacle to peace.
madam president, i would like to thank you. what we are seeing in the west bank is a frightening escalation, with israeli plans for over 6,000 settlements on occupied land and a knesset resolution illegally confiscating privately owned palestinian land. it's very hard to see this as anything other than a consequence of the us presidential election, a trump effect or a trump/netanyahu effect, and it's dangerous. the eu, the un and the so-called quartet have repeatedly called on israel to end its settlement policy and to work towards a meaningful peace process. now, instead, things are going in the opposite direction. it is more important than ever that the eu now acts for peace and does not give up the goal of a two-state solution. i would also remind mrs mogherini of our call to proceed with the demands for compensation for the destruction of eu-funded aid projects in, for example, gaza. we cannot send a double message and allow this destruction to continue without action. moreover, to reopen an association council with israel, for example, at the present time, instead of what is being discussed, would really send double signals. this calls for clarity, this calls for determination and this calls for perseverance.
madam president, the federation of bosnia and herzegovina is being proposed by some politicians as a solution to the problems in the balkans and in bosnia. so in a country with 14 parliaments, three presidents, 130 ministers, further fragmentation is proposed. the country doesn't work with 14 parliaments, so let's try 30 and see if it works. it didn't work with two parts, so let's split it into three, maybe it'll be better. well, that's great. federalisation is one deminutive for further ethnic division of bosnia and herzegovina. the problem in bosnia is that nationalist politics have been operating with impunity for the last 20 years. and after 20 years, of course, others start thinking, "why don't we have a policy like that, it seems to be paying off?" if europe wants to help bosnia join the eu, it needs to promote the creation of a functioning state. federalisation, division, entities, all of that needs to be forgotten. we help bosnia become a functioning and law-abiding state, everything else will take care of itself.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the annual growth survey, and my thanks go too to the shadow rapporteurs as we have had very fruitful and open-minded discussions and have achieved a good compromise. we are saying that, in order to secure economic growth, one can have a positive fiscal stance but it must be limited by the rules of the stability pact: positive in order to stimulate, stable in order to secure the preconditions for growth. i would like to thank the commission for its presentation of the growth situation in europe, and, in the main, we can share its view. growth is slow and it is fragile, largely because of the unique monetary policy, and this means that we need to make it more robust and to ensure that low growth can be transformed into high growth. that requires, of course, demand, but it also requires investment, it requires structural reforms and it requires stability. there are a number of key issues on which we need to move forward in order to be successful. first of all, we need to recognise that the growth is uneven, it is different in the different member states, which is why, at the same time, it is interesting and important to look at the aggregated development of the economy. we need, too, to recognise the different situations in different member states and that requires flexibility in the policy mix as well as different reforms and different reform strategies. however, it is important to note, first of all, that we have a tax load very much greater than that of any other competitive economy. we need to reform public services, to reform the labour market, to reform the rules for entrepreneurship – and we can see, in the differences between different member states, that more can be done. we need to do more about qualitative budgeting because, at the same time as we have higher taxes than most other competing economies, we are not achieving the spending that we need from our public incomes. the simple fact is that member states need to start with the most important spending before dealing with things that are less important. we need to ensure that there are fewer hindrances to investment. we need to secure a responsible fiscal policy, creating certainty and stability. by that i mean qualitative budgeting, allowing for investments but also allowing for and securing the stability of our economies. and we need to ensure that we follow the rules. following the rules entails two different dimensions: first of all, it opens the way for the positive fiscal stance the commission is talking about, and it also ensures that the rules of the stability pact must be respected, because if they are not respected we will undermine the stability and the credibility of the european economy. we have every opportunity to move ahead, and we need to do that on a platform involving all these different policies.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank everyone very much for this interesting and fruitful exchange of views on the european semester. this will certainly feed into our further work in this regard. as i mentioned in the introductory remarks, following the impetus given by the autumn economic governance package, the european semester is now entering the country-specific phase where we will also be closely engaging with national stakeholders, with governments, parliaments, social partners and other stakeholders. on discussions on the macroeconomic imbalances procedure: for the first time this year our country reports will also contain a deeper assessment of the implementation of company-specific recommendations in different member states. this will, of course, also imply country-specific recommendations relating to the surplus countries, something which has been raised by several members. indeed that is the reason why germany, along with some other countries, is already now seen as having economic imbalances, because a current account surplus is about the reference value and this is also part of macroeconomic imbalances. but that is not the only part of the macroeconomic imbalances, of course. we see that there are also a number of important imbalances in other countries that need to be addressed with equal urgency and equal determination.
president-in-office of the council. thank you, mr president, and also to vice-president dombrovkis and all the members who took part, as well as to the rapporteurs and the various committees that were represented. i think you have addressed a number of important points, and your remarks will certainly also carry weight in the discussions we will have within the council and the various areas you have referred to during this discussion: the importance of areas such as education, competitiveness, the environment and even social policy. the country reports that the commission will publish next week also represent an important step on this european semester process, and so we will be analysing the progress made and the challenges ahead in each of the different member states. so when we are working on this european semester and debating specific country recommendations, i think the most important thing is to keep in mind that this process should reach as many citizens as possible, and in this way we are also increasing the ownership of each nation. and so i would like to commend the initiative taken in this regard, including the dialogue that will take place in all capitals and the consultation with the social partners. and i think that today's debate, even if there are differences in how we think about this process, we have much more to unite and build on, to continue to cooperate together and to continue to work towards the challenges that the future will bring and then also to find the solutions among ourselves, share the knowledge that we have to address these challenges for the benefit of all european citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission and the council. i think there are some main conclusions from these debates. first of all, we must not be complacent about what has been achieved. it is a slow growth, and it is fragile due to the unique monetary policy we have. unemployment is still far too high. investments are still far too small, and growth is far too slow. we need to do more. the aggregated level is important to see, but it is important to see also the different developments in different countries, because there we can see that different policies have been giving different results. we have countries with quite better growth, and we have those who are lagging behind. we have those who have dealt with the deficits, and we have those who are still suffering from the deficits. so learning is important, and that is why the country-specific recommendations are important to discuss and to follow up on. and i think some of the most important issues are the need to go ahead with structural reforms, to consolidate, but also when you have a positive fiscal stance to do it in the framework of the stability pact and the limits we have there. may we also remember that the main social issue we have to address is the emergence of new jobs, stability and a qualitative budgeting that is ensuring that we are giving priority to the most important task we have in the public spending and in our welfare nations: the security for people to know that you can get a job. that requires reforms, stability and certainty, and that is the framework for the country-specific recommendations that we need to have.
madam president, i would like to thank you. after seven years, we're finally here, but i feel like crap. i am glad that we are going to approve the agreement, but i am sorry that it is so entrenched, that so many extremists here and elsewhere have spent so much time and energy trying to stop a cooperation and trade agreement with canada; that with lies or 'alternative facts', as they might be called these days, they have tried to hijack this agreement in order to pursue their own agenda on the right and left of nationalism and socialism. because this is where you see that they are the children of the same spirit. it is when it comes to defending protectionism and setting limits that the extreme right and the extreme left meet. but this is a good deal. it's a very good deal. it removes 99 per cent of all tariffs, it creates jobs in the over 900 000 companies that depend on trade with canada, and it indirectly creates jobs throughout europe. but it's not just canada. it's about our credibility on the international stage. if we can't even make a deal with canada, then we're losing our ability to affect world trade. europe cannot afford it, the world cannot afford it and that is why we are voting yes today.
mr president, the eu is currently struggling with multiple crises, one of them being the new trends of protectionism that we see around the world, particularly from the trump administration. today has been different. today, the european parliament has been able to send a united strong signal to the world, a signal that we want to uphold the post-war consensus of openness and free trade. i am therefore very proud to have supported ceta today. it is an act of resistance against mr trump’s new administration. it is an ambitious, modern, progressive deal that will, when it enters into force, abolish over 98% of the tariffs still in place today. it will open bidders for a public procurement on eu businesses, and it will also protect our environmental and social standards. today, we have taken a good step. we should continue in that way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina in the past year and hope that it will continue on its path towards future eu membership. i also believe that the commission's approval of the application sends the right signal. i would therefore also like to point out again that in a country with 14 parliaments, 3 presidents and 130 ministers, all the talk about further federalisation is nonsense which the eu should not be supporting. the real problem in bosnia is that nationalist politicians have been able to continue for 20 years with impunity. they have been allowed to continue, even though there are both means and ways to stop it. so now, 20 years later, more and more people are starting to think but maybe we should also pursue that policy, it pays off. if the eu is to help bosnia with its accession to the union, we should reduce support for nationalist and separatist forces and instead promote the creation of a functioning rule of law, invest in helping the country become a functioning rule of law. then many of today's problems will disappear.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the terrorist attacks have become so numerous that we hardly reflect on them anymore and the media has bought the image that each act is completely independent and has nothing to do with the other. they think that these are the actions of lone lunatics. the proposal we are debating today is good in that it puts pressure on countries to tackle the problems of jihadist paths and sections of society that are becoming more radicalized. this is good at a time when we are going to see more attacks on european soil, especially now that the islamic state is losing ground in syria and iraq. another proposal that purports to fight terrorism but in fact only affects law-abiding citizens is the proposed amendments to the eu's arms directive. the eu is desperately attacking honest hunters, marksmen and gun collectors. the entire civil defense is shaken as the ability to own and transport certain weapons becomes indirectly illegal. the proposal is so idiotically written that even the leading experts in the field cannot explain how the european commission has thought about this case. the commission is introducing new terms and showing that they don't even have a basic understanding of how these weapons work and what a magazine is and so on. the commission is clearly demonstrating here that it intends to combat legal weapons, which are almost never used in mass shootings, rather than tackling a problem of smuggling illegal weapons, especially from slovakia, which has been the source of several of these. should law-abiding swedish citizens suffer just because the eu wants open borders at all costs? what exactly did mr ygeman say in the council when this proposal was discussed? there are many questions and i'm beginning to seek answers. i will be visiting the hunters and gun collectors concerned from next week onwards to find out how things are going.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, by 2025 more than 20% of european citizens will be over 60. while increased life expectancy represents a significant resource to eu societies, it will also demand fundamental reforms of the health care sector as well as [engendering a] need to tackle a higher prevalence of injuries and diseases. cyber physical systems (cps), so-called healthcare robots, will incontestably be part of this solution. robots and smart devices will be more and more incorporated into diagnosis, treatment and care at hospitals and healthcare centres. the development of new technological devices will lead to healthier societies and quicker recovery times, and will decrease the number of medical errors. furthermore, cps is a growing market in healthcare, and will create numerous jobs and businesses in the medical field. i therefore take a positive view of the major positive outcomes for the healthcare sector throughout the eu. i therefore also support the report even if i found it sometimes fearful. in particular it mentioned the future discussion that will need to be had on the costs of medical secrecy, legal liability and patients’ privacy.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. air traffic is increasing rapidly today. while it is positive to have increased mobility, we must also recognise that emissions from aviation are escalating climate change. we need a policy that increases mobility but reduces emissions. for us green people, it is of the utmost importance that aviation - like all other modes of transport - pays its climate costs and reduces its environmental impact. neither current emissions trading, technological development, nor other initiatives, such as green flights, are sufficient to achieve this. we want to create a level playing field that improves the competitiveness of environmentally friendly alternatives such as the development of high-speed lines, comfortable night trains or even support for the development of more sustainable aviation fuels. it is unreasonable that the airline should not bear its own costs, that they should not pay taxes and vat and that so many airports are subsidised with tax money. finally, yesterday we voted on the reform of the eu emissions trading system. it was also intended to put a clear price on the climate impact of aviation. unfortunately, yesterday's vote was another toothless reform that will not bring us any closer to fulfilling the paris agreement. therefore, individual member states must be able to take the lead in showing green leadership and putting a fair price on the climate impact of aviation. we therefore vote green against this aviation strategy, which unilaterally prioritises short-term growth and competitiveness and refuses to take responsibility for the climate.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. isidro baldenegro lópez was a farmer, environmental activist and leader of the indigenous people of tarahumara. a month ago, he was murdered in northern mexico. a year ago, berta cáceres, another indigenous leader and environmental activist in honduras, was murdered. these are the cases i read about in the economist this week. latin america, says the economist, is the deadliest place in the world for those fighting to save nature and the environment. in nicaragua, we are now dealing with the case of francisca ramírez, another courageous indigenous woman who defies threats and harassment from the authorities to stop a massive canal project that threatens indigenous agriculture. these environmentalists are putting their lives on the line to save the planet. they need our support. this resolution also supports the negotiating process between nicaragua and the organization of american states and a declaration of intent to be signed by both parties before the end of february. it is an important step towards greater legal certainty. trying to save the planet should not be accompanied by threats, harassment, and the risk of death.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. of course, the socialist group also condemns these death sentences. the eu has clear guidelines. we advocate the abolition of the death penalty in line with international law and the eu charter of fundamental rights. article 2 of the charter states: 'everyone has the right to life. no one shall be sentenced to death or executed. it is therefore of great concern that both kuwait and bahrain have now resumed the execution of their nationals after a long period of absence. this is unacceptable. the right to life is fundamental. even the international criminal court, which deals with crimes against humanity and genocide, cannot impose this punishment on the perpetrators. the case we are now hearing from kuwait and bahrain does not meet the minimum standards of due process. people are sentenced to death after summary trials and after confessions under torture. the right to life is the most fundamental thing for a state to protect. here we see the importance of parliament taking an even clearer position and leading an even clearer proactive work to achieve the objective of universal abolition of the death penalty.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the situation in guatemala is very serious: over thirty murders and attempted murders of human rights activists and journalists in the last 12 months. it speaks its own language. defending human rights in guatemala is a life-threatening business. fighting to uphold the basic democratic principles of free speech is done with a life's work. this particularly affects the human rights defenders who are already vulnerable: women and indigenous peoples. these cases of murder and attempted murder must be given a fair trial. parliament and the member states must and will closely monitor developments in the country. we want to support the steps taken in the right direction and condemn all forms of lawlessness, impunity or corruption. in november, the situation will be assessed in the un universal periodic review of guatemala. we can't wait until then. the security situation must be corrected immediately. people should not risk their lives to uphold basic universal principles of human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have listened to mr juncker's speech again and again i have been struck by the tiresome and repetitive nature of the same old wrong solutions. it is as if we are unable to turn our ears to the ground and listen to what the people of europe are saying. half of the european population no longer has any confidence in the eu. you can see it in the turnout: 42 percent of the european population voted last time. and what is your solution to that? well, the solution is more europe, more of the same policies, more of the same failures that have brought you to where you are today, when half the population of europe no longer has confidence in the eu. it must be obvious that it's not working anymore. it must be obvious that new measures are needed. if we continue in this direction, the eu as we see it today is doomed to fail.
mr president, in the times we are living in we need a strong europe, but we also need to understand that visions are more than institutions. visions are never about institutions. sometimes i feel that we underestimate how much we have achieved in recent decades: reunification, the single market, what could be the most competitive global economy if we take the right decisions, the fact that we can create financial stability and ensure we have the scientific research that can make us leaders, and the fact we have such a strong political identity that other parts of the world and our neighbours lean towards our values. that is what we are capable of. we have achieved not just unification: we have achieved the opportunities to take decisions. sometimes i feel that we lack the real political will to take these decisions because we fall into the trap of ever-ongoing discussions about institutions to replace the old institutions. we do, of course, need to discuss the balance of powers, but we can do that only if we put unity before uniformity and accept that europe’s strength is plurality, openness, the safeguarding of our values and the eagerness and willingness to take political decisions to make the visions come true. that is more important than these discussions about institutions. they are very important, but the vision of a strong europe is stronger.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, protecting children, especially those in migration, is a top priority of our policies. by securing the future of children, europe is securing its own future and not only that. children in migration need to be protected, assisted and offered durable solutions at all stages of migration. we have to ensure that they are not exploited, abused or trafficked. this challenge is becoming even more pressing given that, in 2016, children represented 26% of the arrivals by sea. this is an almost tenfold increase since 2010. many of them are unaccompanied minors. moreover, shortly after their arrival in europe, an increasing number of minors abscond or disappear. in spite of the efforts taken at european and national level, the situation of minors remains unsatisfactory and protection gaps must still be filled. ensuring adequate assistance, in terms both of material supply, adequate reception and care and of legal information and psycho-social support, is key to building trust and avoiding absconding. the commission is working on concrete and comprehensive actions to ensure the protection of children in migration. the european agenda on migration and the action plan on unaccompanied minors constitute our starting point. the commission will also follow up on the conclusions of the 10th european forum on the rights of the child, organised in november 2016, and on the outcome of the recent ‘lost in migration’ conference organised by missing children europe in malta in january. in greece, the commission is actively supporting the appointment of a child protection officer in each hotspot. here, the availability of sufficient dedicated reception facilities remains a challenge both on the islands and on the mainland. over 1 000 unaccompanied children are still awaiting a shelter placement. eu funding is available under the asylum, migration and integration fund to support capacity building, provide relevant infrastructure and develop operational actions in frontline member states. additional funding is also available under the rights, equality and citizenship programme to improve child protection in migration. in 2017, priorities on combating violence against children and women explicitly include children in migration. funding under the emergency support instrument has also been made available for child protection activities. the european asylum support office (easo), the european border and coast guard and europol are also supporting frontline member states in identifying unaccompanied minors and providing information on relocation. they offer capacity-building activities and collaborate with public security departments for investigations on smuggling and trafficking. ensuring legal means of transfer is another key aspect to prevent minors absconding and falling into smugglers’ traps. the dublin system, including transfers and family reunification, and the relocation schemes must work efficiently and fast. all those involved need to collaborate better to implement these procedures smoothly. for the moment, only 205 unaccompanied minors have been relocated from greece and italy and, as we all understand, this is unsatisfactory. however, the commission is working closely with member states in this respect. it has deployed dedicated teams in frontline member states to address this matter. moreover, last year’s proposals to reform the common european asylum system aim at strengthening the guarantees available for vulnerable persons, including children. the proposals include provisions on safe accommodation in suitable reception facilities, and prompt and effective guardianship for unaccompanied minors who apply for asylum. in the absence of travel documents, fingerprinting is one of the very few options for identifying a person. for this reason, last year’s reform proposals also aim to lower the minimum age for fingerprinting from 14 to six years old, with a view to reducing the risk of minors going missing. swift progress on all asylum proposals is now needed in the european parliament and the council. if children go missing, they have to be found, and they have to be found fast. existing instruments to report and record child disappearances must be fully used. the schengen information system (sis) constitutes the only europe-wide information exchange on missing persons in general. for this system to be useful, missing children must be reported to the police and other relevant responsible authorities. they, in turn, should immediately record the disappearance in the schengen information system, attaching photographs and fingerprints and indicating that the child is unaccompanied. currently the information system stores information on about 100 000 missing persons in 29 european countries, out of which about 65 000 are children. in 2016, 5 687 persons were found on the basis of sis. in addition, the commission has recently proposed to improve the information system. for instance, we suggest having a new type of preventive alert for missing unaccompanied children, to be issued in cases when a child is particularly at risk. better use must also be made of the existing ‘missing children’ hotline (116 000). for instance, all reception centre managers should report all cases of children going missing via this hotline. as you can see, many actions are ongoing to protect children better in migration, and the european union will step up its efforts. the migration crisis has been exploited by ruthless criminal networks, involved in trafficking in human beings, to target the most vulnerable, in particular women and children. it is our duty to protect children. we need to focus on prevention, the quality of care and protection. we must reinforce our fight against the criminals, mobilise and inform public opinion and put pressure on member states to use all tools available to protect children in migration. let us live up to the challenge and address it by using all resources in a united and coordinated manner.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his commitment. a real tragedy is unfolding in europe, which needs urgent and concrete action. more than a year ago, europol sounded the alarm when tens of thousands of migrant children went missing. they had been trafficked, abused, exploited and exposed. it is happening today in europe. we are far away from a zero tolerance policy against traffickers and smugglers. with the intergroup on children’s rights in this parliament, together with missing children europe, we have been at the forefront in putting this emergency at the top of the eu agenda. we call on the police to prioritise missing children, without double standards between european and migrant children. we need effective rules for cross-border cooperation and increased cooperation with europol, filling the existing gaps. we need to allocate more resources to hotlines, to help report disappearances and build trust with migrant children to prevent them from running away, to make sure children remain in the protection system and to provide them with a safe environment and decent living standards. children must be registered when entering the european union and i support the commissioner’s reform proposal for eurodac, moving to take fingerprints from the age of six, to be able to protect them and to trace them. member states need also to increase their interoperability between the schengen and the visa information system and, as we revise the asylum package, we cannot sacrifice children. europe should mean safety for them. what if it was our child missing?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the debate on children, and particularly unaccompanied children, has been flawed from the beginning. i can understand that many of you have got the wrong idea. often when we talk about migration and children, the media finds a picture of a little child, often a girl, an image that indirectly says that the child has been separated from her parents while fleeing to europe. of course, the picture is different. if there is any country that knows about the phenomenon of unaccompanied children, it is sweden. we received 35,000 in 2015. the reason why single people chose sweden is of course twofold: welfare and age tests. sweden has not yet introduced mandatory age tests for asylum seekers. what if it's a large group that deliberately deviates to get to the country they originally wanted instead? what if it's a group where most of the people claim to be seventeen years old and then magically have a wife and kids when they get their asylum application approved?
in writing. 10,000 migrant children are missing in europe. we hear these numbers over and over again. but the missing children are not gone, they are alive and in our midst. they disappear for fear of being sent back. when children have no safe place to go, they take refuge in the place that will receive them. they end up in organized gangs, they sell drugs to survive, they are sexually exploited, they are denied access to school, health care or any of the rights that children have. these are adults who have taken away their right to a safe place. they're adults who have taken away their hope. some children are so betrayed that they choose to take their own lives. we must give these children their right to a natural place in the world: we must give them residence permits and do so immediately through a general amnesty. children need to know they're wanted. as olof palme said: there are no your children or my children, there are only our children. and this is what the children need to know. today, this very minute.
madam president, i would like to thank you. everyone in this house knows, or should know, that the gender pay gap in the eu is enormous, not least because it is 2017 and the principle of equal pay was written into the treaty of rome 60 years ago. it should be taken for granted that women and men should receive equal pay for equal work, but finding a solution obviously takes time. women still represent a disproportionate share of those working part-time. they are also overrepresented in precarious, insecure forms of employment. according to the latest available statistics from the eurofound, the trend towards parttime work is increasing. the same eurofound statistics also show that women in families with children under seven spend 32 hours a week in paid work and 39 hours in unpaid work. for men, the figures are 49 hours of paid work and 15 hours of unpaid work. in my home country, sweden, which is often used as an example in the discussion of gender equality, we will not reach the principle of equal pay for another 33 years at the current pace. in sweden the pay gap is 12.5%; in the eu it is even higher and therefore we need to take real action now.
madam president, to achieve equal pay for equal work is a top priority for women’s empowerment and the lack of progress is frankly frustrating. the gender pay gap is a challenge throughout europe in all kinds of jobs. even in sweden, my country, a champion of gender equality, women earn in a lifetime on average eur 300 000 less than men. so what are we to do? there is no one-size-fits-all solution. it is a structural problem that needs to be dealt with from different angles and nationally. member states have to ensure that women have equal career opportunities in all fields, and this includes care facilities for children and a culture of shared family responsibility between men and women, to facilitate and encourage women entrepreneurship and to fight discrimination. the private sector, where the gender pay gap is more common, should take its share of the responsibility. it is important that we join forces at all levels to raise awareness, putting pressure on member states to take concrete actions and share best practices.
madam president, thank you, madam commissioner, for your commitment on violence against women. today, i wish to reach out to the women and children of russia that have lost legal protection from domestic violence, to show them solidarity. the new russian law trivialising domestic violence is a serious setback in combating violence against women. it sounds chilling that beating up your wife, your partner or child becomes simply an administrative offence, like wrongly parking your car, unless permanent damage is caused. it is even absurd to think that this kind of abuse by a loved one would not cause permanent damage to the victim. domestic violence is violence. it is not a private issue, it is a crime, and it has to be treated as such. traditional sexist maxims never justify this violence. women’s rights are human rights. these are universal values under the united nations charter. it is not the west versus russia. or is it about ideology, patriotism, nationalism, a way to disempower women? we are not interfering in domestic affairs, but standing up for humanity. russia is a member of the united nations and the council of europe, and should behave as such, first of all by signing and ratifying the istanbul convention on violence against women. i call on the eu and on the council of europe to raise this issue in particular at the upcoming un conference on the status of women and to urge russia to modify the law.
madam president, many of us have received e-mails from concerned eu citizens in the uk. one group of people have not sent these letters, but they do have a lot to worry about. there are up to 300 000 roma migrants in the uk. recently, a report from the institute for public policy research warned that roma eu migrants in britain face a triple whammy of challenges, legal limbo in terms of residency, and an increase in racist attacks of 57% since the referendum. for them, having to leave britain would mean not knowing if they would have to send their kids to bed hungry. you will probably not receive any e-mails about this, but i would like to ask you, colleagues, to put some thought and action into the situation of the most vulnerable casualties of brexit.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. when the european parliament and the council of ministers adopted the new regulation on the court of justice of the european union, it was a success for gender equality that we got our demand for equal gender representation through the expansion of the tribunal. it is therefore very unfortunate that we now see, at the time of appointment, that only five of the 15 newly appointed judges are women. this means that the member states do not respect this agreement with parliament. if we are serious about achieving equality between women and men, which is also advocated in our eu cooperation under article 3 of the treaty, then the court of justice of the eu must be gender equal. it is also important that we reflect the people of the eu. the 500 million people who live and work in the eu have the right to the rule of law and thus to be represented by the judiciary. i would like to know how the council intends to fulfil its commitment to promote the eu's goal of gender equality and a balanced gender role in the european court of justice?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i want the vote on the gun directive taken off the agenda. the new arms directive has not been preceded by an impact assessment, so the proposal is not ready for a vote. i therefore ask that the weapons directive be withdrawn from the agenda and returned to the commission for an impact assessment.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there is no doubt that corporate governance in europe can be improved. it's a win-win. the agreement we have reached in the tripartite negotiations is very positive in this respect. in short, we have a more stable framework in place, which promotes greater openness and transparency for listed companies and investors, as well as a more long-term perspective. this is extremely important. as regards the work of institutional investors and asset managers, the negotiations have highlighted and emphasised the importance of maintaining strong and clear rules on increased transparency. the discussion with the council has not been entirely easy, but the result is nevertheless a step forward. while i regret that we had to give up the requirement of country-by-country reporting, it is gratifying that we have managed to put the matter on the agenda with the commission's proposal on this very subject. that said, i hope that we can adopt the agreement by a large majority tomorrow. active ownership with increased transparency and other measures that promote shareholder arrangements and facilitate the exercise of influence by shareholders are seen as positive. a big thank you to mr cofferati and to all the shadow rapporteurs who have taken part in the work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr ernest urtasun. today we're talking about equality between women and men. i would like to highlight one particular aspect of that, namely mental ill health. as a green member, i really see that well-being and balance in life are linked to a sustainable society. mental health is a major and growing problem, especially among young people, and men and women are affected differently by gender inequality. we need to stop the hate and the threats online. women's double work makes them especially vulnerable to mental illness. we need to better equip our young boys, as loneliness, crime and addiction are grossly overrepresented among men. tackling mental illness in the community is about a sustainable society - a society where everyone has a place to grow based on their particular circumstances. we have to put the human being at the center in a whole new way. it is about tackling poverty and poor labour market conditions, but also about fighting violence and discrimination. i want to see major investments in women-dominated sectors and shorter working hours. i would of course like all parents in my europe to have the right to parental leave. i want special efforts to empower young boys and men to break destructive male norms. i also want to see investments in building young girls' confidence and opportunity. let feminism have its way!
mr president, after the elections in macedonia, president ivanov does not want to hand over power to the opposition. his reasons are, as he stated, that ‘he does not like the programme of the opposition’. according to the president, the governing agreement that includes the albanian parties will destroy the country. well, i am sorry to say, but since these were fair and legitimate elections, whether the president or prime minister likes the results or not, whether they like the opposition programme or opposition agreement or not, it does not matter. a very dangerous situation is developing in macedonia. the ruling party is organising demonstrations trying to arouse nationalistic sentiments. macedonia is like an overheating oil pan waiting for the match to light it up. the eu needs to say, clearly and loudly, that the election results have to be respected, and the high representative has to explain that the macedonian president ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the arms directive is a matter of great concern to many people across europe. law-abiding and careful hunters and shooters suddenly felt designated as terrorists and realized that their respective activities could be banned in principle. i can see that. as vicky ford said here, the proposal was presented in haste and in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in paris, even though it was prepared with the aim of increasing the security of european citizens by closing loopholes in the existing law that has been in place for many years. a hasty proposal to ban an entire category of weapons without investigating the consequences of it was the triggering factor. there's been some criticism that we should be focusing on legislation on illegal weapons instead. the arms directive, however, is not, as i see it, a measure to combat terrorism. it is about setting a minimum level for the laws of eu countries, for who is allowed to use weapons and how legal weapons are to be handled within the union. the enhancements we are taking today are about reducing the risk of legal weapons falling into the wrong hands or being used in the wrong way. for example, loopholes are being filled in the rules on deactivation and marking of weapons, but also on information exchange between member states, suitability tests and stricter rules on the most dangerous weapons. the weapons directive does not at all oppose efforts to combat illegal weapons. on the contrary, in addition to the arms directive, intensive work is also being done to tackle the illegal arms on the black market. this is more about operational measures such as cross-border police and customs cooperation, arms amnesties and procurement programmes to prevent the acquisition of mainly military weapons from conflict-affected areas, so that criminals or terrorists cannot access them. there are major differences in the current regulatory frameworks in the member states. since some countries have very strict rules and others less strict, some have compulsory medical examinations and others none at all, it is obvious that we must create a better standard of living for everyone. i agree with everything that vicky ford has said here before.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are here today for what i hope is the final vote by parliament to approve the revised firearms directive. we have one shared objective, namely to cut off and limit the access of criminals and terrorists to guns. our citizens rightly expect us to deliver on this to reinforce our collective security. that means cracking down on the trade in illegal weapons, but it also means strengthening controls on legally held firearms where there are gaps and vulnerabilities. far from penalising legitimate gun owners and gun users, as some have suggested, by revising the directive we are in fact enlisting their support in the fight against those who misuse guns. we know that there are many law—abiding citizens who pursue hobbies involving firearms and who do not want those firearms to fall into the wrong hands. we completely respect that. the revision of the directive is not designed to stop people enjoying their pastimes, but, as we crack down on the illegal trade in weapons, we need to strengthen the rules around the acquisition, possession, storage and traceability of legal firearms. clearer rules on marking and registration should improve traceability, providing reassurance for legal gun owners that their weapons cannot be used with impunity should they fall into the wrong hands. like all of us, i would very much like to be able to say that criminal violence and terrorist attacks are a thing of the past. sadly, that is not the case, so it is important not to be naive about the ongoing threat level or its likely consequences. ensuring that criminals and terrorists do not find it easy to acquire powerful and dangerous firearms with the intention of harming our fellow citizens is a collective responsibility that encompasses both the legal and the illegal trade. the fact that the perpetrators of terrorist atrocities in the last two years were able to use modified acoustic and deactivated weapons that were bought legally was the driving force behind the commission’s proposal to revise the directive. en effet, la directive actuelle sur les armes à feu, qui date de 1991, comporte des failles de sécurité importantes. ainsi, nous savons que certaines des armes à feu qui ont été utilisées dans les attaques à charlie hebdo étaient des armes acoustiques qui ont été transformées en armes létales. or, la directive actuelle n’encadre pas les armes acoustiques. nous savons également que des armes mal désactivées peuvent être réactivées et utilisées pour tuer. de même, certaines armes automatiques transformées en semi-automatiques, autorisées par la directive actuelle, peuvent, avec un peu d'expérience et des outils disponibles sur l’internet, être reconverties en armes automatiques. il nous fallait agir d’urgence pour combler ces lacunes et renforcer la sécurité de nos citoyens. the revised directive represents a compromise. it is well known that the commission favoured doing more in some areas, but it was the subject of extensive discussion and i want here to recognise the work that has been done by members of this parliament and by the member states to reach today’s result, and that result will significantly further strengthen security in a number of key areas, as we have heard. first, it will prohibit automatic firearms which have been transformed into semi-automatics. in addition, the directive will also ban semi-automatic firearms that have a high firing capacity: above 10 rounds for the long semi-automatic firearms, and above 20 rounds for the short ones. the commission would have liked to go further, but recognises that the co-legislators did not support going further. second, alarm and acoustic weapons will fall within the scope of the directive for the first time. these firearms will now need to be declared or authorised in order to ensure traceability. this is particularly important given, as we know, some of the recent attacks involved converted alarm and acoustic weapons. third, museums and collectors will also fall within the scope of the directive. following a request from parliament and the council, however, they will be allowed, subject to strict security conditions, to possess category a firearms. fourth, deactivated firearms must now be declared to national authorities and registered. this is key to prevent the illegal sale of reactivated firearms or parts of firearms. to complete this measure and ensure that the deactivation process is carried out in an effective and irreversible manner, the commission proposed an implementing regulation to ensure common standards across the eu. this regulation, in force since april 2016, is currently being revised and strengthened to address technical issues flagged by some member states, and indeed by members of parliament. two rounds of expert meetings have resulted in agreement on draft revised technical specifications. these are now being stress-tested by national practitioners and experts, who will report back in late march. provided the stress tests have not revealed any remaining major problems, the firearms committee will then be in a position formally to adopt the revised strengthened regulation by the end of april. other important measures have also been included in the revised directive, such as stricter conditions for the online acquisition of firearms, clearer rules on the marking of firearms to improve traceability, and the establishment of a system to improve exchange of information between member states. in revising the directive, we have sought to strike a balance. at the request of council and parliament, a derogation has been agreed, as we have heard, for sport shooters to acquire otherwise prohibited firearms under strict conditions, including proof of a legitimate and regular sport-shooting activity for which the weapon is required. hunters should not be affected by the revised directive, as they would not usually use the type of firearms that will be prohibited. at the same time, we have continued to step up our action against trafficking in firearms, implementing the eu action plan of december 2015. that includes appointing national focal points to track, trace and gather intelligence on illegal firearms. i have written to member states recently about this to ensure that we all implement what we have signed up to. it also means strengthening cooperation with the authorities across the balkans to crack down on illegal trafficking in that region. that said, we need to keep working on this. the europol serious and organised crime threat assessment published last week shows that weapons trafficking remains a key crime area. illegal firearms are increasingly available online via the dark net, a key facilitator for the trade in illegal firearms. so we will continue to tackle firearms trafficking as a priority under the new eu policy cycle for the years 2018 to 2021, allowing national law enforcement authorities and europol to take coordinated action against firearms trafficking and, notably, the online trade. to conclude, i would like to thank you again for all the effort that went into achieving this balanced deal that respects legitimate users, while reinforcing our collective security. it will help further to squeeze the space in which criminals and terrorists operate and seek to do us harm. your vote today is a key step, but the work does not end there. once agreed, the directive will need to be implemented in member states. the commission stands ready to assist in this process and will closely monitor its implementation. written declarations of the commission on theproposal for a directive amending directive 91/477/eec on the control and acquisition and possession of weapons 1) written declaration of the commission the european commission is satisfied that the co-legislators have reached an agreement on the revised firearm directive. these new rules will substantially reduce the likelihood of dangerous but legally held weapons falling into the hands of criminals and terrorists. at the same time, the commission regrets that some parts of the original proposal were not supported by the parliament and the council– in particular concerning semi-automatic firearms where the commission had proposed a greater level of ambition with a complete ban of the most dangerous semi-automatic firearms, including all semi-automatic firearms of the ak47 or ar15 families. the commission also regrets that the magazine size was not limited to 10 rounds for all semi-automatic firearms. the commission also stresses the importance of the proper implementation of the strict security rules relating to collectors. 2) written declaration of the commission on deactivation the commission recognises the importance of a well-functioning standard for deactivation, which contributes to improved levels of safety and gives authorities reassurance that deactivated weapons are properly and effectively deactivated. the commission will, therefore, accelerate the work on the revision of the deactivation criteria conducted by national experts in the committee established under directive 477/91/eec in order to allow the commission to adopt, by the end of may 2017, in accordance with the committee procedure established by directive 91/477/eec, subject to a positive opinion by national experts, a commission implementing regulation amending commission implementing regulation (eu) 2015/2403 of 15 december 2015 establishing common guidelines on deactivation standards and techniques for ensuring that deactivated firearms are rendered irreversibly inoperable. the commission calls on member states to fully support the acceleration of this work.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today we are improving security in europe without reducing people's freedom. we're clogging up dangerous crevices. it is not enough for some countries to have good rules, we need common minimum rules because we have a single market and free movement. this is not a counterterrorism team. we'll take other measures for illegal weapons. it's about keeping legal guns from falling into the wrong hands. it's happened. it's not one or the other. i am involved because this affects many people in europe. i come from a family of six generations of hunters. i understand their legitimate concern and distress. law-abiding citizens have felt attacked. i have met with the organizations concerned and am impressed by the ethics of safety that exists among hunters and shooters. i want to assure them that the commission's proposal is dead and buried. in an open and democratic process, i have listened and acted. subsidiarity has enabled us to ensure that those countries which have a functioning system today can maintain it. we in the epp group have been protecting hunters and athletes. i want to reassure them: you will be able to continue your leisure activities as they are now. we've fought from the inside and surgically removed the proposed ban on distance selling. we do not punish rural areas, but we take account of the situation in northern sweden and finland, for example. we have also removed the requirement of compulsory medical examination and a temporary licence. it's time we had a debate based on facts. i don't want people to worry about anything. it's a test of leadership. there's no excuse for it being complicated. i urge my liberal friends not to betray objectivity and to fish for simple votes. we must not allow the directive to become a symbol of brussels against the people. our mission is to respond to people's concerns, not play on their emotions. you must dare to be responsible, even if it's easier to be populist. mr president, we cannot also reject the directive because we are afraid of how it will be interpreted at national level. the epp group calls on the member states to implement it correctly, without adding to it. i promise to follow up on that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the proposal for a new arms directive has been presented by the eu as a way of fighting terrorists and organised crime. but that only affects legal gun owners. the commission has therefore used a wrong basis to launch this legislation, and this is contrary to all democratic principles in the western world. in other words: there is a huge democratic deficit in the process that the eu is conducting. in addition, the commission has not allowed an impact assessment, which is clear given the high degree of legal uncertainty created by this act. vote no to the weapons directive and instead raise your voice for the eu to secure its external borders and implement measures that are directly targeted at terrorists and not legal gun owners, one of our most law-abiding groups of citizens. do it again and do it right. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) kristina winberg has not been involved in any way in the negotiations. she has done nothing to improve the directive. if the commission's proposal was so bad, why haven't you engaged in the process? what we are voting on today is not the commission's proposal, but an agreement between the council and parliament which has completely changed the commission's proposal. how does it affect legal gun owners? how is it not democratic when we are elected parliamentarians who have negotiated with 28 elected governments which are the same governments that sit in the capitals? in what way would a directive to be introduced through national parliaments be undemocratic? it's a directive. read your papers and stick to the facts!
(blue card) maria, i belong to the popular parties that listen to the people. i've been to gun owners, shooting clubs, hunters, gun collectors... and i don't know everything. i've been reading up on it as much as i can. even if you say i didn't do anything, we've written amendments and tried everything to make sure this idiotic bill doesn't pass. you know yourself that there's such a small percentage where you see legal weapons being used in murder and crime. it's like fishing in deep water or looking for a needle in a haystack. you're wrong!
mr president, i would like to ask vice-president timmermans if the absence of the responsible commissioner on the internal market, bieńkowska, or the vice-president responsible, katainen, this morning to present the revision of the firearms directive was justified, or if it was a deliberate decision to have the home affairs commissioner to present an internal market legislation. this parliament spent one year to tell the commission that it is not an anti-terror law. it is because we have freedom of movement that we need to have minimum common rules in the internal market. why do you not listen to us and make it so difficult to put the facts on the ground on what this directive is about?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the proposal for a directive on weapons on the table is a priority. it will not solve the problems of illegal shooting and terrorism, but will only make life more difficult for hunters and sport shooters. does anyone believe that those who plan to carry out illegal shootings want to end up in police gun controls and submit to all the checks that a person who legally owns a gun must go through? of course not! this directive therefore misses its purpose. instead, it affects hunters and sports shooters. the directive also contains vague concepts and many national exceptions. the proposal would make switzerland a full exemption from these rules, but sweden would have them. is that reasonable? you try to limit the storage capacity without defining the storage. i am sorry, but this directive must be rejected. it is common sense.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have voted for a good balance between security and freedom, which does not change the situation for sport shooters and hunters. i am surprised that so many misconceptions are being spread through the media and in parliament. what's the source? have you read the text? i have not heard from the liberals or the swedish democrats how this affects hunters, how it affects sports shooters, how it does not increase safety. you criticize without telling me why. it's easy to pick up your finger and feel where the wind is blowing and just be against it. the debate must be based on facts. you're misleading the people with falsehoods. you're the ones creating discontent, it's pure populism, it's irresponsible. many of those who criticize, such as jasenko selimović, do so at the eleventh hour. you haven't seen that in negotiations before? what have you done to improve the directive? why don't you tell me that it has fundamentally changed the original proposal in a democratic way? why don't you tell us that our legal gun owners can continue their recreational activities and keep their guns? there will be no compulsory medical examination, no ban on distance selling or time-limited licences. this is not a counterterrorism squad. it's about the control of legal weapons. there are dangerous loopholes that really need to be addressed immediately, such as the acoustic weapons used at charlie hebdo.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, i am here on behalf of my dear colleague, commission vice-president/high representative federica mogherini. as you know, president donald trump has reinstated the mexico city policy with a presidential memorandum issued on 23 january. this policy requires foreign non-governmental organisations to certify that they will not ‘perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning,’ as a condition for receiving us global health assistance. this also includes ngos receiving funds from outside the us. the policy, when in effect, applies to foreign ngos as a condition for receiving us family planning support, either directly or indirectly. so the commission is concerned about the possible implications for our objective of achieving universal coverage in health and reproductive health services, particularly in developing countries. eventually, this decision might also impact on our sustainable development goals, targets to reduce maternal mortality, and to empower women to take more informed decisions about their health. in the poorest countries of the world, this can put the lives of young women and girls at risk. and we do not want the progress that we have made over the past decade on women’s rights to be lost. let me be clear: european union policies are driven by our own priorities and values, not by what others do or stop doing. as far as humanitarian aid is concerned, what i can say, as the commissioner for humanitarian aid, is that our approach is based on needs. our humanitarian partners which consider that abortion would be appropriate are not prevented from doing so. we have never issued instructions to the contrary. a decision on abortion will depend on various factors: the woman’s wishes after she has received all relevant information, definitely her condition, and the legal framework of the country, of course, which could influence the security of both the woman and humanitarian workers. in this context, decisions on how to treat women and girls are always better left to doctors. it is not something for lawyers to prescribe. let me add that we are also continuing our work to prevent sexual and gender-based violence. focusing on the treatment of violence can only ever be a second-best. prevention is also the reason why we have strengthened the place of gender in our humanitarian aid. over the past decade, the commission has allocated around eur 200 million annually from the humanitarian budget to healthcare, including sexual and reproductive health. in parallel, my dear colleague, commissioner neven mimica, issued a press statement on 1 february 2017 underlining that the commission will continue to play a leading role in ensuring women’s access to health and family planning services around the world. he also attended the ‘she decides’ event on 2 march 2017 and reiterated our commitment. several governments and private philanthropists have pledged nearly usd 200 million for family planning services. we are also assessing the potential impact of a loss of funding for the un population fund (unfpa). the funding gap could be large. together with member states and civil society in particular we are analysing the us contribution to the fund in order to determine the best approach to take. we remain strongly committed to supporting global health initiatives such as unfpa, into which we are putting eur 20 million for 2016 and 2017; and also the global fund, to which we have pledged eur 475 million for 2017 to 2019. or gavi, the vaccine alliance, to which we have pledged eur 200 million for 2016 to 2020; and the partnership programme with the world health organisation and luxembourg, worth eur 28 million, for 2016 to 2018. the informal foreign affairs and development ministerial meeting on thursday will enable this matter to be addressed. we will have an impact only if we respond together, with a common european position.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, thank you so much, commissioner, for everything you are doing. i strongly condemn the newly instated global gag rule. we had an alarm call from africa, through asia to latin america, on the serious consequences for the health of hundreds of thousands of women and girls globally. today my thoughts really go to all these women and girls who are at risk of losing a very important health programme. this also applies to the zika virus, aids prevention, on prenatal and postnatal basic assistance for babies and young women, victims of rape, and victims of female genital mutilation. the risk is that women’s mortality is going to increase and that there will be more illegal and unsafe abortion. last week we were marking the international day of women. we met fantastic women from tunisia, morocco, kosovo, all over the world. we were told terrible stories of a woman that was found with a piece of a television antenna in her uterus because she wanted to interrupt her pregnancy. another one had drunk pesticide and died. this is not to mention the victims of isis and daesh slavery, and the girls that come back, having been released from boko haram, and who are refused into their communities and cannot in the new circumstances get assistance for their basic health and reproductive rights and for their children. what we are talking about is not whether you are for abortion or against abortion. we are talking about humanitarian law: health, safety, child protection and women’s rights are human rights. no woman or girl should have to risk her life to have a baby. that is what we are talking about. there is a chorus of concern that is coming from ngos, save the children and the united nations. europe has to step in. this is our opportunity to show leadership. trump’s sexism is as bad as the problem that we have with security in europe and with free trade with the new administration. i am glad that the ‘she decides’ campaign has been so successful. i am glad that today we have voted to devote european funds to compensate for this setback. i hope that more pledges will come, and the test is going to be next week at the united nations conference on the status of women. i call on member states to do their part and to raise their voice. let us continue to support the women’s march in the usa and europe, and women’s health in the world.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. every republican presidential administration in the united states has enacted this gag rule, but this one is worse than most. it goes even further. it essentially stifles all support for women's sexual and reproductive health. good sexual and reproductive health is a matter of life and death for women around the globe. however, it is also a question of being able to live a full life or a half-life, of having control over one's body and sexuality or not having it. this rule of mouth is such a profound disregard for women, for our health and for our well-being. but as our colleagues from the united states who work for pro-choice said: we will not be silent, we will not be silenced. just as various member states stand up for women's rights, so too must the eu now do so. i welcome the she decides initiative. it's part of the answer, but it's not enough. it is too quiet from the commission, and it is too quiet from the council. my question is what the eu will do, not only at political level but also in terms of funding. the european parliament has acted. we have voted in both the last and the present partsession. we want to see more funding, more funding for women's sexual and reproductive health and rights. but now we want to see the council and the commission take action too. we need clear recommendations to our partner organisations on how to ensure that they will be able to continue to provide essential and life-saving abortion care. we need to increase the budget for assistance to women's health and sexual and reproductive health and rights. i would like to say this, namely that one's commitment and sincerity are tested when it is powerful. if the eu is serious about women's rights, now is the time to step up and take concrete action. we will therefore condemn the eu's gag rule, we will take the fight to international forums, and we will push for more money! i look forward to those decisions, both in the council and in the commission.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? this goes out to president donald trump and all of you who take away your right to control women's bodies. no one should deny a woman the right to terminate a pregnancy if she chooses to do so. making it harder for women to have abortions only leads to more illegal abortions, which are carried out at great risk to women's lives and at great cost to society. it's really a matter of life and death. i'm ready to take up the fight for women's rights, sexual and reproductive rights and freedom of choice. two million girls give birth before they're 15. these girls don't need less support, they need more. it's exactly what president trump and many other anti-abortion activists don't want to give women the right to - the right to their own bodies. what governments in europe stand up and say: that's enough. she always decides? the swedish government and some 50 other countries met in march at the she decides conference in brussels. the conference raised 180 million euros from a variety of countries around the world for sexual and reproductive rights. resistance is growing to the global gag rule. together we are strong.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. my colleagues! next week we will be going to geneva with a delegation from the european parliament to present our common position on the situation of human rights in the world. i'd like to start with the most important thing: the eu must now, more than ever, speak out clearly to protect, promote and strengthen what is the origin and the backbone of the eu peace and peaceful cooperation between countries. we have a super tool in our hands, the realization of human rights. let's seriously start using this now. the eu must also work closer to the un, particularly in the various un human rights mechanisms. this is a much more important cooperation than the internal market or the single currency. don't get me wrong. economic issues are central, but we must remember that they are only tools, not an end in themselves. the aim must be a policy that provides every person with security and freedom every day. when we look out over the world today, we see increased tensions, belligerency, occupation and regulated war. the patriarchal logic and rhetoric says that we must go hard against hard, that we must protect borders and defend ourselves, increase defense, establish military alliances, prepare for war. we hear these arguments whirling around our legs trying to make us fall over. what we see from history, however, is that this patriarchal logic of hatred does not create greater security and safety, on the contrary. it leads us to war and destruction and dehumanization. it leads to a situation where we can justify in some inhuman way the death of children and the rape of women in defence of a hill. involving women in the reconstruction of communities that have suffered conflict is a fundamental pillar in seeking reconciliation to move forward as humanity. it is of the utmost importance here that we do not allow perpetrators to go through life with impunity. giving reparation to victims is central to the peace process. even in times of peace, women's rights are strongly questioned. our sexual and reproductive rights are facing a loud resistance. like violence, this resistance strikes at the very core of our freedom - the freedom to control our own bodies. here we must take a clear stand on the right to be a human subject. the same alarming development is seen in the death penalty. several countries have broken their moratorium on executions, and some are also discussing reintroducing the death penalty. the eu and the un must be clear about their zero acceptance of state executions. every human being has the right to his life. in short, we are seeing a growing global opposition to human rights. its defenders face increasing threats and are subject to both prosecution and slander. the way forward requires courage and a clear stand on human rights. the eu must now show that courage.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, shadow rapporteurs, commission and council for their good cooperation. we did not, of course, agree about everything all the time, but i think we have found a good compromise. the proposed new rules on efficient hygiene control seek to deliver improved controls and enforcement along the agri—food chain. our efforts have addressed three main objectives. first, better safety control along the agri—food chain, which i think we will get through the effective controls system based on risk. second, more effective rules against fraudulent practices. european citizens want us to secure high safety standards, and these new rules are – or will be – delivering on that point. third, the new efficient controls will also ensure a high level of human, animal and plant health along the agri-food chain. this legislation will update and harmonise our framework to better adapt to the more than globalised market and increasingly complex agri—food chain, which today requires flexibility while maintaining high safety standards. we can be content and satisfied with the deal agreed. the final text is balanced, creates transparency and safeguards the independence of operatives and authorities, as well as the efficiency and consistency of the rules. i can without hesitation recommend that my colleagues in the group adopt this regulation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament debate in february warned of an impending humanitarian crisis in south sudan. and now we stand here and witness it happen. but famine threatens not only south sudan but also yemen, nigeria, and somalia in what has been called the greatest humanitarian disaster since world war ii. it is not acceptable that people should go hungry today when we have all the information we have, when we know in advance what is going to happen. then it's not acceptable for the outside world to turn a blind eye. as a parent, i say what many parents have said before me: through my child, i see the children of the world. as a european, when i put my child to bed tonight, safe and sound, i know that there are mothers in other parts of the world in countries where there is no guarantee that the child will get enough sleep. this is not acceptable. we in the eu must do much more in solidarity with the children who are starving.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, we welcome the political agreement in december 2016 and the swift preparation of the final text by both co-legislators. a coordinated and timely release of the 700 mhz band by mid-2020 is fundamental to establish a european world-leading 5g home market of innovative services like the connected car and high-speed rural broadband. the commission has suggested ambitious connectivity targets in its digital single market strategy, and also a structured plan for european leadership in deploying 5g mobile services. one objective is that all european households, including in rural and remote regions, should have access to connectivity offering download speeds of at least 100 mbps by 2025. in addition, uninterrupted 5g coverage should be ensured in urban areas and along major transport paths by 2025. for this to happen we need high-quality spectrum to provide wide area coverage at high speed and a reasonable cost for operators. the 700 mhz band is ideal for this purpose. with regard to the agreed sub-700 mhz band, its availability for broadcasting until 2030 ensures legal certainty for developing our european audiovisual model as well as flexibility for adapting to diverse national situations. therefore we will work closely with the member states on a timely and structured implementation of this instrument by the following steps: publishing national roadmaps for transition, a key tool to ensure predictability for our stakeholders and consistency of approaches in the single market; minimising delays for 700 mhz availability and resolving cases of cross-border interference in a timely manner; enhancing wireless coverage for high-quality connectivity for citizens and innovative services; fostering coordination of the evolving use of the sub-700 mhz band including a future review. i would like to congratulate parliament for the timely work on this file initiative, and in particular to thank the rapporteur, ms toia, for her efforts.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms toia. it was a very good cooperation and we achieved a lot, securing that the 700 mhz band can be allocated in 2020, with some adjustments for some member states if they have duly justified reasons until 2022. this means an important opportunity for europe. i think you can say that the third generation of mobile telephony was a digitalisation of telephony, and europe was in the lead with very important consequences of a positive kind for the european economy. 4g was the digitalisation of services, and europe lost the lead because of fragmentation, and because we did not deploy the networks rapidly enough. and that also had economic consequences because europe is lagging behind, not only regarding 4g but also regarding all the services that are coming from 4g. that creates problems for our competitiveness, innovation, unemployment and growth. 5g is the normalisation of the digital, and that makes the game much more important, because if we cannot be in the lead regarding 5g we will not be in the lead regarding innovative products, companies, services, and we will not be able to take the lead regarding growth, global champions and competitiveness. this has huge consequences and i think, seen from this perspective, the decision here tonight is one of the more important in europe in order to make europe strong, globally and economically. 5g is dependent on the 700 mhz band. not only because of the rapid increase in mobile data traffic, which our rapporteur described, but also because it is essential as a base for 5g regarding connectivity, regarding rural areas but also regarding the opportunity to reach through buildings and make the services possible everywhere. and 5g will mean huge opportunities for us in healthcare, for the car industry, for traffic, for small cities, indeed for everything because it will be not only the internet of things but the internet of everything or anything. and we must be aware that other parts of the world want to be in the lead: china, the us and a lot of others. i want europe to be in the lead. so let us do this as fast as possible and be as ambitious as possible regarding spectrum. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think the answer is quite simple. if we do not have the best preconditions for 5g and the services, then we will not have the best opportunities. we have seen, as regards 3g and other parts of history, that we were able to take the lead, but we will never be able to take the lead if we are not looking globally, if we are protecting our borders and closing ourselves off to the world outside. then we will not be in the lead because the thing is, if you are alone, you cannot lead. being a leader means that you are global, and i want europe to be a global leader.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, on new year's eve, president juncker will then come in on his unsteady legs and deliver one of his usual ineffectual speeches. the best i can say to president juncker is: you have a great sense of humor, and you're a decent person. but you're not a good leader or a good role model. to the newly elected president, mr tusk, i would like to say: i think that was a better speech, but i'm more interested in what you're doing here. even your own polish government doesn't want you in this position, so how can we have any confidence in you? the only reason you're still in this job is because you surround yourself with the right friends, who have your back. it's not the elite in here you should be friends with. you should be friends with the european people, because they are the ones you are paid to work for. now you've been given a new era of fantasy pay and benefits that a regular worker can only dream of. the lack of contact with reality that is constantly displayed in this house will also mean that this whole project will fall to the ground.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the member states stated in last week's council conclusions that europe's economic development must be shared by all and that the november social summit in gothenburg was welcomed. it is a step in the right direction, but then you as president must show that the european parliament also calls for a stronger social dimension for the future of europe. i therefore urge you not to sign the rome declaration unless it contains sufficient texts that prioritise fair working conditions, sustainable climate and energy policies and respect for human rights. these are the priorities that lead to the right path to security, justice and peace. but a common defence union cannot be the answer to all our challenges, any more than the building of high towers here in brussels can be interpreted as a sign of being close to our electors and our citizens.
mr president, i was in brussels airport on the day of the attack. i was in the arrivals hall waiting to go out through customs when we heard – and felt – the first explosion. then the second explosion came, and some of us thought that the roof was coming down upon us. others did not dare to run for the exit, because they thought people would stand there and shoot. my body remembers that fear, and it is in that feeling that i reject those who say that we have to learn to live with this. terrorism is man—made, and we can undo it. but i also get politically angry here, because i see a one—sided focus on militarised security and surveillance technology. i think this is short—sighted and inefficient. it will not stop the breiviks, mentioned here earlier, or the salah abdeslams of this europe. we need to shift focus and to create inclusive societies which are more equal. we need to speak about gender equality and we need to counteract racism, xenophobia and islamophobia. no rifles or surveillance technology in the world can do that. i would just finish by saying that i think we need to change the institutional set—up. we need to call together ministers ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, any functioning democracy needs the rule of law to exist. without legal certainty there is no rule of law. what we are currently witnessing from the eu institutions is legal uncertainty. what is allowed to some is banned to others. all eurosceptic parties and foundations at european level, either from the left or the right, have fallen victim to reinterpretation of the existing regulation with retrospective effect. spending that was allowed to the eu federalist organisations were forbidden to others. some civil servants have admitted being put under political pressure, and members of the bureau in charge of these matters have leaked confidential documents to the press before the recipient has received them. therefore, before reviewing the regulation on the funding of pan-european parties, you should ensure that the existing regulations are observed and applied with fair treatment, respecting political diversity and allowing freedom of expression. those attempts to silence the opposition in the only democratic institution of the eu are very worrying indeed, and this can only reinforce the anti-eu sentiment that is growing amongst our constituencies.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu was founded over 60 years ago. nazism and fascism and war were supposed to be thrown into the dustbin of history, but they weren't. mr schöpflin and a number of others have described the absurdity of the present situation - that we are financing fascist activities with eu money. no one has proposed that freedom of opinion and expression should be restricted in the slightest, but to spend european taxpayers' money on holocaust deniers, fascists, nazis is simply indecent. they have been funded under the old eu rules. on 1 january this year the new regulatory framework came into force, but this means that they can continue to receive their money via the eu. i would like to ask you, commissioner: when will the commission take these investments in fascism and nazism seriously?
the committee on regional development has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'. there is indeed a cooperation between the fourteen northernmost regions of finland, sweden and norway, the nspa northern sparsely populated areas, which are home to 2.5 million people. there too, progress must be ensured. what we have said and now include in our joint opinion is that we must ensure that adequate funds from cohesion policy and the funds are also available in these sparse areas, also referring to the 1994 accession treaty for finland and sweden. we also stress the importance of both indigenous peoples and local communities. the commission should work hand in hand with the regions in this area. because here live people who are incredibly conscious of the arctic, but who also want to survive. i am particularly pleased that we are raising the question of the establishment of an arctic information centre, because it is needed in this region.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in november, it was springtime in the arctic. in february, 3 degrees celsius were recorded at the northernmost tip of greenland, not far from the north pole. scientists have sounded the alarm about new heat records as high as 20 degrees above normal. with the same temperature rise in sweden, we would have had bathing weather in the middle of winter. the ice melts with each passing day, and as the white ice sheet is replaced by dark water, the sun's rays are absorbed into the water, heating it up, and so the ice melts as well by the warmer water below. we know that the people who will be most affected by the melting of the ice are people in low-lying areas like bangladesh and small islands in the pacific. where we greens see a coming climate catastrophe, unfortunately others see a business opportunity. under the ice sheet, more of the fossil fuels that have caused the warming in the first place are lying. the greens therefore want to ban the exploitation of oil, gas and other natural resources, which risk damaging the climate and the fragile arctic environment. we want to establish new national reserves and an international moratorium on arctic waters. only then can we protect the arctic and only then can we achieve the climate goals we have set ourselves.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr urmas paet and mr sirpa pietikäinen, for their hard work, which has resulted in a very good report after the vote in committee - a result which i really hope will stand up in tomorrow's vote in plenary. the arctic ice is melting faster every year. as the ice shrinks, areas where no one has fished before are exposed. it is, in fact, the only area of the earth's surface that is completely untouched by man. at the same time, more and more vessels are fishing with bottom trawls and moving further north as the ice melts. we still lack the science on these vulnerable ecosystems in the arctic. we in the eu must therefore push for a total moratorium on industrial fishing and a ban on the use of bottom trawls in waters where no fishing has taken place before. we also need to establish a marine sanctuary in the international waters around the north pole where all extraction, including oil, gas and fishing, is prohibited. it is important that the eu pushes the issue to protect the arctic from all types of exploitation. if we are to meet our climate goals of a maximum of 1.5 degrees of warming, all extraction of oil and gas must be banned. i call on everyone to vote for a ban on oil drilling today.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. this evening we are discussing the report on e-democracy, an excellent report which i hope will be welcomed. it contains a lot of good things about e-government and open source and e-advice overall excellent. however, there is an opportunity to do even better by also endorsing the greens' claim to lobby control. you can applaud that. there is, however, a weakness in this report, namely that it may be a little too favourable to e-voting. it was even more positive at the draft level, but we have managed to get compromises that will calm down the e-voting enthusiasts and hopefully make them realize that if you use e-voting, you have to have data security so that the secrecy of the vote is preserved. we must also ensure that the outcome of the vote can be trusted. in today's system, it's terribly, terribly difficult. so we have to be very careful with e-voting. e-government and e-democracy are extremely important. i think we can do without e-voting. i welcome this excellent report.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i want to start by thanking the rapporteur, my colleague marco affronte. i, of course, welcome the report, the negotiating agreement and the work conducted by the team. the new rules on data collection are intended to align this framework with the requirements of the reformed common fisheries policy. one of the things of particular importance to the greens is sustainable fishing, to keep stocks above levels that can reduce maximum sustainable yield (msy). this is respecting the objectives of the cfp, as provided in article 2(2) [of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013]. reliable stock assessment, including fmsy, is essential to establish fisheries conservation measures, and to ensure that fishing is environmentally sustainable and economically profitable. we need reliable, comprehensive and long-term data for the purpose of decisions on fisheries management and for the protection of ecosystems, including vulnerable species and habitats. in that respect, we stress the importance of the new framework for data collection, the obligation of the member states on collection, storage, protection and provision of data, and cooperation within, and between, the member states. yesterday we discussed the increasingly vulnerable situation in the arctic. this is a real example of where we need more science and more data to better understand the unique ecosystems that are now revealed – they have never been touched by mankind, and are being revealed now that the arctic ice is melting.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. my colleagues! as a human rights activist, the liberation struggle in southern africa has been a guiding light. robert mugabe went from freedom hero to tyrant, but the resistance lives on in zimbabwe. pastor evan mawarire was threatened with death by the dictatorship's torpedoes and fled to the united states. yet, he had the courage to come back and challenge this tyrant. mawarire was arrested as soon as he landed in harare. mugabe's power base is also being challenged from within. liberation war veterans, longtime allies of the president, boycotted mugabe's speech this summer in protest against the dictatorship, and evan mawarire is now a free man. now the regime's bloody henchmen must be brought to justice, and the charges against mawarire must be dropped. friends, let us show today that the democratic forces of zimbabwe also have our support in the eu. we continue to believe in change.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this resolution. the recent arrest of pastor mawarire is, unfortunately, another case that raises important concerns about what is going on in zimbabwe. the eu, through its delegation in zimbabwe, has been following the case closely. together with representatives from the member states, we attended pastor mawarire’s high court bail application hearing on 8 february. we welcome the positive ruling at the high court to grant bail, and we take careful note of the judge’s remarks about the weakness of the state’s case. the case has been raised with the government at senior level, and we will continue to follow developments closely. the right of pastor mawarire to express his views and opinions in a peaceful manner is a fundamental freedom enshrined in zimbabwe’s own constitution. human rights defenders, organisations and activists are playing a critical role in the promotion of human rights in zimbabwe. it is essential that they are free to operate in an environment that protects fundamental human rights and freedoms, as set out in zimbabwe’s constitution. they deserve recognition and credit for their significant and persistent contribution. the eu is committed to fighting discrimination, to preserving the rights of individuals to enjoy the full range of human rights in zimbabwe, and we are determined to continue supporting the work of civil society organisations and protecting human rights activists. zimbabwe is at a critical juncture, as a number of you have said. continued political and economic reforms are essential to restore growth and achieve inclusive and sustainable development. respect for the rule of law, human rights and the consolidation of democracy are also essential. the electoral commission should engage with all parties to agree on an electoral framework for the 2018 elections. our overall objective remains to re-engage fully with a stable and democratic zimbabwe. i would like to recall the eu’s continuing commitment to the people of zimbabwe and emphasise that the eu remains amongst the most important donors to that country.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. war and dictatorship are the worst enemies of human rights. both have made horrendous comebacks in europe. perhaps the biggest threat today is vladimir putin. for the first time since the second world war, he has forcibly rearranged the borders of europe. beyond these new frontiers, he has put human rights on the line. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. he is a former member of the security council of the russian federation. hundreds are being held hostage in occupied eastern ukraine. when an independent country in europe is attacked by force, it is an attack on all of us. when human rights are trampled on, all democrats must stand up. let us raise our voices today, colleagues, so that we can be heard all the way to the kremlin.
blue-card question. – the association agreement between the eu and ukraine has been decided by the sovereign parliament of ukraine several times and voted through by several governments of ukraine. as with many other association agreements with our neighbours, this was not imposed by the european union. my question is: does my colleague think it is up to russia to decide with whom a sovereign nation like ukraine should trade, have agreements, or have relations? is it for russia to decide how its neighbouring countries should conduct relations with the rest of europe and the world?
mr president, honourable ukrainian friends, i very much welcome that the european parliament is today strongly condemning russia’s occupation of crimea and its disastrous consequences for ordinary citizens, three years after the illegal annexation of the peninsula. crimea is just a few hours away by plane and still it has become a human rights black hole. neither the council of europe nor the united nations have access to the peninsula and they cannot monitor the situation there. discriminatory policies are imposed on crimean tatars, fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of speech and association, are constantly violated, and europe is looking away. it is shameful, and it is also shameful to listen to our colleagues who support the russian oppression. the eu must make it perfectly clear to russia that the occupation of crimea will never be accepted or recognised, that the respect of human rights in crimea is not on the table for negotiation.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. colleagues, president duterte of the philippines has emerged as a leading human rights offender. drug users are publicly humiliated. extrajudicial executions have become commonplace, and it is not just criminals who are being removed from the scene. recently, environmental activist mia mascariñas-green was murdered in her car in front of her three children. duterte's war on drugs is in fact a war on democracy, and now he has turned his weapons against a member of the opposition. senator leila m. de lima has, as one of the few politicians in the philippines, dared to stand up to duterte's brutality. now she's being charged with drug offenses herself. the evidence is obviously fabricated. mr. duterte, this madness must end. i would like to call for the immediate release of senator leila m. de lima.
mr president, montenegro is leading among the western balkan countries in its integration into the european union and nato. however, this progress and the process of integration is seriously hampered by russia. we saw russian interference in domestic politics during the last election. we've seen inappropriate support for the opposition during the protests, and it's been claimed that russia has ties to the people who tried to assassinate the leadership of montenegro. the european union must send a clear message that russia's political games in the western balkans are intolerable. russia's influence and manipulation must be stopped. we can't be passive bystanders to this because we're going to pay a much higher price when it's too late to fix it. the openness of this european union to new balkan members and support for this process is the best way to calm the balkans and to move russia away from the balkans.
author. – mr president, on 7 december 2016 the commission adopted a communication on a european solidarity corps. by voluntarily joining the european solidarity corps, these young people will be able to develop their skills and get not only work but also invaluable human experience. that is how it was spelled out by mr juncker. in this communication the commission states that the european solidarity corps will bring together two complementary strands: volunteering and occupational. the occupational strand touches upon subjects that fall directly within the committee on employment and social affairs’ areas of competence, and this committee wishes to put a couple of questions to the commission. how does it intend to differentiate between volunteering – which can provide very valuable experience but is unpaid – and traineeships or apprenticeships, which should be paid? how does it intend to ensure that volunteering is not misused to replace regular paid forms of employment? how will it guarantee that the initiative reaches out to all young people, in particular those in more vulnerable situations? how will it guarantee that the traineeships and apprenticeships offered under this scheme are of a good quality? how will formal and informal skills be recognised? how will it rely on, reinforce and complement existing initiatives such as erasmus+ and the youth guarantees that have already been mentioned? which share of the employment and social innovation programme and the youth employment initiative and what additional funding does it envisage to allocate for the essc? existing funds are already much needed given the social and employment situation in europe. does it consider resorting to other funds and programmes such as, for example, the esf? how does it intend to avoid the duplication or replacement of existing programmes and tools such as erasmus+, the european voluntary service and the european youth guarantee? we also have concerns that this is replicating already existing grassroots initiatives. the commission has to consider already existing initiatives and respect their autonomous organisation. it is not the role of civil society to act as cheerleaders for the european union or any governmental body. strong, independent grassroots organisations are at the heart of european values. finally, we would like an explanation of how it is possible that the initiative is already running, recruiting young people without the legal instrument. these questions i would like to have answered.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this short discussion. i have taken note of your concerns and observations. i think that there is a general consensus and nobody would put it into question that it is one of the fundamental rights of the members of the european parliament to question the european commission, and it is one of the obligations of the european commission and the members of the european commission to answer those questions. it is an non-waivable right, no hesitation and no question in that respect. let me refer to one issue raised in your interventions and that is the vagueness of the replies of the european commission. i think there are two reasons for that. one is a political reason, and i agree with my fellow countryman mr szanyi that the european commission is a political body – and this is the self-definition of the european commission, that it is a political commission – so if it is a political commission it needs to give political answers. i agree, but let us not mix up political answers with party political answers or partisan answers, because the european commission is not only a political body, but it is a political body of four political groups, representatives of four political groups and 28 member states, or commissioners sent from 28 member states. we cannot afford to be party political or partisan. we give political answers but they are not party political answers. the second reason for the so-called vagueness might be the limits of the competences of the european commission. sometimes our answers go beyond the real competences of the european commission. so we must be vague because it is not in our competence to answer concretely those questions. if there are other examples of vagueness, i really apologise for that. we would like to improve the quality of the replies and i hope that we can improve the close relations between the two institutions and the meeting of the deputy secretaries-general will help in improving this cooperation.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. the anti-trafficking in persons directive adopted in 2011 was an important step in the fight against trafficking in human beings. the directive took a broad approach to trafficking in human beings, including measures to prevent it, define the crime of trafficking in human beings, impose penalties on traffickers and combat demand. in addition to the legislation, an eu strategy was adopted in 2012. but despite all the measures, human trafficking continues. hundreds of thousands of people in europe are forced to work in slavelike conditions. about three quarters of trafficked persons are victims of sex slavery. human trafficking remains one of the most profitable and least risky crimes to be committed. i am therefore pleased that we have the opportunity today to put questions to the commission on the fight against trafficking in human beings. today, two things are making me anxious and upset. the first is that the commission has not yet put forward a new strategy against trafficking in human beings. the second thing that upsets me is the lack of action by the member states to combat demand. article 18 (4) of the directive gives member states the option of criminalising the exploitation of victims of trafficking in human beings. only ten member states have chosen to do so and only two member states have reported on the alternative measures taken to combat demand. this is regrettable and totally contrary to the commitment of the directive. i would therefore like to put the following questions to the commission. 1: the when will there be a new strategy? what other measures are planned on the basis of the two implementation reports on the trafficking in human beings directive? will the commission put forward new legislation and if not, why?
author. – madam president, trafficking in human beings is a slavery of our time. figures are shocking and behind every story there is a human tragedy. most victims are women and girls, exploited for prostitution in europe and more and more are migrants and more and more are abused online. trafficking is serious organised crime and should be prosecuted as such. it is a huge business industry with high profit and low risk. it is time to stop impunity and to ensure convictions. there should be no hiding places for traffickers in europe and neighbouring countries. from the urals through the balkans, to the black sea, from niger through the desert and the mediterranean, actors are cross-border and sophisticated. concerted action with third countries is necessary. we should step up our european response on all fronts. more police and judicial cooperation, including with europol and eurojust, better sharing of information, an operational role for the asylum support office and frontex, tracking the money, confiscating the assets of both traffickers and agents through the legal chain such as transport and accommodation providers. member states should also reduce demand and criminalise the users of sex services. i welcome that member states have finally transposed the directive but, as colleagues have said, much more needs to be done to implement it properly, in particular training of officials, access to health care, and sexual productive rights. victims should receive unconditional assistance and psychological support. madam president, many unaccompanied minors that disappear in europe are exposed to trafficking and abuse. members have to do more for missing children and ensure that they enter the protection system. i do fully support the anti-trafficking coordinator and in particular her call to focus more on child victims. commissioner, i urge you to present this year the new strategy on anti-trafficking, taking into account, and i finish on this madam president, parliament’s recommendation including a gender perspective and external direction, and the european people’s party will continue to support you, and be committed to zero tolerance against trafficking.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. to be reduced to a commodity is among the most abhorrent things a human being can suffer. in the eu, 61% of identified trafficking victims come from an eu country. ninety-six percent of them are girls and women who are sexually exploited. in the last year, we have also received information from europol on thousands of unaccompanied refugee children who have disappeared without a trace. instead of finding protection and new opportunities, they have been enslaved by unscrupulous traffickers, sexually exploited, or worked in slavelike conditions. in the eu. this is disgusting. now we have to make sure that we have a new future strategy that is effective and actually works in the real world. crossborder crime must be fought across borders. and we must adopt this new revised strategy based precisely on the exchange of information between countries. that's got to be the point. and remember: human beings are never a commodity and it is our responsibility to break this.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr vučić on his election as the new serbian president. at the same time, i would like to point out that the electoral campaign has now ended and it is time to leave nationalism aside. the eu hopes to have a partner in president vučić. we expect serbia to remain a stable and trustworthy partner in enlargement talks and contribute to regional stability with an eu—oriented government. the eu expects the implementation of reforms, improvement of the socioeconomic status of the country and the establishment of an honest dialogue with kosovo. serbia should stay on the eu path and not fall back into the trap of nationalism and interference in the internal matters of neighbouring countries. i wish president vučić every good luck with the hope that we will see the best of serbia in years to come.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it has been a very intensive year and i would like to give credit to the chairman, the rapporteur and my colleagues in the committee. i think it has been the most work-intensive committee this year; a tribute to the time and commitment you have put into the matter. there's also been a lot of things that have come up that have been important to us. it seems that the european automobile industry has standards and opportunities to act in ways that are not possible for other industries. i know what it looks like every time a scandal is exposed in the production of clothing in some clothing company, what it looks like when food producers are exposed in cheating and scandals. there is a lot of fighting, new controls, new legislation and very clear action. there's been fraud here that we've been aware of directly and indirectly for a very, very long time. in addition, there has been a failure, both on the part of the member states and the commission, to take any real action. this is what makes this industry very, very unique, and this is where we're going to have to do even more in the future. i also think it is very good that we have had a clarification. it is also true that during the committee's work new scandals were uncovered in other areas than perhaps the one which primarily led us to set up this committee of inquiry. mark after mark with different methods of cheating. so it is something that we have to say permeates industry and where the member states and the controls are not working. it also shows very clearly that the legislation we often adopt at european level is too seldom properly implemented and controlled, and that there are too many bad customs and penalties if they are broken. here we have a core task for any legislation we pass in this house: to ensure that it is actually complied with and that it has consequences. another point raised by european consumers is the great difference between the fact that in the usa you can get large compensations for buying a product that does not meet the promised criteria, whereas in europe this is not possible. it's based on the fact that our legal system doesn't allow it today, and that's where we have more work to do.
madam president, the role of women in society has changed considerably across the eu. today women are making important contributions to the eu agriculture sector. however, this contribution has always been underestimated and that is still the case. the huge inequalities that still exist between men and women cannot be excused. today, only 29% of farms in europe are run by women. the lack of ownership and control over land affects women negatively in terms of economic dependence. women farmers want nothing more than appropriate representation. that is why it is important to support equal opportunities, better access to education, vocational training and new skills to develop entrepreneurial initiatives. i welcome this report, which sends a strong signal to aim for gender equality. women have huge potential to make agriculture a more dynamic, innovative and more profitable sector if they receive proper support.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the fact that my colleagues valenciano and díaz de mera have taken a positive approach to this report. but i am very concerned about the rather one-sided way in which the council and the commission choose to mobilise foreign policy instruments, aid instruments, trade policy and even military means, all to shut people on the run out. it's not sustainable -- it's not sustainable morally, and it's not sustainable politically. the use of military operations and shameful deals with third countries such as turkey as border guards is a dead end. we will not make such shameful deals, and, as said earlier, we will not make deals with libya, libyan militia, either. i want to see a europe that develops its capacity to receive refugees. we're going to expand aid, as we've said here before, with a focus on poverty reduction, gender equality, education and health. we shall be an actor cooperating with the un for development and for the future, as the rapporteurs have said. and last but not least, we're going to create legal pathways, something that i'm working on in the context of resettlement. it's time to make a u-turn.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today we are discussing a report with two rapporteurs from spain, a country which has been bailed out by the eu on several occasions and a country which has re-equipped its infrastructure with the help of redistributed tax money from sweden and other net contributors to the eu. if we are to discuss the problem of migration in a report, it would be good if it did not contain untruths of the type 'europe would die if there were no migration to europe'. a pragmatic and democratic debate cannot be based on false claims. we in sweden are among others the ones paying for the migrants, and the costs cannot be measured only in direct costs. it is now absolutely necessary for the whole of europe to take a long break from the reception of migrants. for sweden this is absolutely necessary, and the eu cannot force sweden to accept more. we have invested tens of billions of euros in this and paid with increased insecurity for those who remain in sweden and social unrest. we shall see what humanity you have in other countries when the wallets are to be opened and your citizens are to live in insecurity. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) thank you for asking. the report says that we need migration and that we cannot survive, that we are facing a demographic challenge. but that's not the case. one must also look at the problems of this mass migration to europe. we have received so much that sweden is suffering from extreme problems. this whole necessity of migration, it's not true.
madam president, we all know the background to this resolution – 65 million refugees around the world, the dublin convention existing only on paper, one—sided decisions to close borders or to implement limits for immigration, a temporary resettlement agreement for refugees which never took place. the fact that the eu today clings on to countries like turkey and libya is not the result of an ambition to find a sustainable solution in this situation. it is the result of a political failure. it is the result of a lack of responsibility in dealing with one of the major challenges of our time. however, as we all know, there is an alternative – secure external borders, legal roads into the union and a permanent and shared resettlement mechanism. this resolution offers such an alternative, which is why it is so important to support it: we need more, not less cooperation; we need more, not less, solidarity with vulnerable people. we need a political leadership that does not give into populism but stands for values and stands for human dignity.
mr president, let me be very clear. the eu should, of course, work closely together with partners in our neighbourhood in order to manage in the best way possible the challenges posed by migration. this can, however, not be an excuse to try to externalise our borders or to refuse to take our fair share of receiving applicants for international protection. what we now need to make sure is that we establish a well-functioning common european asylum system where each and every country of this union takes its fair share of the responsibility for the people that are seeking international protection in the eu. this should be binding and mandatory for all member states. let us also keep in mind that there is a big difference between building capacity and stimulating development and cooperation with third countries and outsourcing our own responsibilities to these countries. keep in mind that it is in the absence of a functioning system on asylum that we see new border controls imposed by member states, emergency measures of all sorts, and statements such as the one with turkey. if we ensured that we did our job, this would not have been necessary.
mr president, i feel offended on behalf of the citizens of this union, to see one of our colleagues behaving in a completely inappropriate way in this chamber at this moment. i would like to say that this is not a mud-wrestling arena. this is the european parliament and things like this should not be tolerated by you or me and i kindly ask you to turn to our colleague and ask her kindly to behave in this plenary, on behalf of all of us.
mr president, not a long time ago hate speech was a fringe phenomenon: neo-nazis shouting in the streets or other cowards who have a lack of intelligence, common sense and human dignity. it was, of course, still a shocking reminder of the atrocities of nazis, not least to jews, roma and the lgbti community, but a decade ago hate speech was contained. now it has become mainstream. due to social media it can spread without control. hate speakers are now even in power in some countries. therefore i am very encouraged by the eu code of conduct with facebook, microsoft twitter and youtube to counter hate speech online. but we cannot rest. the hate speakers certainly will not. the it companies need to work closely with civil society and with the victims of hate speech and share best practice among themselves. and should the eu code of conduct not work we need to put hard legislation in place. we have a duty to stop the hate in time this time around, and hate speech is not what freedom of expression is.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yesterday thousands of people formed a human chain around the central european university in budapest. this is because the legislation of the orbán government, which now affects this university, is a frontal attack on academic freedom and all critical thinking in hungary. it could not have happened without the advance of hate propaganda, populism and alternative media, which have repeatedly encouraged the possibility of this happening. it was very brave of these people to form this circle, because we know that what is happening in hungary now, in terms of academic freedom, has been preceded by hate speech on social media, alternative facts and a society that has more or less stifled freedom of speech and instead cultivated a culture of silence. the nationalist, totalitarian vision of the orbán government, which previously politicized the rule of law and introduced state censorship, has now gone a step further and is attacking research, education and, above all, academic freedom. what is happening in hungary is an insult to the eu and everything we stand for. and our answer must be simple: the bottom is reached. we must now stand up and defend academic freedom and the values on which this union is founded.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i understand that this increasingly centralised union likes the media to be centralised in a few media houses. the european union is making the same mistake as the american left, namely mixing fake news with news that takes a different perspective. when all the swedish media only reported the positive aspects of the huge migration we had to our country, as well as in some cases pure disinformation, the so-called alternative media emerged, where individual citizens on their own dug out the truth behind the angular news that dominated society. it found, among other things, that news reports about violent crimes often completely omitted the fact that the perpetrator was a migrant or had a foreign background. whereas in the cases where the perpetrator was swedish, this was very clearly stated with name and picture. many of the big media houses in sweden have long had a policy of only showing the benefits they believe migration has, whether or not it can be proven. most of the time, their theses do not hold up to scrutiny by scientists or educated citizens. both the european union and the swedish state support these media houses through grants and loans. already dominant players are given additional support through taxation to pursue agenda-setting journalism instead of objective news reporting. i'm appealing to you. the solution cannot be that we simply give money to the big media houses in some kind of hope that they are right just because they have been around for many years. they're the ones who helped fuel the migration crisis. it was not just merkel and löfven who welcomed the whole world to europe, but also the media campaigns.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to stress that we must have full respect for freedom of expression and freedom of the media, and i would particularly like to stress that we must increase support for public service media. but i also think we need to fight the rise of hatred and threat and discrimination. today we see homophobic, sexist, racist forces rampaging wildly, and they are also supported by forces on the right benches of this parliament. it's a shame, you know? countries in europe even have laws that prohibit positive speech about homosexuality and transsexuals. how is that possible in 2017 in europe? we see open misogyny and we see islamophobia that is not being counteracted. we have refugee camps on fire. a large group of our citizens live in insecurity. discrimination and hatred must be fought. hate against ethnic groups must be extended to include homophobia, transphobia, sexism and all forms of racism.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, i would like to congratulate mia-petra kumpula and all her colleagues, regardless of their political colour. many of us, including alde, would like to say that this was our idea, but it would not have been possible to implement it if the commission had not been part of it and if it had not been the case that all the political groups actually wanted to take these steps. what is also important in this process is to see that the debate that has been going on all along has also affected the market. we can see in sweden how the big telecom operators are already starting to get rid of roaming charges, so that before the legislation is even in place, big things are starting to happen in the european market. this can also be a good foundation for much that we need to continue to do. in one of my first debates in this chamber, they wanted to break google's monopoly. for me, it was so surprising that nobody in this house asked the question why we don't have a european-based google. the answer is quite obvious to me: we have not succeeded in creating a single market where there is competition and where there is sufficient growth potential for digitally based companies and telecommunications companies. several telecommunications companies have been able to make a lot of money by withdrawing roaming charges, but here we have said that it is important that european citizens have the ability to move across borders to work, to move across borders to travel and visit other parts of europe, without coming home and having to spend the whole of next month's salary on paying bills. this, of course, creates new digital opportunities, but the work is not finished. we must ensure that we move forward with the digital agenda for the whole of europe. we're seeing a lot of competition from the united states today. asia is just around the corner. india will not wait for europe to have a single market before acting. this is a first step on the road many important parts are still to be done and we must of course also follow the implementation process to make sure it is serious and good.
blue-card question. – besides the fact that you think it has taken far too long and you think it is bad, but also good, how would you like to say that we could have achieved this without the european union? because without the european union we would not have a union and you would not have a european system. so please explain for us all how things could have been faster without the european union and how this could have been achieved without the european union. i think this is a tremendous occasion to tell us all.
mr president, for me, to achieve a truly european telecom market is one of the most important priorities for the european union, because that is a precondition for a dynamic and vibrant digital economy in the european union – a pre-condition for us to be in the lead regarding 5g regarding all the new services that can revitalise our economies. and in that perspective, this step, with a regulation regarding the pricing between wholesales operators, are of fundamental importance. it will mean that from 15 june we can use the different services via the internet all over europe. it will mean that citizens can travel, but it will mean that we can reach a new level of our digital economy. i think we need now to proceed in order to create truly trans-european networks to ensure that there are no negative effects coming out of this, only positive effects, and that is something we should call on the commission to do: to ensure that we can proceed to a truly european telecom and a truly digital market in the european union.
mr. talman, what are you doing? the abolition of roaming charges has long been a priority. the work spans several mandates and has undoubtedly been a long journey, but we are finally approaching the end point for the phase-out of roaming charges within the eu. tomorrow we will vote on the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the wholesale roaming market. in my view, it is a very good, balanced agreement, which ensures that european consumers will soon be able to enjoy roaming 'like at home'. that said, i really hope that a large and broad majority will support the agreement. the eu is an important tool for strengthening consumer rights. it is a fact that we are about to put the final piece of the puzzle, which makes it possible that roaming charges will soon be a thing of the past. it also shows in concrete terms how we can work together in the eu to achieve positive outcomes that european consumers can actually benefit from. a big thank you to those who have negotiated this.
mr president, we have just heard the infiltration of putin in this european parliament from my colleague in enf. finally, the people of ukraine will be granted visa-free travel. it is about time. it is a concrete step to fulfil the maidan dream. the aspiration of a ukraine closer to europe for the people, by the people. ukraine has fulfilled all the criteria in record time; even more impressive, they made it while under attack by russia, which is waging a proxy war. let us be honest: few countries today pay such a high price for its democratic aspiration. more than 10 000 ukrainians have died defending our shared values of peace, democracy and freedom. more than 1.5 million are displaced, many of whom are children fleeing for their lives. with visa-free travel, finally the eu delivers visible results for the people, showing them that there is progress. visa liberalisation is about people-to-people contacts, facilitating mutual understanding, respect and friendship. now a ukrainian entrepreneur can meet his business partner in the eu without tiring paperwork. tourists, young people, can travel to europe without waiting in line in embassies, and parents can spontaneously go and meet their children living on the other side of the border. this exchange is in our common interest. it has strengthened our partnership and our economy, and the eu should now give the green light and implement the visa-free regime without delay. ukraine has done its part; we have to do ours.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you to the rapporteur for a very good resolution, very good. i, along with other colleagues, was an election observer in december, when the election took place. an election which, in the settlement that existed, was perhaps the most important step: to be able to hold democratic and fair elections. all the election monitors also said that this went well, so now everyone has to respect the election result. an election that took place in the same way as any other democratic election. the parties go to the polls on their platforms. after the election, you get together to see if you can find a majority. and right now there is a majority that could work, appoint the president, appoint the government. but there are forces that work against it. what we need now is a new government based on the election result, and we need to give that government a chance, for the sake of the people of macedonia.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. often, several times per session, we discuss the situation of women and gender equality in this house, tonight on the theme of women's economic self-determination. i am the rapporteur for the forthcoming report of the committee on gender equality on the same subject, and i attended the european parliament delegation to new york and the 61st un commission on women summit earlier in march. the european parliament has recently stepped up its efforts to promote gender equality despite massive opposition, not least in response to recent attempts by the us to restrict women's rights to their own bodies. women's economic self-determination is basically a question of freedom for women. it's about the right to individual economic freedom. for me, economic self-determination is a central issue in the work on gender equality, but there are also other factors that today prevent women from enjoying the same rights as men. the fact that the right to own one's own body, and the right to control it, does not always apply to women is incomprehensible to me. since donald trump reintroduced the global gag rule, it's estimated to have caused an economic deficit of about ten billion dollars, and now most recently the united states pulled back its money from the un population fund, about 32 million dollars. and this trend that we're seeing, not just across the atlantic, is that women are actually going to die. women who do not receive the medical care they need are now victims of the policies being implemented. he also called for the eu to be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus was contained.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i thank you all for your input into this discussion, and for organising it as well. the council, notably the working party on human rights, has not yet the opportunity to carry out its assessment. we will continue, as holders of the presidency, to follow it closely and also keep parliament abreast of the developments there. we have had a very useful debate that also clearly demonstrates the high degree of convergence between the european parliament’s and the council’s views on this matter. it is also clear that we cannot reach sustainable development goals without the active participation of women, and investing in women is the way forward. therefore, the council will work intensely in this direction. once again, i would like to thank you for your debate and the invitation to participate.
author. – madam president, to make a tangible progress in our fight against anti-gypsyism, which is at the root cause of the situation of the roma today, we call for a project team on roma issues to be set up, bringing together commissioners jourová, thyssen, crețu, navracsics, andriukaitis and hahn, to create non-discriminatory and complementary eu funds and programmes. we call for the continuation of the eu-roma framework after 2020, building on the findings and recommendations of the court of auditors, the fra, ngos and watchdog organisations. we call on the commission and the member states to make sure that the projects financed by the eu are inclusive and fight segregation. segregational practices must be clearly described and explicitly excluded from funding. as we concede that most mainstream programmes systematically fail to reach out to young roma, we call on the court of auditors to check the employment and education programmes of the eu. we call for anti-gypsyism to be put in the focus on the national roma strategies, and anti-discrimination indictors to be introduced in the relevant fields. we call on member states to design their country strategies on the basis of consultations with roma representatives and pro-roma ngos, and then involve them in the running, monitoring and evaluation of the projects. we call on the commission to set up a truth and reconciliation commission at eu level and in member states, to set up such commissions at national level, to acknowledge this persecution, exclusion and disownment of the roma throughout the centuries. to document this in an official white paper and to make their history become part of the curriculum in schools. we call on member states to mark 2 august as roma holocaust memorial day. these steps are absolutely necessary to fight successfully against anti-gypsyism.
blue-card question. – madam president, i must say that i am very surprised that, in this important debate, where we talk about integration, opportunities for the roma people and in remembrance of the holocaust, the right honourable gentleman does not, with a single word, address that situation. what he does is take on the majority position of society and blame the roma population of europe. you say, mr aker, that they are flooding your society and you are blaming poverty on the roma people. the roma people have been suffering all through european history but the situation has never been better. it seems like the honourable gentleman is harking back to a situation where we could address and oppress the roma people of europe nationally and it was hidden because we could not address it. today, we have an opportunity to give prosperity to all of the people of europe. please address that in your reply and do not continue to attack the people that are moving across borders.
(blue card) you made it very clear that roma don't belong in your society. i do not understand how you can come in here, with no common sense, no shame, and have this debate in this room, on this issue, unfortunately. my question to you is: did you think it was appropriate when your entire uk colonized more than half the world?
(blue card) you're showing a great deal of lack of intelligence, empathy, human dignity. are you saying that you stand here today and speak of the romans as the cause of the situation we find ourselves in today? you mean you can sit in this chamber, which you absolutely do not want to belong? do you have difficulty integrating yourself into eu values? is that what you're saying?
madam president, i would like to thank you. we're in the middle of this year's roma week, and it might seem strange that we need one. but for a people without a country, without a state, for centuries suffering from discrimination and persecution, it is fortunate that we have at least come to the point where we are paying attention to roma and roma culture around the world for a week. in the green group we have prepared a publication for this year's roma week, in which we analyse the current situation from different perspectives and from different countries and what we can do to combat anti-gypsyism in europe. we can get it. why are roma still so stigmatised, and why do our majority societies accept that a group of people who have been in our countries for many centuries are still treated differently and discriminated against? to understand, we must go back many hundreds of years. we know that as early as the 14th century, roma in certain european countries were enslaved and sold or traded at auctions. slavery as such was not abolished until the 1860's, but it practically persisted for several decades. these delusions, which we have heard about here before, are still deeply rooted in europe, in almost every country. we are taught from childhood to believe that roma themselves choose to be outside our societies, that they do not want to participate, as we heard here just now, in the common activities of society. at the same time, our decision-makers have instituted law after law in country after country against the roma. not only were assimilation laws enacted to banish or imprison them, but laws were also passed that gave anyone, especially men, the right to kill a roma by hanging or by other means. it is time for us, as a majority, to take responsibility for our own actions and change our attitudes. then we can move on.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the path ahead of us is still a long one until we see roma treated like any other eu citizen. the change will not happen overnight, but we must not let them stop us. we have to keep steady on course with our fundamental values. the commission will continue to work closely and to engage in dialogue with all the relevant stakeholders, including the representatives of the roma people and pro-roma civil society organisations. we need to ensure that all actors involved in the fight against anti-gypsyism are supported, including by strengthening financial and policy support to civil society and national authorities. thank you.
a matter of policy. i would like to begin by thanking the colleagues who have taken part in the debate, but i also ask for your support in writing to president tajani to tell him about and demand sanctions against the hate speech and discriminatory debate which was carried on by some members today. this is unacceptable. i thank the president for the way you handled it. i think it was good.
author. – madam president, putin influenced the american election. he crushed opposition at home, silenced dissent. putin had conquered crimea and parts of eastern ukraine. his popularity sky-rocketed. everyone thought he was untouchable. then came march 2017, totally unexpected. they used to call them the putin youth, young russians who had grown up with him in power. they used to say that these youngsters only cared about their iphones, then came march 2017. beware, mr putin. you need to respect your constitution. you need to release your political prisoners, or march 2017 will be another winter month which goes down in russian history.
member of the commission. – mr president, on sunday, 26 march 2017, over 60 000 russians gathered in over 80 cities across russia to protest against corruption. it was the largest anti-governmental demonstration in the last five years. russian citizens took to the streets despite, in many cases, not having received the requested authorisation for demonstrations. still, the protests remained peaceful and non-violent. for this reason we consider the measures taken by the russian authorities to be a disproportionate reaction. the freedoms of expression, association, and peaceful assembly are fundamental rights guaranteed to the russian citizens by the russian constitution. peaceful protesters were detained and sentenced on a large scale. these events raise strong doubts about the state of these fundamental rights in the russian federation. the response by the authorities to peaceful demonstrations was disproportionate and punitive. we were particularly alarmed by the indiscriminate actions of the authorities against young students and school pupils. state authorities have a particular responsibility when dealing with young people and minors, a responsibility to always protect them against any physical and mental trauma. journalists too were arrested while covering the events and subsequently released. any actions against reporters who are simply doing their job represent a violation of freedom of the media, an incursion into the public’s right to know, and a clear breach of russia’s international commitments. overall, evidence shows that these kind of measures against journalists have a negative effect on free speech in the country. opposition leader and founder of the anticorruption foundation, alexei navalny, was also detained and sentenced to prison, alongside many other peaceful demonstrators. we believe that the russian authorities have a responsibility to safeguard the fundamental rights of all their citizens, particularly in view of the presidential elections next year. all political actors in the country have the right to play by the same rules on a level playing field. the european union has made its position very clear with regard to these developments. we issued a statement on the events the same evening. the statement called on the russian federation to abide fully by the international commitments it has undertaken, including in the council of europe and the osce, to uphold the fundamental rights and to release immediately the detained peaceful demonstrators. we also expressed the same concerns during the osce permanent council on 30 march. the european union will continue to raise them, as necessary, with the russian authorities.
author. – mr president, for some time we saw a thaw in lukashenko’s belarus. political prisoners were released, it was easier to protest, and the eu scrapped sanctions and started cooperation. this changed with the new so-called ‘social parasite tax’. anyone who works less than 183 days a year is sentenced to forced labour or fined eur 240. that is two-thirds of the average monthly salary. the law also applies to stay-at-home mothers with children in preschool. protests were met with mass detentions. the authorities must immediately release all peaceful protesters and journalists. if not, the eu must sanction the responsible officials. alexander lukashenko: let belarus thaw again. let us continue on the good path of cooperation, instead of speaking the language of sanctions.
author. – mr president, a 14-year-old girl was brought to the altar to be married to a man twice her age for a dowry, forever. fifty-two percent of girls in bangladesh are married when they are 18 years old, and 18% before their 15th birthday. the new law against child marriages allows for so many exceptions that it will most likely lead to more girls being raped or disfigured in acid attacks. in nearly all cases, these girls will not get an education and will live in isolation, poverty, economic dependence and servitude. these girls are children, not objects for sale in the adults’ marriage market. today, we – as parliament – have the chance to let these girls learn that not all adults in the world have abandoned them. we are concerned about these girls’ future. we, as a parliament, have to act.
mr president, after years of negotiations, after the informal agreement reached between the european parliament and the council in the last days of february this year, today we have all, together, demonstrated our strong commitment to visa-free travel to ukrainian citizens. very soon, ukrainian citizens will be able to travel in the eu for 90 days without having a visa. the full importance of today’s vote cannot be underestimated. by granting ukrainians the freedom to travel through the eu we have demonstrated that the unprecedented reforms undertaken by the ukrainian government are bearing tangible fruit, but above all, we are pointing out that we refuse to follow the path of closeness, nationalism, populism, that so many politicians are suggesting today. today we have embraced openness and we should be proud of it. i now call for the eu member states to implement today’s vote as soon as possible.
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to ask my colleague to explain herself, with facts, when in this house she accuses sweden, and stockholm, of being the capital of rape. deal in facts please. this is an insult to a member of the european union.
mr president, social policies are really important and i wish to congratulate and thank commissioner thyssen for the 20 principles that you have presented. the focus on gender equality, in particular, is very, very welcome, and also the access to the labour market. on the issue of work and life balance, i also think that it is really important that you have recognised the shared responsibility between men and women in childcare. but i do think that legislation and implementation should be at national level. i welcome that you made it clear that subsidiarity is your guiding principle. why? because wages, working time, pensions, parental leave and unemployment benefits are a national competence. why are they a national competence? because family law and labour law are better dealt with nationally. it is not that we do not care. it is that we have to do at european level what is best dealt at european level and it is more effective because we have different systems. so i do hope that the commission will stick to better regulation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in my speech today, i would like to address all those in turkey and the diaspora who voted against the referendum. despite all the difficulties and obstacles, the state of emergency, the imprisonment, the silencing of the media, unequal economic conditions, etc., you still managed to reach almost the end. you were 48.59% of the voters who voted no. you gave a very strong and clear signal to erdoğan that his attempt to dismantle democracy in turkey will not be a walk-on victory. democracy is not dead in turkey not yet. you have shown that, especially young people and people in big cities. the changes won't take effect tomorrow, though. it will take a number of political decisions on the way there and a general election in 2019. we democrats must stand up for each other, and we will stand with you through this difficult time. erdoğan is an elected president in his own right, but he has shown more and more clearly with each passing year that he does not share our vision of democracy or our basic values. we in the eu must be as clear as you have been with him, and that is my message to the commission.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the developments in turkey with the change in the constitution are worrying. nevertheless, developments in europe are worrying, as turkey applied political pressure through certain domestic turkish groups to promote the electoral campaign for this referendum. it follows that it is of the utmost importance that the eu ensures that turkey can accurately account for the amounts of eu assistance to turkey, so that these funds are actually used to help the migrants and refugees in turkey. it is also important that the european countries make it clear to turkey that we can never accept that turkey holds europe hostage at the expense of migrants and refugees or by mobilising citizens of our respective countries.
madam president, i very much share the concerns of my colleagues on the results of the referendum as a clear setback in turkey. society is split and, more than ever, we have to reach out to the millions of turkish people who feel let down and abandoned by the european union. we have to increase, not diminish, dialogue with all levels of society. we should engage with a moderate tone and with less emotion. and, as we continue to condemn torture, mistreatment, the imprisonment of innocent people and journalists and other attacks on free society, it is much too early to jump to conclusions on membership. why should we punish the people of turkey? membership is a long-term process. of course they are not ready now, but it does not mean that they will not be ready in the future. which of those member states of the european union who joined were ready from day one of the accession negotiations? please, let us not undermine the civil society and democratic forces of turkey.
mr president, i would like to make a point of order under rule 11 on an event that took place on 27 april in brussels outside the plenary. it was a demonstration by one of our swedish colleagues, ms marita ulvskog, who showed her solidarity with a palestinian terrorist, marwan barghouti. this is a man who has been convicted of three terrorist attacks in which five people were murdered, including a mother of two children, and also of attempted murder, membership of a terrorist organisation and conspiring to commit a crime. he was acquitted of 33 other murders with which he had been charged through lack of evidence. in this house we cannot accept shows of solidarity with convicted terrorists. i demand that you, mr tajani, as the president of the european parliament, take your responsibility seriously and look into this matter.
author. – mr president, i would like to thank mrs thyssen for being here. the european qualifications framework (eqf) is a european-wide qualifications framework, which joins the qualifications of different eu member states together. in a way it is a translation of different national qualifications which makes qualifications in different eu countries easier to understand. as such, the eqf is of key importance for well—functioning european integration and mobility. according to the commission, the upcoming review of the eqf will make it even easier to compare qualifications across countries. it will help learners, workers and employers to better understand what a job applicant knows and is capable of doing. the revised eqf is also supposed to facilitate the comparison and understanding of the qualifications of third country nationals. these are important and admirable goals. nonetheless, on the revision of the eqf, parliament has adopted an oral question. the question – or really the questions – reads as follows: qualifications differ across the european union and that makes it difficult to assess the knowledge and capabilities of workers and learners. in 2008, parliament and the council adopted a recommendation on the establishment of a european qualifications framework for lifelong learning with the aim of improving the transparency, comparability and transferability of qualifications in europe. the eqf’s objectives have not yet been fully achieved. therefore, as part of its new skills agenda, the commission is proposing to revise the system through a new council recommendation. question 1: how will the proposed recommendation facilitate equal opportunities in the knowledge—based society and a better permeability between the education and training system? how will it help to match the supply and demand of skills in the labour market? question 2: why would the revised eqf work better? why did the commission deem a revision necessary, despite the current framework being only partially implemented and member states’ calls to focus on this? question 3: how is the framework contributing to the swift validation of informal and non—informal learning? how is the new relationship between ects and ecvet expected to work? question 4: how will the commission support a consistent implementation of the eqf across member states, its use and involvement by all the relevant stakeholders, as well as its better visibility? question 5: by using the eqf as a meta—framework, how will the commission ensure that the specific features of national training and education systems can be recognised and understood in the other member states? question 6: the growing migration flows to and from the eu highlight the need for a better understanding of qualifications awarded outside the eu and of their recognition in order to help migrants and refugees integrate into eu labour markets. how does the commission intend to support the development and application of mechanisms to enable the comparison and recognition of third countries’ qualifications? in the resolution by the committee on employment and social affairs that will be voted by parliament on wednesday, it is also highlighted that relevant stakeholders – such as public employment services, social partners, education and training providers and civil society – should be further involved and closely cooperate in the creation, implementation, promotion and monitoring of the eqf, at eu level and also at national level, in order to ensure its broader support. we have also highlighted the importance of member state commitment and involvement. so far only the netherlands and sweden have specific procedures put in place within their plans for the inclusion of non-formal qualifications. no member state has specific procedures for informal learning within their national qualifications frames. this is an unnecessary barrier to the labour market. we should always respect national competences and guaranteeing that the distinctive traits of the education systems of the member states are safeguarded but, at the same time, many member states are still in the early stages of implementing their national qualification systems. this is too slow if qualifications are to be comparable across europe. we have to see improvement here if a fully functional eqf is to be achieved. we also need to make sure that employers know how to use the system so that it can truly be the tool that we all want it to be. improving the eqf is key to achieving our common goals, namely to see that people are not jobless and do not end up in a desperate situation with high unemployment rates. commissioner, we look forward to hearing your answers to all these questions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the rapporteur, mrs borzan. the food chain doesn't go from the store to the fridge, but from the field or the deep sea right up to the garbage heap. we're throwing away a lot of food. if we're going to cope with climate change and the world's population growth, we need to be more resource efficient in all areas. the fight against food waste must therefore be a high priority for the eu. food waste must be reduced and this week we are voting that it is a first step to reduce waste by 30% in eight years, and then by 50% in thirteen years. we must continue the hard work towards healthier and more environmentally friendly farming, animal husbandry and fishing. we must avoid transporting food back and forth across the globe. the european commission must act now. why does the commission not take the initiative to legislate? all countries of the world have signed up to sustainable development goal 12.3 to reduce global food waste. that is why i cannot understand why this responsibility is not being taken on at eu level. we need to do a better job of teaching our children about the importance of not throwing food away, and we need to look at the labelling of products is it safe to eat food after the 'best before' date? we could also use the tax tool to make it profitable to give away food that is not being used. anything to keep good food from going to the garbage. as unsustainable as it is to produce food that is thrown directly into the garbage, as unsustainable is to fish up everything that moves, clean out the little you want and then throw the rest away. it's time for more fish in the sea, more food in the stomach, and less food in the garbage. thank you so much!
madam president, first i would like to thank rapporteur ulrike lunacek for her kosovo report, the debate on which has, unfortunately, been postponed. it is true that kosovo has made some progress but there is still room for improvement, for example to ensure the security of journalists, as we can conclude from the recent attacks on journalist arbana xharra. however, kosovo should not remain the only western balkan country that does not enjoy visa-free travel. the citizens of kosovo, especially young people, deserve the freedom to move freely. the border demarcation with montenegro should not be used for political fights, new elections or blame games, as it has been used already, because the next opposition can repeat the game and then there is no end to it. the kosovo parliament must finalise this question, preferably before the elections, and then it will be up to the eu to keep its promise and grant visa-free travel to the citizens of kosovo.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you so much. thank you. in the fall of 2015, a handful of countries in europe took in a huge number of refugees in a very short period of time. and reception systems collapsed, borders were closed, solidarity between member states was completely absent, and the whole eu structure began to shake. i live in two countries: sweden and spain. two countries with diametrically opposed views on refugee reception. in sweden, we took in 163,000 refugees in 2015, against an estimated 80,000. we did not have to accept the full quota of redistribution that was decided, because we had already accepted so many. but in spain, we have already heard what is happening there, it is not received by so many. but at the same time we also know that the autonomous regions - several of them have prepared themselves well - have been saying for a long time that they want to take in refugees, but the spanish government says no. we can't have it like this. that the regions want it and the governments say no. we have to get the spanish government to listen to us!
madam president, i would like to thank you. redistribution, shared responsibility and solidarity - that sounds beautiful. but like almost everything in this building, it's built on dreams and hopes that will never come true. whatever the future relocation solution is - because you want to make all the countries in europe multicultural - it will fail. sweden has had a huge migration for many years, and we are slowly but surely learning the lesson. each relocation process will take many years, considering that people stay, and deviate after being rejected in an already long process. the rejection itself will certainly be appealed and contested. the tens of thousands who, through fraudulent behaviour, will be staying illegally in our countries are called by you "undocumented". some will commit acts of terrorism like those that took place in sweden in april. some of them are committing assault and violent crimes, and basically all of them will be working undercover. what do they have to lose? they're already living in violation of the law. if you cannot relocate more than 18,000 in two years, what are you going to do about the eight to nine million people who are expected to come out of libya in the near future?
mr president, one bag out of four is thrown away in europe. this is economically, environmentally and morally unacceptable. back in 2011, when we did the report in this parliament, i started a campaign in sweden called basta to food waste, a grassroots movement to get people to change their lifestyle without reducing their living standards. therefore i very much welcome our vote today in favour of substantially reducing food waste, continuing to keep the issue high on our agenda and raising awareness. we have voted to have a common definition and common methodology to measure food waste, and that will also help us to exchange good practices. member states must facilitate food donations. there are still tax rules and legal requirements that make it easier for retailers and restaurants to throw away edible food rather than reusing it or giving it to those in need. innovative solutions and shared economic co-cooking should also be encouraged and, most importantly, the difference between ‘best before’ and ‘use by’ dates has to be made clear to consumers.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you so much. thank you. in my hometown there are many kurds, and they have given me information about their reality during all the years of the conflict. that information has been difficult to obtain through the commission or the council. they've given it to me from day one of the conflict to today. how they tried to stay out of the conflict in the first place. how they tried to help the internally displaced people who were pouring into the country. how the relief shipments didn't get through. that they were not allowed to represent themselves in the peace negotiations. that in the midst of all the difficulties, they built a form of democratically governed autonomy, where all groups are included. how they were forced into the war against daesh. how they have been opposed by turkey, which is also bombing them. more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more i wonder why we never talk about what is happening in rojava when we discuss syria here. we cannot continue to refer only to the fact that the rojava government was once considered to be part of the pkk - was part of the pkk. but we can't refer to it today. we have a whole new reality that we have to deal with. thank you, thank you!
mr president, a crucial moment in the syrian war is approaching. the so-called capital of isis is about to fall, or rather the city of raqqa is about to be liberated by forces supported by the international coalition. these troops, the syrian democratic forces (sdf), have proved to be those effective feet on the ground that western leaders hoped for. despite turkish condemnation, the united states last week decided to directly support the kurdish part of sdf. the arab part of the sdf has already received support, so the us decision should be seen as a calculated move to strengthen those in syria who have proved to be reliable allies. sdf is the armed forces of a multi-ethnic region that is trying to implement democracy. the ambition is to include all groups in the decision-making. because of this, i encourage the commission to study the developments of the federation of northern syria (rojava). i also encourage the commission to work for an end to the blockade of the region. let humanitarian aid in and give people a fair chance to continue their path towards democracy.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as already mentioned, conflict, persecution and discrimination have driven thousands of christians, but also other religious minorities, from their homes, and many have been forced to seek protection in the eu. although christians have lived in the middle east for over 2,000 years, they now make up only three to four percent of the region's population. that's down from 20 percent a century ago. today, about 120,000 people from the assyrian/syrian/chaldean ethno-christian group originating from turkey, syria, iraq and lebanon live in sweden. many arrived in the 1970's, but a large number have arrived recently. but as the diasporas in europe grow, the continued existence of christians in the middle east is seriously threatened. but the wars in the immediate area will one day, after all, come to an end, and then we must be prepared to provide support for reconstruction and the opportunity for all those who wish to return to their homes to do so. but for this to be possible, all religious and ethnic minority groups must have both the right and the opportunity to live in their historical and traditional homelands in dignity, equality and security, and to enjoy their democratic, human and political rights. mrs. mogherini has already told you all about what we do, and it's very good. but we can also make a major contribution to promoting political dialogue. mostly perhaps by recognising the many ethnic and religious groups that originate from and live in the area, but also by allowing them to have a voice in political negotiations and discussions about the future and reconstruction of their homelands. thank you, thank you!
madam president, the terrorist attacks against the coptic community in egypt are part of an attempted genocide. in the words of isis stated a few weeks ago, christians and their holy sites are legitimate targets in a war against infidels and tyrants. if this total contempt for human dignity does not end the discussion about whether the christians can live under jihadi salafists as long as they pay a penalty tax, i do not know if anything will, because the threat against christians in egypt is fully in line with the barbaric acts of isis in other parts of the middle east. last february, a majority of this parliament passed a resolution that defines the persecution of christians in iraq and syria as genocide. this is, of course, important, but in view of the constant threats against christians, it is imperative that further steps are taken. the commission must act for a legally-binding genocide recognition in the un security council. efforts for legal action against the perpetrators must be intensified. respect for freedom of religion must be a top priority. middle east governments – terrorist groups alike – should always know: violation of the universal right to believe and worship will be punished. justice will prevail.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, there is no doubt that we have had a very useful exchange, and i thank all the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate, i can conclude that we all share a common interest in using eu diplomatic power and eu instruments to their full potential in support of the somali refugee crisis. we will continue to make the best use of all the instruments available to us in humanitarian relief, stabilisation and development assistance, as well as political dialogue with specific support to human rights and democracy. personally, as commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management, i must highlight once again the importance of adhering to international law and norms with regard to returns. they must be voluntary, dignified and sustainable. for me it is quite important to be very focused on these three preconditions – voluntary, dignified and sustainable. the vast majority of the crises in africa are man-made and entirely avoidable. the extreme climate conditions exacerbate the effects of chronic conflict and instability. uganda and some other countries in the region which have shown openness towards hundreds of thousands of refugees from south sudan and the drc, among others, are to be commended. i am intending to attend, as commissioner, the solidarity conference to be convened in uganda next month under the auspices of the secretary—general, antonio guterres. i am going there to express the eu’s support and solidarity but, most importantly, to discuss and push for efforts to address the root causes of all those crises – not only the symptoms, because for me it is quite important to focus on the root causes. otherwise it is quite difficult to find solutions because, if we deal only with the symptoms, unfortunately the situation there continues as business as usual. this is totally unacceptable, especially for vulnerable people. thank you very much for your attention and for this very good debate, focusing on the dadaab refugee camp.
author. – mr president, since february we have been receiving incredible and terrible reports from the russian province chechnya. the reports of the horrible acts towards gay men make devastating reading. government officials claim there are no homosexuals in chechnya. but at the same time they round up gay men, real or perceived, and torture them into giving up the names of gay friends or lovers. families are forced to pay large amounts to get them free – money that is said to ‘trickle up’ in the police and government hierarchy. the government’s anti-gay campaign cuts into the heart of families. i have received reports about honour killings: families have murdered their own children in shame of their being gay. this is what happens when politicians act as if human rights were only for a few – when they dehumanise whole groups of people. right now, the european union is the global stronghold protecting the idea of equality of human rights for all. this demands of us the special duty to protect lgbti persons, and creates a need for humanitarian protection visas. our question to the european external action service is about how they can ensure implementation of our lgbti guidelines. last thursday, five gay activists were detained in moscow when they wanted to deliver a petition demanding an investigation into the ongoing crimes in chechnya. more than two million people have signed it, more people than live in chechnya. today we must stand with those two million. we must stand with the lgbti communities of the world and, right now and most pressingly, with the lgbti people in chechnya and russia. (applause)
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you so much. thank you. many of us, i think, had a hard time accepting the reports of threats and violence, torture and even murder, by gay men in chechnya. such extreme persecution, it's just hard to take in. all of us lgbtq people have, of course, experienced homophobia, but such an extreme form of violence as we have seen in these reports, it is fortunately rare. but homophobia kills, and it kills here in europe too. it killed everyone at that gay club in orlando. and we know that homotransphobia oppresses young people and adults in our society. the violence and persecution of gay people in chechnya is the ultimate consequence of what all this homophobia can result in extreme and deadly violence. when faced with it, we all have to act. we therefore call for action by the european union, action by the member states, action by the council of europe, action by independent experts who must have access to and investigate exactly what has happened and bring those responsible to justice. nothing else is good enough. what hurts so much is that it is precisely the family and the police, where one should be safe in their family and in the relationship with the police that have been exposed and have been involved in persecuting and harming, and even killing, homosexual men. homophobia -- it's so unusual, it's so patriarchal, it's such an unusual attitude to the nation, to the people, to gender, to love, to women, to men and to gender identities. we have to get rid of it. homophobia is deeply rooted, not only in chechnya, but also in us. we have everything to do, we have everything to gain to build more open societies more dignified societies that stand up for the human rights of all. i expect nothing less.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, no one should be discriminated against or attacked for who they love. this principle has become an integral part of our concept of equality, human rights and fundamental freedoms. this is obviously a european value and we believe it should be a universal value. just to remind you, in 2013 the european union adopted guidelines to promote and protect the enjoyment of full human rights by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) persons. the eu’s diplomatic efforts in this area revolve around four priorities: first, eliminating discriminatory laws and policies and ensuring decriminalisation, including the death penalty; second, promoting equality and non—discrimination at work, in healthcare and education; third, combating state or individual violence against lgbti persons; and fourth, supporting and protecting human rights defenders. depending on the situation, the european union acts on the issue through quiet diplomacy, public statements and by raising lgbti rights in the political and human rights dialogues with third countries. the european union also provides support to civil society via the european instrument for democracy and human rights. today, as the authors have already said, we are here to discuss some very serious allegations of crimes against gay men in chechnya. the persecution of gay men, leading to kidnappings, torture and killings is the latest amongst some very worrying developments in chechnya. we have seen the chechen authorities implicitly justifying the violence and the russian federal authorities downplaying it, dismissing the reports as exaggerations and fake news. unfortunately, so far the russian authorities have taken no effective action to stop the violence and protect the victims. the european union, with its member states, other like-minded countries and many international human rights organisations, has condemned the brutal campaign against lgbti individuals and called for a full investigation into these events. just yesterday the eu foreign ministers discussed the situation in the foreign affairs council to evaluate the most effective way to help the victims of the alleged abuse. high representative federica mogherini also raised our serious concerns on this issue directly with minister lavrov when she saw him in moscow on 24 april. she stressed the need to put an immediate stop to the crackdown against gay men in chechnya and to investigate these horrific reports. unfortunately, minister lavrov’s response – later also repeated in the press conference – was that the russian authorities so far had no proof that the alleged persecutions had actually happened. while in moscow, the high representative also had the opportunity to discuss the issue with civil society representatives and journalists. it is indeed alarming that the journalists who uncovered the violence have in turn become the target of direct threats from the leadership in chechnya and have been forced to flee chechnya. this is, unfortunately, the situation on the ground. we have asked eu ambassadors in moscow to do their utmost to help the men who have been a target, particularly those who currently still fear for their own safety and security. some member states are willing to help. whatever they do will be done quietly and without fanfare in order to protect the victims. in any case, we will continue to call on the international authorities for an effective and thorough investigation into the reports of abductions and killing of gay men in chechnya. this is indispensable so that anyone found guilty of complicity in such crimes is brought to justice. this is our strong conviction.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i really want to join my colleagues in sharing the outrage for the real emergency that we are witnessing with – you said it, ulrike – hundreds of men that have been arrested and detained in chechnya just because they are perceived to be gay, and tortured to disclose their alleged gay friends. the systematic witch-hunt of human beings just because of their sexual orientation goes beyond discrimination: it is persecution, it is terrifying and unacceptable, and we cannot be silent and turn our eyes. in the eu we should stand united and act together, and i welcome that our president has immediately taken action and a firm stand against those crimes, and i support further action by the european commission. all member states should call for the immediate release of those that are still detained illegally and to assist the victims. the russian federation should openly denounce those crimes and thoroughly investigate them in respect of international law. there must be zero-tolerance against impunity, and all perpetrators should be brought to justice. the eu should condemn any intimidation towards human rights defenders who reported the violence against lgbti in russia. as a member of the united nations and the council of europe, russia should respect that all human beings are equal and no one has the right to persecute an individual or a group just because they are different or are perceived to be different. in our times, hate, homophobia, violence, discrimination, can never be justified in the name of religious values. we have to continue – mr president, i will conclude – to join forces to build a culture of tolerance, and i have co-signed this resolution wholeheartedly.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for a clear statement which is very much in line with european values. i also want to thank my colleagues in here for a very clear marking. it is extremely important that we can produce such a broad and strong resolution when we are about to vote on it, to show russia and chechnya that we do not accept this behaviour. as mrs corazza bildt has just said, we must ensure that those who are being held in detention are released as soon as possible. the people who have been expelled from chechnya must be given the opportunity to return to their families. the call that has gone through chechnya to purge chechnya of homosexuals before ramadan begins must be reversed. it has been asked to either kill its own sons or it will make sure to do so within the framework of chechnya. at the same time, we have to remember that this is connected to the policy that putin has been pursuing towards lgbtq people for a very, very long time. now he's turning chechnya into a laboratory for the testing of human rights. we must make sure that this is as clearly marked as possible. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. for the past two months we have witnessed horrific crimes against gay men in the increasingly islamist chechnya. last week, a 17-year-old boy was thrown from a balcony to his death after his family discovered he was gay. these honour killings, mr president, are often carried out at the direct request of the authorities, and what we are witnessing in chechnya is a systematic cleansing of people on the basis of sexual orientation, which is totally contrary to fundamental humanist principles. now we in this union of europe must stand up and be a haven for these vulnerable people. together in the eu we must put pressure on putin to act against the chechen regime's appalling calls for honour killings. because that's what this is about. we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to the terrible crimes that are taking place in our immediate vicinity. we own the issue, and we need to take responsibility now.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. the transport sector is in a very vulnerable position and the eu must act. we can't keep doing this. you have lost all faith in the transport industry in those countries which try to enforce sensible rules and conditions. we must give national police authorities the tools to act. we need to give them an information database where the national police can check whether it's legal transport or not. there must be smart tachographs to comply with driving time and cabotage rules. but the problem with cabotage rules is that neither the current rules nor any new rules - such as having four days instead of seven days and three transports - solve the problem. you can still cross the border and change trailers. it is not acceptable that some countries which ignore the rules and have exploited drivers for slave wages should be allowed to compete with countries which pay decent wages and have modern, environmentally friendly vehicles. that cannot be the spirit of the european union. thank you, thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i was rapporteur on the transport committee for our report on social dumping last year, we came up with some things that were important that the commission now has. one is the cabotage rules. they said they're going to be easy to follow, and they're going to be easy to control. we cannot continue as we are today, where unscrupulous, unscrupulous companies break the rules and regulations without consequence. these shady companies exploit people to work for low wages and dump prices. in a functioning market, fair competition must prevail. if not everyone who drives in sweden, for example, follows the labour market rules and the collective agreements in force in terms of wages, then prices are dumped and serious companies are eliminated. this has to stop. we also called for a review of the combined nomenclature directive, since this directive is used to circumvent the cabotage rules. i believe that the combined nomenclature directive can be abolished altogether, since it serves no other function than to facilitate those who want to break the rules. but if the directive is reviewed, then the loopholes must be closed. i demand fair competition and workers' rights. that's the most important thing!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, allow me to start by congratulating norwegians on their national day: ‘gratulerer med dagen, norge’. but, when it comes to the topic ‘liberalisation of trade’ there is no reason for congratulations. the eea agreement was signed in 1994. since then, talks on liberalisation of trade in agricultural products have been slow and with no genuine engagement by the norwegian side. on the contrary, during these talks, in 2013 norway drastically increased import duties for eu products – 280% on cheese, 430% on sheep meat, and 350% on beef. so if you buy a hot dog – a lamb sausage – in oslo, it will cost you about eur 2, but if the lamb comes from the eu, it will cost you eur 10, five times more. on top of that, there is a new import duty of 70% on hortensia flowers from the eu. seventy! do not even think of buying flowers for your girlfriend if she is norwegian. love has a very high price in norway. i have to say to my fellow norwegians, that if you respect your commitments and decrease import duties, i can promise you that the world will not go under. the sun will still rise in the morning. the lakes will be fresh and clean – era fjorder underbara – and you will still be able to eat your brunost since we have do not have any intention of buying it, whatever the price might be. if you do not care about us as a partner, please care about your citizens, who already pay some of the highest food prices in the world. do not make it even more expensive. i would therefore sincerely like to encourage both the commission and our norwegian partners to show a more flexible, constructive and swift approach in order to settle this longstanding issue.
mr president, the european union’s cohesion policy is a crucial tool in order to bridge the inequalities between the eu’s various regions. we have to make sure that the entire union is able to benefit from the economic development, and a transition to a sustainable society and social equality, which the cohesion policy helps promote. however, a key aspect that we believe is lacking is synergies between the cohesion fund and the non-cohesion funds, such as the framework programme for research and innovation, which is a programme that helps promote excellent research projects all over europe, even though there have been some challenges for some parts of the union to fully participate in this programme. one goal of the cohesion policy is to work as a tool in order to foster excellence so that the regional fund can become the region’s stairway to excellence and better participation in the research programme, which would benefit the whole of europe. this is something that the commission is trying to promote with a tool for smart specialisation strategies. this is a good start and i call on all stakeholders involved to improve the synergies in the next programme periods so that all this nice talk on synergies can actually become a reality.
author. – mr president, zambia has for many years been one of the more promising countries on the african continent. the country has two peaceful transfers of powers, making it unusual in africa. but in the last months there has been a serious backsliding. zambia is now, as the important national body conference of catholic bishops noted in an unusually strongly-worded criticism of the government, ‘all except in designation a dictatorship’. the leader of the opposition, hakainde hichilema, has been arrested on trumped-up charges. the government accuses him of treason but has not presented a shred of evidence against him. mr hichilema’s arrest is just the tip of the iceberg – civil society is attacked, the judiciary and police is politicised. the political pressure needs to be upped. we need to start considering zambia as a country heading for dictatorship. president lungu needs to know that we are watching him.
author. – mr president, a decade of strong development in ethiopia has lifted many out of poverty, of which it can be proud, but now this is all at risk. ethiopia is in its eighth month of emergency rule. the government is systematically repressing freedom. in november, the leader of the opposition, professor merera gudina was detained shortly after arriving in addis ababa from brussels, where he gave a speech in this house. independent media and civil society are also under attack. if the ethiopian government values its long-standing cooperation with the eu and the great achievements of ethiopia, it has to start respecting its own constitution. the government needs to immediately end emergency rule and let the united nations in to visit political prisoners. crucially, it needs to immediately release professor merera gudina from prison.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. yesterday we voted in favour of the commission's proposal to add ethiopia to the eu's list of high-risk countries, for corruption and money laundering, among other things. i want to tell you about the case of fikru maru, who is a swedish doctor who in 2006 started a heart hospital in addis ababa. in 2010, he was charged with attempting to smuggle in hospital supplies after refusing to pay a bribe. the charges were dropped and he was released. in may 2013, he was arrested for the 2010 incident over corruption allegations against the ethiopian customs minister. after three and a half years in prison in kaliti, he was convicted of having knowledge of corruption at ministerial level. he was sentenced to four years and eight months in prison, in addition to a fine. in september 2016, he was charged with masterminding the prison riot, and thus terrorism, which includes the death penalty in the criminal scale, despite being in hospital at the same time for treatment of a collapsed lung. the witness interrogations were subsequently annulled by the supreme court of ethiopia, but on 11 may it was four years since fikru maru was imprisoned and he is still not free.
author. – mr president, the women and children of south sudan cannot stand here today to express their desperation, so we must speak up for them. women and girls are systematically raped and abducted as a weapon of war. a un survey has found that 70% of women living in idp camps in juba have been raped, the vast majority by police or soldiers. tens of thousands of children are believed to have been recruited by armed groups. by the end of 2017, half of the country’s population will have been displaced or perished. the country is facing famine and economic collapse. president salva kiir and former vice—president riek machar must respect their obligations. president kiir has committed to unilateral ceasefire; he must implement it and must immediately bring the rapists and murderers among the police and military to justice.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank all the political groups for the broad consensus that has been shown with this resolution. first, a snapshot of the scene: i saw my son, my little baby with the lumpy cheeks, playing on the floor at home, and at the same time you get reports on the tv news of children with big eyes, matte eyes, small bodies. then there's the debate on food waste in europe, about 90 million tons of food waste. and then there's the realization that people are fleeing hunger, conflict, sexual violence; 3.6 million people on the run. nearly two million of them are children. the power cravings of a few lead to the despair, flight and grief of the majority of people, peoples and children. these conflicts must end the violation of human rights cannot be allowed to continue. thank you for this resolution, but let this be the start of work within the eu. the commission and the member states must act.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. for three years i have been talking about how easy it is to cheat with the current regulations on cabotage transport. now you're making it worse. i can tell you exactly what this is going to look like when you allow five days of a number of transports that no longer count. you can drive as much as you want. monday morning, the cars will roll into sweden from denmark. then you will have five days to carry out domestic transport as many as you want, for five days before the car finally returns to denmark on friday evening. from the danish side, it will be the same problem. there the cabotage areas will go to sweden on friday night to return on monday morning. you have opened the gates to something that is possibly even worse than what we have had so far. you will see the market flooded with cabotage companies which will, to a large extent, take over the transport of all honest companies that try to pay contractual wages and have fair conditions for their drivers. the five-day rule is a disaster!
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the pursuit of the climate target we agreed in paris, the road transport sector is one of europe's greatest challenges, accounting for over 20% of eu carbon emissions and requiring comprehensive solutions to make the transition to a sustainable transport system a reality. the proposal for a revision of the eurovignette directive recognises that the road transport sector needs to consider the costs of climate change. it is a good first step, but the bold proposals for reducing climate impact still shine with their absence. a principle of all eu legislation is the so-called 'polluter pays' principle. the commission proposal, however, wants road tolls to remain voluntary. it is not reasonable that access charges for rail are compulsory but voluntary for road. in order to enable the transition to a sustainable transport system, it is crucial to create a level playing field to address the unfair competitive situation in the sector, while allowing member states to lead by taking the lead in the green transition.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me begin by saying that i share the concerns expressed by my colleagues. resilience is indeed a concept that has progressively made its way into eu development policies: 2015 was a milestone year as regards development and the idea of resilience in the eu’s eyes. the commission rightly introduced a resilience marker in its humanitarian implementation plans. this was certainly a good step in a good direction. today’s world is characterised by increasingly complex challenges – climate change, displacement, pandemics, extremism, population movements etc. such challenges test the resilience of communities and institutions as well as the ability of regional and international organisations to support affected societies. therefore, development and humanitarian aid should no longer be about responding to crises after they have occurred. they should also be about helping people and communities to withstand crises and shocks, and helping them to anticipate those and to be better prepared when they happen. this is true not only for state institutions but also for the non-state actors, civil society, ngos and individuals who have to learn how to cope with complex risks. building resilience, particularly in a fragile state, is a long-term commitment. it has to be done not only when tv cameras are around but also when nobody can predict the next conflict, tragedy or poverty situation. let me conclude by emphasising that the eu member states need to show stronger willingness to work in that direction and ensure that their words are matched by the requisite financial contributions.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i will start with a quote by simone veil: ‘human beings are so made that the ones who do the crushing feel nothing; it is the person crushed who feels what is happening. unless one has placed oneself on the side of the oppressed, to feel with them, one cannot understand.’ i just need to say ‘paris 2015’: four persons dead in a terrorist attack against a jewish kosher grocery store. in this city, brussels, four people were killed in a terrorist attack against belgium’s jewish museum. this resolution we are discussing today shows that we, the elected members of european countries and citizens in this institution, do not tolerate anti-semitism in our continent. the memories of the holocaust should never be forgotten. we should do anything we can to combat anti-semitism in all its ugly forms. to do this is to accept the resolution. i am proud of it and i would like to reach out to my colleagues mr becker and mr lópez aguilar for having done such a great job on this. it is very important that we use the new tool, that we spread it, and that we encourage governments to use the tool and the new definition, because i am convinced that this resolution can actually send a very clear message to governments to do everything they can to prevent and combat anti—semitic actions and to bring to court anybody, any perpetrator, performing them. i encourage you to take this resolution to your hearts, digest it and vote in favour tomorrow.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. today the topic of our debate is anti-semitism. i therefore insist on speaking about the hate crimes and harassment against the jewish population in europe which have never completely ceased but rather have been constant, occasionally exposed or latent, but which have increased in recent years. the situation has been particularly aggravated during the various wars in gaza, where many of our countries do not distinguish between the state of israel and the jewish population. as a result, not only those with nazi sympathies are no longer harassing, but the group of perpetrators has become so much more numerous. it also makes the problem that much harder to deal with. it is therefore very important that we make a clear distinction between legitimate criticism of what the state of israel does - just as we criticize other countries and even our own when necessary - and hatred and harassment of jews. it must be possible to criticise the actions of the israeli state, its settlement policy, etc., without being considered anti-semitic. today we are taking a stand on a definition of anti-semitism which has already been raised by many here. there is no consensus among jewish organizations on the definition. the jewish peace organizations, for example, are strongly opposed to it, as they believe that it risks restricting the free debate on israeli politics. the day that the various jewish organizations can agree on a common definition of anti-semitism, i shall be happy to support it. i will not, however, support the definition referred to in today's resolution. that does not mean that i do not support the necessary work against anti-semitism and most of the rest of the resolution. there must be zero tolerance for all forms of racism, for other peoples, religious beliefs, ethnic groups. this must be and is the goal for all of us.
madam president, violence with anti-semitic motives is on the rise. terrorist attacks like those in toulouse, brussels, paris and copenhagen are aimed at individuals only because they are jewish. threats and harassment are also increasing. the situation in my home country, sweden, illustrates what we are talking about today. earlier this spring, the synagogue in the city of umeå closed down due to systematic threats. in the city of malmö, jewish individuals risk being attacked if they wear a necklace with the star of david around their neck. in order to confront today’s anti-semitism in europe, we have to acknowledge the problem and its roots. tomorrow this house will vote on a resolution on this matter. the aim is to find a common european definition of anti-semitism and to use the eu institutions for exchange of information in the fight against this kind of racism. the issue of definition is important because the lack of agreement on how to define anti—semitism makes it impossible to monitor and prevent anti-semitic hate crime, which is a precondition for an effective fight against these evil acts. finally, i would like to thank my colleague, mr becker, for drafting this very important resolution. let us hope for a broad majority tomorrow and a vote across party lines.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. ukraine is still in difficulty and its economy is weak. corruption is still widespread and reform work is under way but definitely needs to be intensified. the current trade preferences were negotiated in completely different circumstances. it was before crimea, before donbass. the new proposal for additional trade preferences, although a cautious one, may be a signal that there is a future. at the same time, my group and i have been clear that the additional trade benefits must be accompanied by continued efforts and reforms in the fight against corruption. this requires clear action by the eu, particularly the commission, and follow-up which can also show that action is making a difference, a positive difference. i am pleased that we have incorporated stronger language in parliament's text on the fight against corruption and that we have included references to the need to pay attention to economic and social impacts and the clear requirement for follow-up. i hope that these additional trade measures will speed up the country's reform process and, moreover, send a message to ukraine that we are here as friendly neighbours.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the association agreement between the eu and ukraine was signed in order to support the european aspirations of the people of ukraine. in recent years, in the most difficult conditions of war, occupation and prolonged conflict, ukrainians have succeeded in delivering the unprecedented reforms we demanded of them. now it is time for the european union to show its support. due to the war, occupation and trade sanctions imposed by russia, ukraine has been losing markets in the east and faces economic hardship. in 2014 and 2015, gdp fell by almost ten percent and the reorientation of the ukrainian markets towards the eu has been difficult. but now the economy is growing again – by 2.3% in 2016 – and it is a crucial moment to support ukraine’s economy and development. these additional preferences to ukraine will support recovery and help combat the economic consequences of a war that is still going on in the eastern part of the country. some measures are asymmetrical but my conviction is that it should be that way. the war and occupation is actually raging in ukraine and not here. in this respect, i welcome the prolongation of restrictive measures against the russian federation as long as the terms of the minsk agreement are not fulfilled. i believe that the autonomous trade measures that the commission has proposed are what we owe to the people of ukraine and i sincerely hope that my colleagues are of the same opinion.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i am very grateful for this opportunity to speak on behalf of the council on the proposal for a council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the years 2018-2022. every five years the council has to adopt this multiannual framework. it determines the thematic areas of the agency’s work on the basis of the agency’s founding regulation (ec) no 168/2007. this is essential to ensure the continued functioning of the agency, which makes such an important contribution to fundamental rights in the union, a work that the council highly values. i would like to inform you about the statement of the council concerning the review of the multiannual framework 2018-2022 made in december 2016 and entered into the council minutes. i quote: ‘under article 30, paragraphs 3 and 4, of council regulation no 168/2007, an independent external evaluation of the eu agency for fundamental rights will be carried out in 2017. as stipulated in article 31(2) of this regulation, the commission, after having assessed the evaluation report and recommendations made on that basis by the agency’s management board, may consider submitting any proposals for amendments to the regulation which it considers necessary. in this context, the council agrees that it will consider carefully any proposals for amendments to the regulation that the commission may decide to submit, including those pertaining to the remit of the agency to cover the areas of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the council further agrees that it will consider carefully any proposals to improve procedures for the governance and functioning of the agency.’ the council trusts that this statement will enable parliament to give its consent to the proposed next multiannual framework for the fundamental rights agency. this framework will allow the agency to continue to deliver high-quality work in the area of fundamental rights in the year 2018 and beyond.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank ms mlinar for her constructive dialogue with all parties concerned and for proposing that the european parliament gives its consent to the council’s draft compromise text on the agency’s multiannual framework for 2018-2022. like the rapporteur, the commission deeply regrets that the text agreed in the council excludes the thematic areas of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and indeed this is not for the first time. the commission has always insisted on the inclusion of these thematic areas in the agency's multiannual framework. there is no reason why the agency should not collect data on all aspects relating to the area of freedom, security and justice, especially in the current context. police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are extremely important in the fight against trafficking of human beings, organised crime and combating terrorism. there are also sensitive areas from the point of view of fundamental rights. it is important that the agency can provide support through reliable and comparable data and the collection of best practices and initiatives. we cannot ignore the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and its consequences. the pillars have disappeared, there is only one law of the union. the commission will thus continue to ask the agency to carry out tasks in these areas, even if they are kept outside the multiannual framework. the commission made all efforts to have these thematic areas in the fundamental rights agency’s new framework, but the council has unfortunately not achieved the unanimous agreement necessary. the commission prepared a formal written declaration regretting the exclusion of the set thematic areas, which we will ask to have included in the european parliament, as well as coreper and council, minutes. let me also underline that the external evaluation of the fundamental rights agency is ongoing and will deliver its findings at the end of this year, and on that basis, the agency’s management board will make recommendations to the commission. at the end of this process we will see whether any modification to the fundamental rights agency founding regulation will prove necessary. this being said, and as also expressed by ms mlinar, it is crucial that the new multiannual framework of the agency enters into force as of 1 january 2018. the consent of the european parliament is essential and i would like to express my full confidence that the plenary will vote to give such consent, allowing for the final adoption of the framework in the council by the end of this year.
madam president, i would like to thank angelika milnar and other colleagues for producing this report. as a shadow from the s&d group, i wish you good luck, because you did this work very professionally and i liked cooperating with you. i would like to start by thanking to fra for their excellent work, which has become essential in recent years. just as in all the other thematic areas, we need fra’s data and recommendations relating to the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters as well. that is why i would like to urge the council and the commission to make the necessary legislative changes to open the agency’s mandate to the former third pillar matters. i would also like, before the commission and the council, to express my special appreciation for fra’s research into the situation of roma in the eu, which is vital for monitoring the efficiency and shortcomings of the policies of the eu and those of its member states. we especially welcome the agency’s research—based recommendations concerning successful ways of fighting anti-gypsyism and securing the roma people’s access to, and enjoyment of, their human rights. it is essential that fra continues its work in this much—neglected field. to this end, i would like the commission and the council to encourage fra to focus on anti—gypsyism during their work on roma issues, to prepare a study on anti—gypsyism in the eu and in the candidate countries, and to monitor it in all the relevant fields.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. thank you, commissioner vella. next week, many of the world's leaders will gather in new york to discuss how we can coordinate to manage our oceans responsibly within the framework of the un's sustainable development goals agenda. it is just the first step in a partnership that could become a force for the oceans, like the work being done to slow climate change. in october, the eu will host the our ocean conference, which will further strengthen cooperation to save our oceans. the earth's climate and our oceans are intimately linked. two thirds of our globe is made up of oceans and one third of land. our planet would not be habitable if the relationship had been reversed. the oceans are needed to regulate the climate, to provide us with vital food, water and, most importantly, oxygen. every second breath we take is oxygen that has been produced by the ocean. for the oceans to provide all the eco-services, we must keep them healthy and viable. we get alarm report after alarm report telling us about remote paradise islands in the pacific that are awash in plastic, about plastic particles that increase mortality and reduce reproduction in small fish and crustaceans - the very foundation of the ocean food chain - and about overfishing and illegal fishing. as much as 15%, or 26 million tonnes of the world's total fisheries, is illegal, according to estimates by the un food and agriculture organization. in total, the fishery is worth $23 billion. blackfish are disrupting our markets and competing with fish from fisheries companies that are doing their jobs. moreover, illegal fishing is undermining all efforts to conserve and manage our common fisheries resources in a sustainable way. inspiring more countries to take action to combat illegal fishing will be one of the main issues at next week's un conference. more than three million people rely on fish as their main source of protein, and in many developing countries, fishing is the main source of employment and income for millions of citizens. as the battle for resources intensifies, we must ensure that they are managed in the best possible way and that they are distributed fairly. then there is no place for illegal fishing. developing countries are particularly affected, since they lack the resources to control their waters and stop illegal behavior. in recent years, the eu has developed a framework of rules to better control fishing beyond its borders. it includes the control regulation, the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and the regulation authorising eu vessels to fish outside union waters. as regards the last regulation, i am the rapporteur and we are currently in final negotiations with the council on a new legislative text which is more comprehensive than the current regulation. we are taking a comprehensive approach to all eu vessels fishing outside union waters, including those fishing under direct agreements with third countries and those fishing in the high seas - something that was previously completely unregulated. this is a great step forward. however, the regulations must not be left on paper they must be followed up. the commission's own evaluation of the control regulation and the european court of auditors' report which came this week clearly show that there is still a lot of work to be done before we can say that we have full control of the eu's fishing activities. it is totally unacceptable that some member states do their homework while others get away with ignoring the rules altogether. i expect the commission to take its role as guardian of the treaty seriously and to put pressure on those who are not yet living up to our standards. at the same time, the regulation on illegal fishing allows us to put pressure on fishing nations which do not live up to their responsibilities as flag states and do not control the activities of their vessels. in the end, the eu can stop importing fish. when the eu, the world's biggest fish importer, closes its market, it stings. unfortunately, there are still too many other markets that are less well-planned, and the 'black' fish finds another outlet. i would therefore encourage and call on other states to follow the eu's example: to take responsibility as a market state. it is time to close the market to all illegally caught fish. as a first step, more countries are adopting and implementing the fao agreement on port state measures, which entered into force just one year ago. it is a framework that allows states to keep boats that fish illegally out of their ports. so far, however, only 46 countries have joined, and many of the major fish markets, such as china and japan, are missing. it is very good and gratifying that the oceans and fisheries are now on the international agenda, where these issues belong. the eu continues its work to access illegal fishing. hopefully, the rest of the world will join us in the boat. we must continue to work hard to fight those who see our oceans as a haven for illegal activity.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking sylvia-yvonne kaufmann and also the other shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation. this is not a matter on which there have been major disagreements, but rather on which we are all very much in agreement. as i said, the current system is 20 years old. in 20 years, a lot has happened. not least, technology has advanced and made it much easier to counterfeit. this proposal for amendments to the uniform format for visa documents was already presented in 2015. it was meant to be a technical matter to be dealt with relatively quickly. it has also become a political issue, not least in the wake of brexit. two years later, the same problem that was the basis of the proposal still remains, namely the forged visa marks that everyone has already spoken about. they have been in circulation in a number of member states. it is no longer safe, which makes it difficult to harmonise and implement eu visa policy. as you can see, there are no substantial changes to the basic regulation itself, but rather more technical changes to the annex. it also means no extra cost to us. our group supports the motion. visas are to be protected against counterfeiting, and we need to address this problem as quickly as possible. i think we can stick to the subject and not ask a whole host of other questions about visas which the commissioner was not prepared to answer today.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner. i think it is important to understand that in the global world and the global economy, there is no such thing as ‘almost innovating’ and there is no real idea of being ‘number two’ because that always means that you are losing. in the globalised economy, if europe wants to be in the lead, we must ensure that the framework programme is facilitating leadership regarding the knowledge economy, research and science. three things are crucial: first of all, we need to have excellence at the centre of all our work, because otherwise we will not use the opportunity of the framework programmes. excellence is the only way to achieve leadership and to ensure that we are not ‘number two’ or ‘number three’. second, we need to ensure that we are at the centre of global research and science, meaning that we shall be open and attracting research and science and investments from all over the world. third, and importantly, we need to raise our ambitions, we need to double our spending on research and science if we want things to come true, all the hopes and promises we have.
in writing. – we welcome the report. it steers the commission’s proposal on the next fp in the right direction. in particular, we appreciate that the report clearly endorses excellence as the key selection criteria. it is also important that the report underlines the role of fundamental research in h2020. we must as well ensure gender balance and transparency in this and following fps. i am delighted that the industry, research and energy committee (itre) adopted my proposal – in the context of the paris agreement – to prioritise funding for climate change research. itre also supported my proposal concerning the need to ensure that 100% of the energy challenge funds are allocated to green energy research and innovation. hopefully, the plenary will do the same. unfortunately if we fail to amend the language on the defence research my group will not be able to support the report. the current wording could imply defence research funding from the eu budget resources, which is a red line for us. we believe that the inclusion of military research in the next mff would create significant cuts in civilian research, which would harm european research and innovation. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and all those involved in this endeavour for constructive collaboration.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur on a very good job, and in particular a thought to our colleague gerben-jan gerbrandy, who unfortunately cannot be here this week for personal reasons, but who has put in a very hard work to ensure that we can deliver a broad compromise in this house that carries forward climate policy in a responsible way. i also think it is extremely important that we do not allow the president of the united states to set the agenda for european climate policy. now, when donald trump chooses to turn away from ambition and from climate responsibility, we actually have a huge opening for europe to do even more that will lead to us getting innovations, that we get new businesses, and that we can lead a technological development towards a better world, that creates the industry of tomorrow and the energy supply of tomorrow. the part we're talking about now, effort sharing, is an important part of the climate package, along with the ets, where we do business, and which is more about industry. but it is also important that the energy package we have on the table now becomes good and powerful legislation that builds on what we are now saying we are going to do through effort sharing. there is also a lot to be done on the renewable energy directive, for example. there is a risk that, in the interest of saving the environment, we will reject renewable fuels, which are the ones that will actually make us cope with the energy transition and create new jobs in rural areas and for european agriculture. today we are taking a big step forward, but there is still a lot of work to be done on technical legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. how many people are living with the horror of cancer on our continent? our job must be to make sure fewer people are affected. it is therefore irresponsible for the commission to want to allow the sale of a substance which the world health organization's international agency for research on cancer has classified as a potential carcinogen. the precautionary principle is a legal requirement of the european union, and it should be clear that it is. it's about people's health. glyphosate is used in agriculture today on a massive scale all over the world. the uncertainty about how it affects people is profound. i also think that the commission is weak when it comes to its responsibility for human health in other areas, such as endocrine disruptors. nor does it show that the risk of cancer is taken seriously. there are now - and several colleagues have raised this in the house - recurring problems with the way in which efsa acts and the reliability of its treatment of industry.
mr president, from a feministic point of view, i would like to stress that the sexual violence in the democratic republic of congo remains extremely serious due to its scale and systematic nature. the victims, in the majority women and children, endure rapes often associated with other atrocicities, such as mutilation, forced participation of family members in rape, gang rape and sexual slavery. conflict—related sexual violence contributes to an increase in the levels of gender—based violence in general, and this lasts for generations if appropriate action is not taken. therefore, i support the mandate of the un to protect the population from armed groups and women from rape and other sexual violence. i call on the congolese government to end the impunity of the perpetrators of sexual violence. i ask for an end to the violations of human rights in congo.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner. i think it is obvious that serbia is making progress, even though there are still some problems to deal with. but i think some of the best arguments for proceeding with membership of serbia to the european union have come here tonight from those who are arguing against membership, because it is very clear that they would like the old conflicts, the old hostilities, the old tensions, to rule over the future of serbia. they are demonstrating exactly the reasons why we should proceed. and i think it is important to remember – and i think that is a message to all serbian citizens from here tonight – that, when we are discussing the problems, we are not raising hindrances or obstacles. we are clarifying what needs to be sorted out in order to be prepared for membership of the european union. and i would like to say that this development is not a sacrifice, because when we discuss all these chapters, it is a way of making serbia a better society – rule of law, the fight against corruption, an open economy, prosperity. it is not a sacrifice, it is a step forward anyway. i think we need to understand that when some people talk about the costs of enlargement, the policy of enlargement has been one of the main success stories for the european union. and we shall never forget the cost of non-enlargement: we saw that in history, and we will avoid it in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the commission progress report is issued at an important time for kosovo, but also for the whole region. recent events have shown the need for responsible action by the governments and lawmakers of both kosovo and serbia, not only for enabling the normalisation between belgrade and pristina, but also to convince this parliament that there is a genuine will for european integration. we as the european union indeed welcome the progress that has been made, not least in the fight against corruption. now we are awaiting convictions and not just indictments of high-level individuals. the epp hopes that visa liberalisation will become a reality. at the same time, we strongly emphasise that a successful fight against corruption and organised crime is a requirement and that the issue is in the hands of the decision-makers of kosovo. after the elections last sunday, we all certainly hope for a new kosovar government to be formed as soon as possible. we hope that the issues which have been troubling domestic kosovar politics will be settled through a determined government and a responsible and europe-oriented political assembly. the resolution we are debating tonight reflects the general view of this parliament. it is balanced and well drafted by the rapporteur, ms lunacek, and i would like to thank you for good cooperation. in order to support the people of kosovo on their significant path towards the european union and show that kosovo belongs in europe, we will vote ‘yes’ to the resolution tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs lunacek for her excellent work and mr šoltes for leading our observation mission. kosovo’s path to the eu is to be welcomed, but problems need also be mentioned. the reason for the snap elections was said to be governmental inability to make reforms in kosovo. however, none of the questions that caused stalemate were put to the voters to decide, so there is a risk that we will see a replay of this situation. this deadlock, which is actually kosovo’s biggest problem, is indeed caused by the difficult government coalitions and the unwillingness of some parties to put kosovo’s best interests before those of the party, a simple unwillingness to cooperate if that will cost them voters. this is not unusual for young traditional democracies, but i still believe that we have to demand from whoever forms the government speedy reforms, primarily on the fight against corruption. sensitive questions like the demarcation line, the association of serbian municipalities, etc. should not be used for political games since they are in the interests of kosovars. enlargement is needed. we want it to happen, but all of us want to secure the process and demand reforms.
mr president, serbia’s path to the eu must be welcomed, but the problems have to be mentioned as well. firstly, nationalism is often used for electoral purposes. ahead of every general election, you send a train to kosovo if it gives you votes. this practice is not unknown in other countries, but it has to stop since it obliges you to be nationalist even outside the election campaign. secondly, serbia wants to have two mothers: one the eu, and the other – stepmother – russia. therefore, the country has allowed russia to take over an enormously large part of its energy infrastructure. the problem is, of course, that if serbian foreign policy can be blackmailed by russia through energy, the eu would be blackmailed as well. i believe the enlargement is needed. i want to see serbia in the eu, but we want a modern, non-nationalistic serbia that does not get involved in the internal affairs of bosnia or kosovo, and a serbia free to create and join eu foreign policy independent of russia. i hope to see that serbia joining the eu soon.
mr. president, i welcome the enlargement process and kosovo’s steps towards the eu, but in order to make these steps faster, kosovo has to solve its biggest problem, illustrated by the election this weekend that i among others have observed. the reason for this snap election was said to be coalition governmental inability to make reforms. however, none of the questions that caused stalemate were put before the voters. so there is a risk we will see a continued stalemate. this deadlock is kosovo’s biggest problem and it is indeed caused by the difficult government coalitions and their partners’ unwillingness to put kosovo’s best interests in front of their party’s. this has to stop; we need to see speedy reforms, primarily on the fight against corruption, and questions like the demarcation line, the association of serbian municipalities, etc. should not be used for political gain since they are in interest of kosovars. enlargement is needed, we want it to happen, but we all have to speed up the process.
mr president, macedonia was given eu candidate status in 2005, and it is time the country made progress on its way to the eu by implementing the needed reforms. in recent years, however, we have seen a decline in the stability of the institutions that maintain democracy: an independent media, the judiciary, the rule of law and minority rights. but the recent political crisis has only just finally come to an end. i sincerely hope that a new era in eu—macedonia relations is about to start. i very much welcome the new government, which clearly demonstrates a pro—european orientation and commitment to the eu reform process. the eu also needs to remain a credible partner in this process. twelve years have been lost, and the membership perspective has to remain in strong focus. i wish the new macedonian government the strength and decisiveness to take on the task of leading the country closer to the eu. that is why i strongly voted for this balanced report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the latest eu barometer shows that there is now strong support among our citizens for eu cooperation. i am glad that more and more people are speaking well of the eu and want to see deeper and better-deserved cooperation. the citizens' faith, hope and inspiration for the future is something that should be a guiding light for us politicians in our work on this. after many fine, positive electoral successes, not least macron in france, we now see how a positive, forward-looking centrist policy can grow strong. the work of developing, improving and changing the union must continue. we cannot accept that we are standing still. now we must take the next step towards common, modern solutions to the crossborder problems we see in area after area. the same study i referred to shows that we should take a shared responsibility for migration, a shared responsibility for climate change and for the fight against terrorism. it's about securing the future of our citizens. we can only do that together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a europe of values is the theme of today's debate. responsibility for taxpayers' money should be one of the cornerstones of this subject. we are now beginning to get signals from parliament about the need to renovate or build a completely new building in brussels. that building was completed in 1993 at a cost of sek 10 billion. the plenary hall in the paul-henri spaak building also underwent a major renovation which was completed as recently as 2014. this is also part, it should be remembered, of the vision of klaus welles, who has spoken about it before: to make the european parliament more like the us congress. so is it because the building is in such a bad state or is it because of a vision of a united states of europe that you want to fulfil? the estimated cost of the new building is estimated internally to be sek 4,3 billion. information leaking out at the same time suggests that there is less panic because you may end up signing a decision that may ultimately prove to be three times as expensive. more than 13 billion swedish kronor. do you think this is what the citizens of europe want their tax money to be spent on? building another palace in brussels? that, i promise, is the last thing they want to see their money go to, so for once, take a little reality check. manage your tax dollars responsibly and stop wasting money on these crazy visions. a building with 25 years on its head, it's hardly ready to be torn down. the continuous renovation and maintenance is a matter of course, but the demolition and rebuilding is utter madness and will never be welcomed by the citizens of europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the shared economy offers endless opportunities for everyone to enter the labour market. breaking traditional schemes, it provides flexible forms of employment and empowers consumers. the collaborative economy goes hand—in—hand with the circular economy, creating sustainable ways of using goods and services and allowing a better allocation of resources. we are moving towards a society where fewer people own what they use and more people share what they need, creating communities. online platforms, with their feedback system, offer increased traceability of transactions, strengthening both consumer protection and the fight against illegality. trust is the new currency of the digital single market, and it is smart, creating entrepreneurs that are in the driving seat – not politicians. we need to be humble to keep up with digital innovation, and overregulation is not a solution. we should instead be enablers and help to boost cross—border growth and facilitate our start—ups to become global champions. at eu level, we need to overcome fragmentation, removing hurdles and hindrance to free movement to create a level playing field. at this stage, we do not need new eu legislation, but rather the full enforcement of existing rules. the important issues of tax and labour compliance and liability are instead better dealt with at national level. in any case, rules should be clear, technology—neutral and future—proof. i understand that there is concern, but protectionism can never be a solution. we should embrace innovation.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i would like to thank you for this discussion. i think that, for me especially, it was very valuable. i share most of your views. i also think that the time has come that we need a holistic, as you call it, coherent european industrial strategy. but what i cannot agree with is that we have in a way – of course nobody has said it – that we have wasted these two and a half years. i will still defend our approach so far. with our communication on smart industry, on clean industry, in our work on the circular economy, with mainstreaming industrial policy through all of our documents and our projects, with our industry day which i want to repeat every year, i think we have a very good base now to have the coherent strategy. i also agree that it is quite difficult, much more difficult, to use existing instruments if we do not have such a common approach, but definitely those two and a half years were not wasted. we are prepared quite well, but we need the support of everyone and every actor to have and to start the work on such a strategy. i also want to assure you, and especially mr martin – i am happy that i made you happy – that i have not disappeared. i have prepared two major industrial strategies: the space strategy that was adopted last december and the european defence action plan with very concrete actions, very concrete money and a very detailed programme for european industry in this sector. in addition of course, to all of our activities in the single market strategy: services package, goods package, compliance package and public procurement. so i can assure you that with this portfolio i will not be able to disappear!
author. – madam president, on 29 may 2017 the azerbaijani journalist afgan mukhtarli disappeared from his exile in tbilisi, georgia. he was abducted and, according to his own account, beaten up and thrown into a car. the next day he was in baku, azerbaijan. mukhtarli has since then been sentenced to prison. we are happy that the european union has a broad cooperation with azerbaijan, and we would like to deepen that. but let us be very clear that to breach the sovereignty of other countries to abduct, beat up and imprison journalists and critics of the government is completely unacceptable. we utterly condemn what has happened to mr mukhtarli and call on the georgian government to ensure a prompt investigation. we call on the azerbaijani government to immediately drop all the bogus charges against afgan mukhtarli and release him from prison and, with him, let all the political prisoners go.
member of the commission. – madam president, the eu observes attentively the narrowing of space for exercising fundamental freedoms in azerbaijan. we have taken careful note of the arrest and sentencing of the number of persons who have criticised the authorities, as well as systemic measures to curb freedom of expression, such as a decision to permanently block five online media outlets or increase criminal penalties for insulting the president. the number of government critics behind bars has increased rapidly since last summer. the charges are not always related to the exercise of freedom of expression, but range, of course, from drug-related charges to liberal and financial irregularities. what these cases have in common is the ease with which the arguments of the defence have been dismissed. on 30 may, the eu reacted immediately to the apparent abduction of a journalist in another country in order to imprison him in azerbaijan, recalling that civil rights and due process of law must be respected. these developments ran counter to the broader renewal of recent positive engagement between the eu and azerbaijan following a number of positive developments since 2015, including the release of several high-profile human rights defenders, activists and journalists. positive interparliamentary cooperation has also resumed and the visit by the committee on foreign affairs to azerbaijan in may was welcomed as a part of this renewed engagement. we will step up our diplomatic effort to return to this path. in a statement on 4 june, the spokesperson for the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission called for an immediate review of the case and the release of all individuals detained as a result of exercising their fundamental freedoms. the issue will also be raised by commissioner hahn, as you noticed, who will be visiting baku as of tomorrow, including with president aliyev. the eeas has also raised this point in a meeting with their counterparts. our main tool for steering our relationship with azerbaijan is, of course, the new agreement that is currently being negotiated. the latest round took place earlier this week and human rights were again one of the main issues discussed. we will pursue relentlessly an agreement that puts respect for human rights at the core of our relationships.
author. – mr president, these days many of us have written something on social media that we have later come to regret. that can be a worry – not least if you are a politician. in some places, however, it can mean that you put your life at stake. a man has just been sentenced to death in pakistan for insulting the prophet on facebook. of 50 muslim-majority countries around the world, only 13 – including pakistan – have a death penalty for blasphemy. islam is a religion of peace, not of death. we welcome the pakistani government’s decision to adopt the human rights action plan; we call on them to repeal capital punishment for blasphemy and immediately release all prisoners held under these charges. only a country that allows people to speak out freely can truly be called righteous.
author. – mr president, during the night of 28 march 2017, men forced their way into a private home in banda aceh. two young men were beaten and insulted, then taken to the police and convicted for consensual same-sex relations. they were punished with 83 lashes in front of a jeering crowd. such humiliating, degrading and inhuman treatment is an outrageous breach of their human rights. it may amount to torture under international law. lgbti people in indonesia are experiencing grave violations of their human rights. discrimination, abuse, police raids, mandatory hiv retesting, and directives against ‘lgbti propaganda’. the situation is particularly severe in the aceh region of indonesia, governed by sharia law. the indonesian government must take immediate action to safeguard their lgbti citizens’ human rights and human dignity.
mr president, when the berlin wall fell i was sitting in my father’s little fiat 750 in sarajevo, hoping to be in berlin and see what freedom looked like. i was already this long, so i had to take the first seat out of the car in order to fit in that little car. but it didn’t help. the car was produced in a socialist fabric in the former yugoslavia, so we didn’t make it. freedom was not yet for us. for us, freedom will come later, after years of blood, tears and tragic war. the other europeans experienced, in the same time, the spread of liberal and democratic values. i am deeply convinced that one of the reasons for that is the wise statesmen who could deal with such tremendous challenges. one of them was helmut kohl. he believed in building a new europe – united, enlarged and free. this is exactly how we should bid farewell to him – by finishing that project. believing in the power of this legacy, believing that europe one day will be enlarged, united and peaceful and that even my two friends who were on that unsuccessful trip with me will one day join us.
madam president, this debate is not about whether we are to fight tax fraud and tax evasion or not. with country-by-country reporting, public authorities will have all the opportunities to fight tax fraud and tax evasion. when some here say that the discussion is about the idea that some are defending tax fraud, that is not true. that is political fraud and reality evasion. because in reality what is happening is that we are supporting international agreements in the framework of oecd and the proposal of the commission. but our socialist friends are undermining these international agreements. come on, tell us: why are you undermining the international cooperation that is needed in order to fight tax fraud? and how will it look in the future when the european union is not sticking to the international agreements and when other partners are saying it is not ideal to have agreements with you. that is political fraud – to undermine the international cooperation for fighting tax fraud – and you should be ashamed, or vote for us tomorrow.
madam president, during the maidan revolution the people of ukraine made their european ambitions very clear. the price they had to pay for that wish to get closer to the eu has been enormous. russia has occupied crimea, causing combative war in eastern ukraine, and imposed numerous trade sanctions. ukraine faces economic hardship, and the effects of the fragile economic recovery have not yet reached its population. this is why the eu needs to show unanimous support. the proposed autonomous trade measures will increase trade flows and give its economy the necessary support it deeply needs. it will also send a strong signal to the ukrainian government that its ambitious reform agenda is widely embraced by the eu. the people of ukraine now want to see their future in europe, and we have to help them get there. this is why i am proud that we voted for this report.
madam president, i made a mistake about the place for this explanation, but i will now give it in its proper place. the people of ukraine, during the maidan revolution, made their european ambitions very clear. the price they have had to pay for the wish to get closer to the eu has been enormous. russia has occupied crimea, engaged in war in eastern ukraine and imposed numerous trade sanctions. ukraine faces economic hardship and the effects of its fragile economic recovery have not yet reached its population. this is why the eu needs to show unanimous support. the proposed autonomous trade measures will increase trade flows between the eu and ukraine and give its economy the necessary support. they will also send the strong signal to the ukrainian government that its ambitious reform agenda is widely embraced by the eu. the people of ukraine want to see their future in europe and we have to help them arrive there. this is why i am proud that we voted for this report.
madam president, i would like to thank you. at the srebrenica memorial there are 149 selimovic. one hundred and forty-nine. i don't know who they were, i don't know what they did for a living, i don't know if they were poor or had dandruff in their hair, and neither did the men who executed them. that's the whole point of the genocide. not kill one and then another and then another. without all of them. every single one of them. the question i have long asked myself is, of course, why these 149 selimovic and not this one? it's an anxious question, but i promise you, you get used to it. i've been living with that question for 22 years. next week, july 11th, we will be commemorating the anniversary of the genocide. we will remember to not forget the suffering people have experienced. to not do so is to violate them again. for its own sake, for the sake of its future and out of respect for the victims, serbia and the republika srpska must therefore recognize that genocide. this report does not mention it, but i am voting for it in the hope that it will help us along the way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is often said that the root cause of a problem should be addressed, not just the symptoms. i would argue that there are simpler solutions to the migration crisis, which is the crisis we should be talking about all the time in this house. the crisis created by an overly generous immigration policy in countries such as sweden in particular, which is in itself well-intentioned but which in practice is disastrously counterproductive to the well-being of a democratic state. in addition, the crisis is caused by the enormous population growth taking place outside europe and the dysfunctional nature of these regions and countries, resulting in high unemployment and very bleak prospects for the future. in italy, the main influx of economic migrants is now coming in. some days, thousands come. the solution is not to arrange for a forced redistribution from italy to the rest of europe. it is like pouring water out of a boat but not plugging the hole in the boat, if i may use such an analogy in these contexts. the commission and some interior ministers presented a solution the other day which would, among other things, help the libyan coastguard to better patrol its coast. we also want to help libya secure its enormous southern border. who will do this is not said. it sounds like you're going to build a new state apparatus in libya, which is going to be a big challenge. i have a simpler solution. give every country its own asylum laws. give italy the right to limit the number of asylum seekers. decide on a pause in the asylum applications, or why not the right to say no to the boats of various organizations that are currently basically transporting migrants almost all the way from the coast of libya to italy. i am aware of the objections to the right of asylum and other international law, but this must be settled.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. last week the commission launched no less than three proposals for increased ambition in the field of defence, and it is impossible to debate defence union without talking about all three parts of the package, which are themselves part of a long-running trend of shifting the focus from civilian to more military operations, not least in terms of the budget. so we should discuss both the basis for the debate on the future of the eu's defence, the new fund for defence aid to the member states and a programme of investment aid for the arms industry. the scenarios presented by the commission in the discussion paper include a proposal to gradually transform the eu into a military alliance. but instead of turning the eu into nato 2.0, we want to see increased cooperation on the civilian tasks that the lisbon treaty already sets out for the eu, such as crisis preparedness, conflict prevention, mediation and peace operations. the 28 eu countries have a total of 178 different weapons systems. the united states has 30. we have 17 different tanks, the u.s. has one. we have 29 different ship models, the u.s. has four. we have 20 different fighter planes, the united states has six, while the united states has twice the budget. the commission is raising this problem of overcapacity, fragmentation and inefficiency in its documents, and we cannot but agree with that. if countries cooperate and coordinate their production better, everyone wins. but to solve the problem, the commission is proposing that the eu should provide the member states that cooperate with the eu with the means to bring about this cooperation which has been on the table for several years but which is not happening because of a lack of will on the part of the member states. the eu already spends over €200 billion on defence every year - the most in the world after the us. the problem is not the lack of money, but what we get for the operational capacity for them, and we think it is the wrong way to go with a militarisation of the eu budget because the money tends to be taken from civilian spending areas such as aid or humanitarian peace operations. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are many citizens who are disappointed in the eu because it is too big a market for big business, because it fails to uphold the rule of law, because it allows social dumping, but i have not met a single voter who asks that the eu needs more military capacity. not one of them. so where does this crazy idea of militarizing the eu come from? it's not fair. i think a lot of the ideas come from the security and military industries, of course. but why are you opening the door for them? why are you opening the door for them? i think that when you have an idea that the eu must be its own master and that it should be, it must have its own guns and buffers. it's patriarchal and it's one-dimensional. this is a lot of money, money that in 10 years could finance the contraceptive needs of all women in the world. shame on you, we're putting them on guns and buffers that the citizens haven't asked for. if the eu is to be a peace project, it should contribute to disarmament, not to rearmament. the european union must ensure that european arms exports are reduced, not increased, and must devote all its foreign policy energy to diplomacy, human rights, democratic development and sustainable development. citizens want health care, education, welfare, democracy and a planet to live on. they don't want any more guns.
mr president, you have to cut your coat according to your cloth: if you have less money you need to adapt to that. a problem when we discuss the budget of the european union is that we tend to forget that the main areas of public spending in europe are at member state level. healthcare, social security, pension systems, defence, schools, education, universities – that is where the bulk of public spending is and must be. and what we can do at european level is in addition to those things and addressing the special challenges we have. we need to put pressure on member states to prioritise, because they have their deficits, and we should not live in the illusion that we can simply move money around, creating bigger deficits or higher taxes without priorities. the watchword now, and from now on, must be priorities. we cannot have the same priorities today as we had yesterday, nor the same priorities in the future as we have today. research in science, regional policy directed at the parts of europe that need support, securing our borders, being a strong partner to our neighbours, enlargement, security – these are the areas we need to prioritise. and then we need to adapt because you have to cut your coat according to your cloth.
madam president, the political dialogue and cooperation agreement (pdca) is an opportunity to bring hope to a nation in need of freedom and democracy. we all know that the eu could make a difference. we have a unique negotiating position but also a moral obligation to stand up for the oppressed and abused people of cuba. however, any normalisation of relations with a dictatorship needs to include conditions for democratic reform and respect for human rights. regretfully, that is not the case with cuba. the pdca establishes a dialogue on human rights. at the same time, no specific demand on the regime is presented by the commission, a fact that has been described as a political victory for the communist regime. the brave men and women of the political opposition in cuba have advised us, the european parliament, not to support the treaty. personally, i will follow that advice and, dear colleagues, i urge you to do the same.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking mr kovatchev for the good cooperation during the writing of the report. looking at the world today, it is clear that the eu and un must strengthen the role of women in all segments of society. we especially need the representation of women from marginalised groups. the empowerment of marginalised women is not only democratic. it holds out the prospect of how to build democratic societies. to this end, i have tabled multiple amendments to stress the importance of women’s participation in peace and security processes, all in line with the numerous un resolutions on this issue. i have also requested the full implementation of the beijing platform for action. and to be honest, as a feminist, i find it embarrassing to still have to put this argument forward. the beijing platform should have been implemented a long time ago. we need implementation, we need reform and we need a un security council that reflects the new world reality. it is time for the eu to have a single seat in the security council.
mr president, for the last twenty years globalisation has defeated poverty in region after region. there is more to do, but it is a process that is thanks to globalisation, and it has created bigger markets for european companies than we have ever seen: crucial for the recovery we are just seeing in the european economy. we need to defend the stability of this world order that has provided for this. we need to see russia as the threat it is, with the disinformation, cyber war and the warfare we see, for example, in ukraine. we need to see that the us is not the credible partner we are used to seeing. when the us gets smaller, we need to get taller, reaching out for free trade and supporting with the national governance. that is the most important aim: that we can take leadership in this global development.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's washing a wave of protectionism over the world, and trump and brexit are perhaps two of the most obvious examples of that. the g20 summit in hamburg is the most important opportunity we have at the moment to combat this protectionism and isolationism. we cannot afford this protectionism. in our part of the world, it costs money and jobs, but in poor parts of the world, it actually costs lives. since 2008, three times as many severe protectionist measures have been introduced as trade facilitation, totalling 3800 worldwide. in the past, the g20 has at least issued a statement in support of free trade, but at the last meeting, trump put a stop to it. when the us fails, the eu must take the lead. that is why the free trade agreement with japan is great news, but it is not enough. we must go ahead and get a free trade agreement with mexico, south america, australia and new zealand, because it depends on europe, now that the united states is failing.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, i would of course like to wish the estonian presidency all the best. you are taking over in an era characterised both by populists who question everything that is common but on the other hand, and this is positive, a very high expectation from the citizens of europe to find common solutions to common crossborder problems. citizens say in the latest eurobarometer, more than 70 percent say, that when it comes to fighting terrorism, climate change and first and foremost all policies now need to focus on building an asylum and migration policy where everyone takes a shared responsibility. it is very important for this union and for our future that we should actually be able to create a policy which is sustainable and in which each country has its proportionate share of the common responsibility. as rapporteur for the dublin regulation, i naturally hope that you will give this priority and work towards a common and really well-functioning policy in this area. it is obvious that the policy we have is not holding up and is not passing the test that reality has put us through. we must guard the outer borders and all people who cross must be registered. a system where we share responsibility for those who are forced to flee is a european commitment, and i fear that a great deal of our future is at stake if we fail to deliver this time. citizens expect legal certainty, protection for those in need of international protection, but also that we can collectively return those who do not meet the criteria, so that they are not only here irregularly but are returned to their countries of origin in an orderly and dignified manner. i think it is important to say that after my meetings now with many from the estonian government, with the prime minister and the other ministers, we can have very high expectations. you will deliver with quality and with a european spirit. let's find solutions for the common good. i hope that when you take over you will fight for us to find these solutions, and when you leave the presidency we will be even more of a european union than when you take over. good luck with that.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i think it is extremely sad that we are once again standing here and deploring the fact that developments in turkey are going in the wrong direction. it went wrong last year and the year before that, and i wonder when was the last time we rejoiced in the progress that has been made. since the military coup, just a few months after we debated our previous report, a state of emergency has been in force. president erdoğan has strengthened his grip on power, jailing party leaders, mps, mayors and journalists who are critical of the government without due process. in addition, well over 100,000 teachers, government officials and others have been dismissed for sympathizing with the opposition or the gülen movement, which erdoğan blames for the coup attempt. but it is not just turkish citizens who are affected. a former mep and president of the joint parliamentary assembly with turkey, joost lagendijk, who now lives in turkey, has been refused entry for a year. we are glad that his case is being taken into account in the report. we greens do not want to close the door to turkey, but we are nonetheless in favour of a freeze on the negotiations and we also reject the modernisation of the customs union at this stage. the eu and turkey have strong ties and we hope they will last, but it is not easy today to defend the continuation of negotiations for either accession or an upgrade of the customs union with a regime that does not maintain any respect for the rules of the democratic game, human rights or the rule of law. the new feature of this year's report is that for the first time we explicitly mention the suspension of accession negotiations if the proposed constitutional amendments are passed unchanged. it is a strong signal not only to erdoğan but to the turkish parliament and to the turkish electorate. they've got the ball now. but the report also deals with deeper cooperation in areas such as counterterrorism and migration, and our view on these is not entirely in line with the majority. on the one hand, we believe that there can be no cooperation on terrorism with a country which refuses to change the terrorism legislation which in principle can cover anyone who expresses an opinion different from that of the president, and on the other hand we believe that turkey is not a safe country to send people back to.
mr president, alarming reports are reaching us from the syriac assyrians of tur abdin in south-east turkey. they are asking the world to listen to their plight. their churches, monasteries and cemeteries have been confiscated by the state. before today’s debate, kuryakos ergun, director of the mor gabriel monastery foundation, sent me the following statement, and i quote: ‘while the turkish government should protect our roots and our religion, it is instead threatening our existence by grabbing our holy buildings and making us believe that christianity no longer has a place in turkey.’ the european union must act on behalf of the syriac assyrians of tur abdin and return to them what is rightfully theirs. if turkey fails to do so, the eu should not freeze negotiations of eu membership but rather consider closing them indefinitely.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and notably the three committee chairs and rapporteurs, for their extraordinary engagement and excellent cooperation over the past months on this file. in spite of its complexity, a compromise was reached. this is a success and i congratulate us all for that. i also thank the council, and in particular the maltese and slovak presidencies, for their efforts to reach the agreement on the european fund for sustainable development, which delivers on the request of the european council to do so in the first semester of 2017. our ambition must now be to quickly start the implementation of the external investment plan with a view to present tangible progress to the eu-africa summit in abidjan and to the eastern partnership summit, both of them in november. let me underline that the external investment plan with its european fund for sustainable development will become an important instrument for attaining the objectives of the un 2030 agenda and will complete our toolbox for development cooperation. this is primarily a development instrument rather than exclusively a banking or financial one. it will steer our development partnership with the private sector in a focused and effective manner in order to contribute to reaching development goals in partner countries. the plan builds on experience. since 2007 we have been implementing eight investment facilities which have leveraged a total investment volume of eur 57.3 billion in our partner countries, with a total of eur 3.4 billion of eu grants. to a large extent, this cooperation has been successful, as confirmed by the recent external evaluation on lending. the external investment plan is taking lessons learned into account. let me reiterate the substance of the plan. it provides a holistic framework to improve investment and therefore decent job creation in africa and the eu neighbourhood. it has three pillars: financing, technical support and enhanced investment climate. these must work hand in hand, and we are serious when we say that via the guarantees of the fund and existing investment facilities we want to leverage more than eur 44 billion of investments in africa and the neighbourhood until 2020. our ambition for the european fund for sustainable development is to go beyond existing instruments by supporting innovative financing models developed by partner financial institutions and an enhanced engagement of the private sector, in particular through the innovative new guarantee and the european fund for sustainable development. let me emphasise that the concept of additionality is very important. for us, it is really important. we do not intend to guarantee investments that the private sector would have made anyway. under the european fund for sustainable development, our partners must be able to prove that this is not the case by bringing in new products, new ideas, investments sustainably and where they otherwise would not go. we will also be coherent with the international fight against tax avoidance by making sure that financial vehicles supported under the instrument are not benefiting from any location in non-cooperative tax jurisdictions. all this will be implemented in a transparent and accessible way through comprehensive reporting requirements to the european parliament and the public and through a new web portal managed by the commission, and the european parliament will have observer status on the strategic board. the board’s tasks will be to provide strategic guidance on overall investment goals and to ensure external policy coherence. this will give the european parliament the opportunity to participate in the steering and monitoring of the overall implementation strategies and objectives of the european fund for sustainable development. therefore i am very much looking forward to a fruitful cooperation in this regard, also in the years to come.
mr president, the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) is for development. a wide array of actors can apply for economic support, but money is never an answer in itself to secure development. in the work of formulating the framework of the efsd, we have been persistent in securing transparency, a clear gender focus and also a complaints mechanism at the commission’s webpage. i have also been very determined in having explicit references to human rights and also to article 21 of the treaty on european union. let me please remind you about article 21: the union’s action on the international scene shall be guided by the following principles: ‘democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law’. all these are crucial elements if the efsd is to become successful in addressing the root cause of the migration crisis and promoting resilient societies. i have to be frank, migration is not a problem. people should be able to move freely between places and regions if they wish and like. but it becomes a problem when the conditions in the one region are so bad that people are forced to move due to the impossibility to lead a good life. this is why it should be ensured that the efsd enhances respect for and the fulfilment of human rights. civil society is instrumental in monitoring the human rights record. i call on civil society to use the complaint mechanism and to let us know when there are faults and how to improve the work of securing human rights for sustainable development.
mr president, today we are reaching out to france to engage in a constructive and positive dialogue for a better europe, closer to citizens. we in the single seat campaign want a more efficient, less polluting and less costly european parliament. we are for – not against – democracy, for dialogue, for europe, and not against strasbourg. it is time to overcome this taboo. strasbourg is – and should remain – a european capital, but we do not want a symbol of peace to become a symbol of waste. let’s be honest: the travelling circus upsets our citizens. we have a responsibility not to let the single seat issue be used by populists against europe. it is not a matter of horse trading. it is building consensus around a table for a win-win solution, providing both economic and political benefits for france, recognising its key role in europe. today we are calling for a legislative report asking for treaty change, for parliament to decide when and where to meet, and for the council presidency and member states to draw up a roadmap for a single seat. in conclusion, the president of france, mr macron, has asked to change the treaty for other reasons. we hope he will receive us in the elysée. there is no mission impossible when citizens ask for it.
member of the commission. – madam president, tax certainty, fairness and transparency will improve the functioning of the internal market and benefit investment and trade in the eu. parliament has already focused on this, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very important report. at the same time, the swift resolution of disputes and the obligation to remove double taxation within a set time frame are crucial to position the eu at the forefront of developments in this area. this directive aims to create a coordinated common framework and the same level playing field for businesses in the union, both big and small. and this amounts to our efforts to create a fair and effective corporate tax system in the eu, and also to tax fairness in general, since not only business, but also individuals, will benefit from the new rules. creating a better way to solve double taxation disputes is only one additional step on the long road towards an improved tax system in the eu. more needs to be done to achieve our objective, we have all recognised this already. and your full support will be needed to provide companies through europe with a common consolidated corporate tax base and a modern vat system.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am here on behalf of my colleague cecilia malmström. about the many questions raised by my colleague, the commission sought the opinion of the european court of justice on the eu-singapore free trade agreement, to obtain clarity about the division of competences on trade and investment and to check if the eu could sign and conclude the fta alone. the court’s opinion provided this clarity in an unequivocal manner. therefore, we have now a unique opportunity to put the governance of the eu trade policy on a more stable and effective footing, allowing the eu to remain a credible negotiating partner that can better deliver for citizens. our objective is outlined in the reflection paper on harnessing globalisation according to which ‘the eu must be able not only to negotiate broad agreements to tackle a wide range of global issues, but also to ensure these agreements can be ratified and implemented’. let me now proceed to your specific questions as already understood. the court confirmed that the eu has exclusive competence for most matters that were included in the singapore fta, such as: trade in goods; trade in services, including transport; government procurement; intellectual property; competition; trade and sustainable development; foreign direct investment (fdi) liberalisation, and the substantive standards of protection for fdi. the court concluded that the competence is shared with the member states for only two areas. first, non-direct investment, and second, investor-to-state dispute settlement (isds) with regard to both direct and non-direct foreign investments. therefore, and despite the majority of the agreement being considered as coming under the eu’s exclusive competence and the remaining parts as shared competence, the court considered that the agreement as it stands cannot be concluded by the eu alone. this means that unless the fta is modified, it cannot be ratified as eu-only, but would need to be presented as a mixed agreement and ratified by all national and, where appropriate, regional parliaments. the opinion gives us an opportunity to look afresh jointly with this house, the council of course, and member states, at ways to make eu decision-making for trade and investment policy more sound and efficient. this discussion will need to take into account the legal and political implications deriving from the court’s opinion: in particular, we will need to respond to the questions as to whether we consider that the status quo, meaning a similar ratification process as in the case of the fta with canada (ceta) is sustainable, or not. or should we rather use the clarity provided by this opinion to move to a more credible and efficient ratification process, taking into account that the eu has exclusive competence for the full scope of our new generation progressive trade and investment agreements but not for certain elements of investment protection and isds? how can we best respect the allocation of competences while presenting trade and investment agreements that are coherent and maximise the benefits for citizens? last but not least, we will need to explain collectively that, whatever path may be chosen, the eu’s trade and investment policy decision-making process is, and will continue to be, a fully democratic one by the european parliament and the representatives from the democratically elected governments of the member states in the council. further to the proposals and actions made by the commission to enhance the transparency of trade negotiations and to ensure the proper involvement of all stakeholders during the negotiations, we are keen to explore further ways to assist the member states in strengthening the involvement of national parliaments early on in the process. once our exchanges produce more clarity and consensus on these matters, we will be in a position to propose concrete steps related to the distinction between eu exclusive and shared competences in the ratification process of our free-trade agreements and the negotiating mandates that will be needed for future ftas. (interjection from mr lange: ‘when?’) once. we will see!
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. the eu's trade policy has been in crisis for the last year. the idea that the trade agreements we conclude must not only be approved here in the european parliament and by all the member states, but also approved in 38 national and regional parliaments around europe, has made it impossible for the eu to be a serious negotiating partner with many of our major negotiating partners around the world. this is something canada learned the hard way. when canada's minister for trade, freeman, literally left wallonia in tears after the social democratic government there, representing 3.5 million in a belgian region, refused to accept the eu-canada free trade agreement, 500 million europeans and 35 million canadians refused to reap the fruits of free trade, jobs and growth. the whole idea is that we are polarizing sovereignty, that we are replacing independent decision-making with real influence and better decisions, and right now we are fighting to do just that in the area of migration policy. with the same logic. but trade policy, in particular, is where we have had the idea of joint decision-making since the treaty of rome in 1947 and the establishment of the customs union, and not defending joint decision-making now will have an extremely high price. because it is the beginning of the end of what has been the basis of european cooperation for 60 years. and that 3.5 million europeans in wallonia are to prevent sweden and all other european countries from reaping the benefits of free trade, i will never be able to explain that to my fellow citizens, because all europeans lose out on that arrangement. but to do something about this, we need to have courage. the commission has the courage to propose trade agreements, pure trade agreements, as eu competence. but i think that even more courage is needed from politicians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because otherwise, we'll never make it.
rapporteur. – mr president, there are 285 million blind and visually impaired people in the world. most of them have very little access to books that they can read. today we can take a major step to change that. today’s debate is about the implementation of the marrakech treaty. this is a treaty that the greens, and indeed the whole european parliament, have been fighting for for years. it creates a copyright exemption in international copyright law for the benefit of blind and visually impaired people so that they can have greater access to books. that is a great thing. the marrakech treaty is an international wipo treaty, but 30 countries have already joined. what problems does it solve? today, when you make a copy of a book into a format that blind people can read by, for example, reading it into a computer, you are not allowed to send that book across a border, because of copyright law. the marrakech treaty changes that by removing those barriers which prevent libraries and organisations for the blind from sharing books across borders. why is this important? most of the 285 million blind and visually impaired people in the world live in countries where there are very few books made accessible in a format that they can read. most of the books that have been made accessible are in rich countries such as eu countries. by removing the borders, the barriers that prevent the sharing of books, we make books available across the world and we take a major step towards giving blind people much better access to books. this will be of benefit in eu countries, but the vast improvement will be in countries in latin america and then africa and other places where many people speak a european language. this will enable the sharing of books from one country to another and create much better access. so why has this not been done before? well, parts of the publishing industry were worried that this copyright exemption might cost them money, so there has been significant lobbying pressure, and the council was for a very long time unable to decide how to proceed, but now we have finally got there. as parliament’s negotiator, i am very glad that we have reached a compromise that enables the removal of barriers to the sharing of books across countries. for many of us, reading books is one of the most important things that we do, and blind people in the world can now have greater access to books. this will make it easier to find a new favourite book. i would like to thank all the people who have been working for this and i am calling on the european parliament to vote in favour of the implementation of the marrakech treaty because blind people deserve better access to books.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am very glad to hear that there is so much unity about something that is this important. i have just one substantial thing to add and that is that i will be sure to agree with the commissioner when he calls for the council to ratify this quickly. however, quickly in the european union is not always fast. it will take at least a year for the member states to implement this before we can ratify and start sharing books for blind people across borders. i want to emphasise that the council, which i know is working on this issue, needs to act quickly. for blind people all over the world this will give greater and better access to books and it is now up to the council to deliver. i would like once again to thank the commission for its very serious and good approach. it has really been a positive influence. i would also like to thank the maltese presidency for helping to find a good compromise. most importantly, i would like to thank the european blind union, which has been an immense asset in this work. it is one of the driving forces behind the marrakech treaty. i would, of course, like to thank once again all the colleagues who have been working on this for years. blind people should have better access to books.
author. – mr president, we stand with those who fight for human rights and freedom of expression across the world. liu xiaobo and lee ming-che have experienced the deprivation of their liberty and basic human rights for too long. their cases are not isolated. while we welcome the news that liu xiaobo has been a released from prison on medical parole, this is ultimately too little and too late. taiwanese activist lee ming-che remains detained without clear or credible allegations proved against him. activists who are simply doing their job are being repressed and imprisoned. all activists imprisoned for legitimate activities must be immediately and unconditionally released.
member of the commission. – madam president, since the detention and conviction of mr liu xiaobo in 2009, the european union has been following his case closely and advocating that he be released. this has been done both through bilateral meetings with the chinese authorities and of course through public statements. we are extremely saddened at the recent news about mr liu’s health and i want to underline that we stand ready to provide all necessary assistance for mr liu and his wife, if they wish to receive medical care in the european union. according to our information, mr liu and his wife cannot move or communicate freely and are not being allowed to receive medical care at a place of their choice, whether in china or overseas. we are continuing to urge china to allow mr liu and his family to meet, and receive visits from, anyone they wish and to communicate freely with the outside world. we have also been concerned about the videos which appear to show mr liu receiving medical treatment and his family expressing gratitude for the medical care that he has received. we do not believe that any individual should be videotaped or otherwise recorded without their express consent. a word about mr lee ming-che. the european union has been following mr lee’s case since he disappeared last march. mr lee was detained by the chinese authorities for exercising his right of freedom of expression and opinion, which should be guaranteed under china’s constitution and its international human rights commitments. we also have reason to believe that mr lee is being held at an undisclosed location under what is called residential surveillance at a designated location, which is provided for by china’s criminal procedure law. in its december 2015 review of china’s conduct, the un committee against torture recommended that such residential surveillance should be repealed ‘as a matter of urgency’, as it could increase the risk of mistreatment. mr lee should be held in a recognised state facility. the chinese authorities should clarify his place of detention immediately and allow him access to his family and a lawyer of his own choosing. regarding the fact that there was no eu item for a statement at the june session of the un human rights council, the eu continues to advocate addressing country situations of concern at the human rights council by leaving several country-specific resolutions under individual items and actively intervening in the council’s general debates and interactive dialogue under the relevant agenda items. the global human rights agenda is, frankly, best served when the european union speaks with one voice. we will continue our work to bring all 28 together and to align positions for the next human rights council in order to stand strong and united on these important issues.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. i choose to speak about the swedish citizen dawit isaak, who is being held without trial in eritrea. in the wake of the terrorist attacks in the united states on september 11, 2001, the president of eritrea took steps to silence any criticism of his country's leadership. the independent press was shut down, politicians, government officials and at least 11 journalists were imprisoned without trial, including dawit isaak. the human rights violations in eritrea are not stopping despite all the pressure from the outside world. the commitment to dawit's release is strong in sweden. according to a report in dagens nyheter in 2010, dawit lived as prisoner number 36 in a desolate prison, chained underground. the cells are reported to be moist, crowded and unhealthy. the prisoners have poor access to water and are starving, but the most important thing in the article is that it was confirmed from reliable sources that dawit isaak was still alive at that time. in the same year, a representative of the eritrean regime stated that dawit isaak could never face trial, as he and other prisoners were alleged by the regime to pose a threat to the existence of the nation of eritrea. dawit's family lives in total uncertainty, and so do the rest of us. that is why this resolution is so important today.
author. – madam president, the s&d group is committed to working for the observance of all fundamental human rights. that is why we initiated this resolution. we are seeing an increase in violence directed against journalists and democracy and human-rights activists across the world. sixteen years have passed – that is how long dawit isaak and other journalists and democracy activists have been imprisoned in eritrea. dawit has become a symbol for the struggle for human rights and press freedom. but for many people he is more than a symbol. back home in sweden, where he has his loved ones, he is dearly missed, as are the other imprisoned journalists. sixteen years have passed, and this is our message to the eritrean government: at least let us hear from him! our message to the commission is: hear us! this parliament has repeatedly stated that no development cooperation can be pursued with the eritrean government as long as they do not respect human rights and set dawit isaak and others free. yet major aid to eritrea under the european development fund has been resumed and a eur 200 million national indicative programme has been signed off. our resolution denounces this renewal of business as usual. this money cannot go to the eritrean government. it must be used to promote democracy and human rights, in the hands of civil society, with not a single cent to the regime. we will not forget about dawit isaak and others. we will not let them down.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. he is a swedish and eritrean journalist who has been imprisoned for more than 15 years without a lawyer or a trial. completely cut off from his family. he's the only prisoner of conscience in the eu. his name is dawit isaak. dawit showed incredible courage as a journalist. at the risk of his own life, he dared to stand up for his fellow men and tell their stories and their fates. the pen was his weapon in the fight for freedom of speech and other human rights. today he's in prison. the crimes of eritrea against humanity cannot go unpunished. it is high time now for the swedish government and the european commission to finally use tangible means of pressure against eritrea. we must impose travel bans on the eu for senior figures in the eritrean regime. we must put an end to the illegal taxation of eu citizens of eritrean origin in the member states and demand that human rights are finally respected in eritrea. standing up and defending democracy and human rights and freedoms is our most important mission in the eu. at home and around the world. together we can break down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance. dawit isaak's courageous struggle against dictatorship deserves to be awarded the sakharov prize this year, and i intend to nominate him for it. now it is our responsibility to use our voice, the voice that dawit isaak has been deprived of. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – i don’t think we should quarrel about this. dawit isaak has been a prisoner of conscience for a very long time – more than 15, almost 16 years – and if there is now another one, then it is even worse. so let us join forces and fight for both of them. if there are any more prisoners of conscience, it is only proof that we have not done enough.
author. – madam president, eritrea is one of the most ruthless dictatorships in the world. president isaias afwerki has imposed a rule of fear through extreme abuses against his own people. the evil acts of afwerki amount to crimes against humanity. he has jailed at least 10 000 political prisoners. today we are focusing on two of these prisoners – two innocent individuals whose lives have been destroyed by afwerki. let us never give up the struggle for dawit isaak and abune antonios. let us never forget their remarkable courage. right now three measures are crucial: aid to eritrea has to be strictly conditional; the illegal diaspora tax has to be halted in all eu member states; and afwerki and his patrons should be prosecuted for crimes against humanity. the brave people of eritrea deserve to live in freedom. we have a responsibility to assist them towards a brighter future.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. this watch shows the time stolen from dawit isaak. it's almost 16 years of captivity, almost 16 years of uncertainty and worry for his loved ones. the european parliament agrees here today to put pressure on the eritrean government to act. we've said it before, and we'll say it again. we call on eritrea to immediately confirm the well-being of dawit isaak. let him go. put him in touch with legal representation and, above all, with his family. words and promises are not enough. now we need action. we need to know he's alive and well. we also demand an end to the detention of opposition activists, journalists and innocent civilians. here, madam president, 5,764 days, 23 hours, 11 minutes and now also 6 seconds. for this long, dawit isaac's time has been stolen from him. that's enough.
rapporteur. – madam president, today many women and girls live in fear and despair, bleeding in body and mind, hurt and crushed by shame. today with our report we give a voice to the millions of women whose lives are devastated by violence, saying loud and clear: you are not alone. we care. we also send a message of support to all those committed to protect women and girls – authorities, civil society – and we pay tribute to their work and tell them that the aim, with the accession of the istanbul convention, of the european union is to give them more tools, a better legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence, and protect victims. violence against women is a terrible crime and should be punished as such. in europe today, at home, women continue to be beaten, and often in front of their children. in public places women risk being harassed and raped going to a swimming pool, a music festival, a beach, and more and more young women are harassed and persecuted on the net. on social media it has become a global phenomenon. i think about tiziana, a young woman who committed suicide because of spreading her intimate videos by her ex-boyfriend, and maria rashidi, disfigured with acid by her husband, who, like lucia, had the courage to denounce him and became a women’s rights activists. many teenagers are raped: too drunk to defend themselves, with friends taking videos and publishing them on social media, thinking it is funny. it is new forms of violence – revenge pornography, sex extortion, voyeurism. violence is now trivialised and victims are mocked. freedom from violence, dear colleagues, is a fundamental right, and the istanbul convention is the first and only international legally-binding act that criminalises violence against women and recognises gender-based violence as a breach of human rights and a form of discrimination. let us be clear: we are talking about men’s violence against women out of jealousy, revenge, frustration, alcohol. often they cannot accept women to be strong, independent, modern, making their own choices and daring to live them. often the culture clash for families coming from other countries and young women who just want to live like their schoolmates, in a dress, in a western way of living is too strong for their own families to accept. is there really any honour in killing a girl just because she has decided to take off her scarf? it happened in sweden two weeks ago. she thought she was in europe and she could be free. violence against women is too often tolerated and seen as a private issue, and we need to ensure more convictions of perpetrators. the convention provides for strict sanctions to combat impunity and extend measures to protect victims, such as restraining orders, shelters, medical and psychological assistance, prevention measures, training of officials, education programmes, responsible media and combating stereotypes. it recognises that, in order to eradicate violence against women, we need to improve equality between women and men, change mentality, combat sexism, and empower women. it is time to shift the guilt from the victim to the perpetrator. women must feel that it is not worth going through the painful process of telling the terrible stories, the shame, the embarrassment unless there is a credible judicial follow-up. member states have to criminalise by law gender-based violence and also ensure that perpetrators are brought to justice. i visited shelters in sweden, italy, malta, greece, and many dedicated people who help women victims. more resources have to be given to them. i would like to finish by saying that i welcome the historical step forward of the eu’s signing of the istanbul convention in may this year. now all the member states need to ratify it and implement it, and we have to continue to join forces also in this parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the dominant gender power structure is a global structure that means that men as a group are superior to women as a group. this structure is supported by norms of masculinity, in which the right to exercise control is an important part. as a result, men account for more than 90 percent of the total violence perpetrated in the world. that's why we need to reframe the overall security agenda. the traditional security policy is patriarchal and based on the idea that men with military means are supposed to defend the nation, its women and children. we'd rather protect a flag than a woman who's being financially controlled by a man. a feminist analysis of security is based on human security, where threats to individuals rather than states are central. this is what i would have liked the report to have addressed: the recognition that a society free of violence must have a completely different security policy agenda. i naturally support this report by my colleagues christine and anna maria.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the istanbul convention is a milestone in the fight against male violence against women. it takes the view that violence is an expression of unequal power relations between women and men and states that violence against women is gender-related at a structural level. it is now very important that all member states ratify the istanbul convention, take their responsibilities and seriously tackle men's violence against women. conventions that remain only beautiful words on paper do no one any good. the convention must be fully implemented. a very important part of the parliament's text is that it states that the denial of sexual and reproductive health services, including safe and legal abortion, is a form of violence against women and girls. what surprises me, however, is the way the epp is now trying to undermine the text. in my view, there seemed to be agreement on the key points of the text at committee level. i am very disappointed in you, anna maria corazza bildt, who is sympathetic to the epp that you have now allowed the epp to publish articles about lgbtq people, sexism and hate crimes. back home, you're gonna let something else set in. i wonder if the epp really wants to fight gender-based violence.
(blue card) i would like to address my dear colleague anna hedh. i am a member of the epp and i wanted to push this report. it was i who asked commissioner jourová in her 2014 hearing to put forward proposals for eu access to the istanbul convention. the report has not yet been put to the vote, so i do not see how you can attack the epp members if you do not know how they are going to vote. it is about combating and preventing violence against women and domestic violence and protecting victims. that is what the report is about. we are united in the epp in supporting the report on the zero tolerance policy.
(blue card) there are many very many who have been calling for the eu to work against men's violence against women for several years. what i am saying is that i am disappointed to hear that the epp now wants to highlight many important things that we have agreed at committee level. it worries me that we're going to start breaking things out now that we've got a good document. that is what i am disappointed about, namely that the epp is now threatening to do so.
member of the commission. – mr president, every time we speak here about discrimination and violence against women i have a strong feeling that we can never do enough. but we have to continue what we are doing and i am convinced that the accession of the eu to the istanbul convention is an important step forward. this is the way that we can better join forces – the eu and the member states – to come up with a truly efficient and balanced mixture of preventative measures and repressive measures. i want to emphasise that yes, we have to speak also about repression because we speak about crime, we speak about the need to come with an efficient response from the side of the law enforcement authorities in the member states and to better protect women and children. the istanbul convention and accession to the convention will give us, among many other new things and opportunities, a better way of collecting data and of analysing the root causes of violence against women. through that we will be able to better understand the role played by women’s economic dependence and this will encourage us to do more in this respect. what is the impact of the passivity of our society? we see that part of our society thinks that it is normal to beat women, that domestic violence is something we cannot eliminate, that violence against women is something that the victims in many cases deserve. this is unacceptable and we have to convince all our society that this is not normal. we will understand better how to assess the influence of alcohol because this is not discussed very often but we see that this is also a big issue. we will understand better how to encourage the victims to go and report to the police, how to get them to trust more the institutions which have been established and which are in the eu to help the victims, because still we see that only about 15-20% of the victims report such violence. we will understand better how to achieve better law enforcement, and here again i speak about criminal law in the member states. we have to better understand and come up with appropriate action to address violence stemming from bad traditions and so-called culture, which was also discussed here. no culture can be the excuse for violence against women and children. we should do much more to explain to young boys and girls that this is not normal to accept violence, that it is not normal that their fathers beat their mothers, in many cases. we will understand better and we will be better able to measure the trend, because you see that in european society violence is on the rise in general, and we see this trend online. we see the rise of violence against women and bullying and sexual harassment. we see this trend and we need to be able to better measure and to come up with the proper reaction. i strongly disagree that this is an ideological issue. i cannot understand how somebody can look at it from this point of view because violence is a crime, unacceptable according to the law. murdered women are often victims of sexually-motivated crime. what is ideological about our effort to eliminate this from europe? i must say in reaction to what mr niedermüller said, yes, i am worried about the development in some member states which are looking at russia as an example of the way forward. in russia there is a law which says that the first blow in domestic violence does not count. this is not the way the eu should go in the 21st century. very often when i speak about how to combat violence against women i have in my speeches the horrifying figure of how much it costs. some of you mentioned eur 230 million a year. i am always embarrassed to mention this figure because this is not about the money, this is about the life and health of women and children. ladies and gentlemen, i can confirm today that i shall remain fully committed to keeping you informed on our progress in this endeavour, but also to sharing the state and results of our on-going actions, including the achievements and experiences from the still-unfolding year of focus actions on fighting violence against women.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am really glad that we have actually reached a broad consensus across political groups. i thank christine and all the other shadow rapporteurs. together we are saying: stop violence against women. we share this common goal: this report is about achieving and increasing more, stronger tools. our report is a wake-up call to the member states to do more. the time has come to move from words to action. member states have to overcome their reservations and speed up the eu’s accession and ensure a broader scope, not only in terms of cooperation in justice and criminal law, asylum and non-refoulement. some points raised by colleagues: cooperation in criminal law is an eu competence foreseen by the lisbon treaty. we already have tools at eu level to deal with serious crimes, trafficking, sexual abuse, protection of victims, and recently even the directive to combat terrorism. i would like to join the call to the commission to propose a legislative act on violence against women as a way to strengthen our capabilities. i also understand, colleagues, the concerns and the controversy surrounding the word ‘gender’. you know how much, throughout the process, i reached out with genuine goodwill to clarify, bridge the gap and leave no misunderstanding. a definition of gender-based violence, in the commission, according to the council of europe, is ‘violence done to a woman or a girl, just because she is a woman or a girl.’ it is not an ideology; it has no hidden agenda; there is definitely nothing against christian or family values. i do ask the commission again to clarify, together with the council of europe, this misleading interpretation and engage in dialogue with the member states on the issues that prevent the full ratification and implementation. and i fully support the work of the council of europe grevio, but they should speed it up. my last point, mr president, raised by colleagues, is the issue of migrants also having rights and duties, and having to respect our laws, and religious culture never being an excuse to oppress women. respect for women should become a social norm, but we can never stigmatise migrants for violence in europe. women and girls on the move are actually victims of violence – the slavery of our time. let us, colleagues, have a special focus on children and continue to put pressure on the member states. the european parliament and the epp will continue to commit to zero tolerance against violence against women, and to keep it at the top of the eu agenda.
blue-card question. – mr president, it is with some surprise that i hear strong words about a few countries. the few countries you are talking about are the few countries that have been managing their forests in a sustainable way for years. i would like to compare the way we have been managing our forests to the way that your country has been performing with your forests. again we come down to this issue. when colleagues from other countries – which do not have bears, do not have wolves – want to decide what we in sweden should do with our forests, please explain how your model is better than ours.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu does not and should not have any say in forest policy. because, frankly, i don't think we even agree in this room on what a forest is. however, the eu takes many decisions that affect forests, not least in climate policy. this is perhaps the most important of those decisions. when we design climate policy, we need to use the incredible potential of forests to combat climate change, but we're not doing that today. most of my colleagues who have now told us how to use forests and what we should decide on, and who probably do not even know the most basic facts about the state of europe's forests - that we are not even reversing 60 per cent of growth, that the forests of europe are growing almost the equivalent of one cyprus every year. so you can increase the amount of forest and increase the amount of logging. we've been doing that in sweden for over a hundred years. that is why we must never limit the intensity of forestry. i would like to say to my socialist colleague from the united kingdom: you cut down your forests a thousand years ago and you still haven't figured out how to get them back. i think it should be a moment of humility to try to teach lessons to those who have cared for and developed the forests and got them back, just in the last hundred years. listen and learn instead!
mr president, i would like to thank you. anyone who follows this debate might think that there are a great many people in this chamber who are opposed to the idea of having a basis for calculating the climate impact of forests. that is not the case at all, but we are talking about technical details where we differ in the proposal that has come from the commission. i would also like to remind my colleagues on the environment committee, who seem to have completely forgotten that the committee on industry and the committee on agriculture have also dealt with this report by issuing opinions. there, the result was quite different. so if you try to make it appear that a few members from a few countries have a different view on some of the bases of calculation, that is not true at all. it is an overwhelming majority in the committee on industry and the committee on agriculture that have a different approach. as regards reference levels and why they are particularly important, it is clear that if we set the basis of calculation on a historical basis, that means that if we were to look at toothbrush manufacture and it would apply to how we had to manufacture toothbrushes in the 19th century, it is clear that we would get very different results than modern technology today.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the inclusion of land use and forestry in lulucf, the eu's climate and energy framework, is very positive, but it must be done in such a way that the ambition of the framework is not reduced. a key issue is how the forestry reference level is set. the rules should be transparent and robust, while i still want to see national self-determination in forestry matters. we should reduce the production of short-lived forest products and give priority to long-lived products. we must also reduce energy consumption and paper consumption. we're going to focus on energy efficiency and recycling. i want to phase out the calf-rearing and return to natural calf-free forestry methods. we should also promote natural rejuvenation and increase the proportion of mixed forests with more deciduous trees. i would like to thank mr norbert linz for his amendments, and i am absolutely prepared to vote for them.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the language is sometimes quite revealing. notice that people are happy to call those with whom they disagree lobbyists, while those with whom they agree are often called important interests of society. but the fact is, all those who try to influence us are actually lobbyists. it's good, it's good. it's called democracy. it's almost a human right to get in touch with the people who make the decisions. some of the most active, and in my view the most successful, lobbyists are our environmental organizations. that is why i think it is important that we do not make it difficult for people to contact us. that is why we should not introduce a lot of bureaucratic registers which make things more complicated, because we as members are always responsible for everything we propose and everything we vote on. if you are afraid that even meps will be duped by lobbyists, then i have a clear recommendation: the european parliament is the only institution in the world that has the power to decide on the future of europe.
madam president, bosnia and herzegovina has the lowest financial support per capita from the eu, not only among the balkan candidate countries but also among the accession countries. this is not consistent with eu ambitions to strive for international cooperation and support these balkan countries ravaged by the war, socialism, and nationalism, especially since bosnia and herzegovina’s constitution – the dayton agreement, mainly the result of western pressure – does not allow the country to progress. therefore i welcome the commissioner’s answer to my question: that he is considering increasing the financial support to bosnia through the instrument for pre—accession. this will enable the country to take the necessary action crucial for bosnia’s integration into the european union and further development. i think the country should also be compensated for the lack of support in previous times.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. although we do not agree on all the details, i believe we have a broad consensus on the need to strengthen arms export controls. we have different political views, but when it comes to the issue of preventing weapons from falling into the wrong hands, we are united. arms export control is an important part of our foreign policy but is increasingly becoming a domestic policy issue as well as we have witnessed an increase in terrorist attacks around europe carried out by supporters of daesh, who we know have access to european arms. after the terrorist attack in catalonia, the focus of the discussion was clearly on arms exports. we had read in the spanish media that the king was going to saudi arabia to promote arms exports. after the deed, the debate turned to that. 'we want peace, not arms sales' was the message on the streets of barcelona. the connection was arms sales to saudi arabia. saudi arabia is paying for mosques in europe. well-integrated young people are radicalized in the mosques and committing terrorist acts in europe. but saudi arabia is not only supporting the financing of radical mosques in europe, it has also systematically re-exported european arms to the war in syria, where terrorist groups such as al qaeda, nusra front and daesh have also been able to obtain the weapons. we cannot accept that european weapons should end up in the hands of terrorists. we have a comprehensive and clear common legal framework in the common position with its eight criteria. it is a strong framework that, if strictly applied, could make virtually all arms exports to conflict regions or countries that commit serious human rights violations impossible. in the light of the above, we can now conclude that the risk assessments carried out by the member states were not satisfactory and that several of the criteria of the common position should have stopped exports to countries such as saudi arabia. but since it is up to each country to check that the rules are being followed, countries can, in principle, break them without hindrance. but even if the common position is respected, we are now in a situation where countries which in peacetime bought arms and other military equipment from us for their own defence are now actively participating in offensive wars in other countries or supplying arms to belligerent groups in other countries. that raises a number of questions. why do some eu countries continue to grant new licences to countries at war? can we stop the follow-up deliveries? can we stop guns from ending up with other end users? the last two questions are not helping us with the rules at the moment. what we have proposed in parliament earlier is an embargo against saudi arabia. today we propose that embargoes be used in more situations. embargoes are the only viable system we have to stop exports that are no longer compliant with the regulations. the developments also show that our long-term risk assessments need to be so much better. we would have to look not only at the use of the material but at the situation in the recipient country as a whole when authorization is granted. we must also ask ourselves how it is that 40 per cent of our total exports of war material go to the gunpowder-rich middle east and only 15 per cent to other european countries, which are our second largest market. and is it reasonable that we in europe have such an overcapacity of weapons systems that we are forced to export to keep our operations from collapsing? the arms industry was created to meet the needs of its own defence, but jobs are often claimed as the basis for continued support. i would remind you, however, that under article 10 of the common position, labour market reasons are not a basis for export authorization. in this year's report, we set out a direction and a clear message: the rules are to be followed. the eu should not turn a blind eye when european weapons are used in violation of our own rules. we also make some recommendations for changes, including a tightening of reporting requirements to allow for better scrutiny, the possibility of imposing sanctions on countries that violate the rules, and not least we hope that federica mogherini will take the initiative to actually use embargo in cases where countries violate international humanitarian law. it is not just international peace or the image of europe that is at stake, but also the security of our own citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in this matter, it is easy to become popular or perhaps i should say populist. it goes something like this: guns are terrible, they kill people and that's why we should ban arms exports. however, the export of military equipment is ultimately a matter of defence and security policy. in defence and security policy there are rarely any simple truths. which defence industry companies are allowed to sell what, to whom and when, has to be judged on an individual basis, and that changes very often over time. but what this question is really about is something else. it's about who decides this. in sweden, few politicians would say that they want anything other than that 'in sweden we decide on swedish arms exports, on swedish defence and security policy'. however, in this vote i believe that many people, especially the red and green group, will support the position of mr bodil valero, which is that we should have the common position followed by sanctions. it is to make it supranational, to give up parts of our self-determination in defence and security policy. it is as if subsidiarity is an overcoat that you can take off when it is uncomfortable and put on again when you are about to appear before the voters, but no one will accept it. i am convinced that we must do much more in the field of defence industrial cooperation. however, i think that more joint decision-making on defence exports will only lead to the wrong thing. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
(blue card) i have to ask you where you got the information that sweden or the member states would not decide on their own arms exports. the common position is minimum rules. that is what we have collectively committed ourselves to - that is the minimum level. you know as well as i do, christofer fjellner, that in sweden we are making our regulations even stricter. we'll continue on that path. your party's in on it, my party's in on it. nowhere in this report does it say that we are trying to stop arms exports, but it is about controlling the arms exports that we have and complying with the rules the common rules.
(blue card) you do not mention the small crucial difference between what is now the common position and what you are calling for, namely that sanctions should be imposed on those who make a different assessment so that these issues are changed over time. if the eu has the power to impose sanctions and punish countries that make a different assessment, then by definition it is supranational. i am convinced that your report will be passed by a fairly large majority. i guess i'll have to congratulate you on that, to some extent. i am glad to say, however, that i do not think there is any chance of this being achieved by sanctions. i am convinced that the member states, like myself, value and protect national competences and put an end to the idea of sanctions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs bodil valero, for her work. as a representative of the feminist initiative and as a staunch pacifist, i am always concerned about voting for weapons in all their forms. i do, however, support the need to increase controls on arms exports from the eu. it's needed. earlier today, the economist reported that the world's global arms trade is booming. an even better way is to ban the production of weapons altogether. on july 17, the united nations adopted a historic decision to ban all nuclear weapons. it was then the women's and peace movements in particular that had been fighting for this for many years. many did not believe that such a ban was possible. "it's never going to happen", the activists told the protesters. but the pessimists were wrong. weapons can be abolished, and that's exactly how we're changing the world -- with a feminist vision that we can create a peaceful world without weapons, with dialogue.
the rapporteur. the debate really shows how different our views can be in this house but also how important it is. i would like to have replied to geoffrey van orden who complained that we are not talking about the rest of the world at this stage, but it is actually the european export controls that we are talking about. that is why we are talking about european exports, not the exports of other countries. as i said earlier, we are not talking about stopping all arms exports. we're not talking about countries not having the right to defend themselves. however, it seems that there is a perception from some in this house that this is what we are saying. i would urge them to read the report once more before they vote tomorrow. i mentioned that we have the common position, and it is a very good body of rules. i fully agree that it is a good framework if we really use it. it now turns out that we believe that these criteria are violated in many different cases. according to a study that's been done, you're breaking them. according to the coarm study. nevertheless, the member states claim to have a more stringent regulatory framework than the common position actually is. then i have to ask myself if that's really the case. i just heard that france has the strictest regulations. i've heard in the past that the british have the strictest regulations. in my country, we say we have the strictest regulations. however, it is not a question of who has the most stringent set of rules, but of following the common rules that we actually have. this is what we agreed on, and this is what we will follow. we can then have stricter rules than the common position, but we cannot have less stringent rules and refer only to national legislation. we also have the arms trade treaty, which contains an article that we do not have in either the common position or in swedish legislation, and that is on gender-based violence. it is also something we read into human rights, but it is a criterion we do not have. i hope we'll have that in the future, too. i think that when we discuss the level of the measures, we should always be concentrating on the best possible practices, not the worst possible practices. we're gonna reach high, not aim low.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the criticism of the current policy and the externalisation of the eu's borders is indeed wide-ranging. it comes from ngos, from doctors without borders, from amnesty, from human rights watch, from the un commissioner for human rights, from the un commissioner for the rights of migrants, from unicef. however, i do not think that you, federica mogherini, are responding to that criticism. you're pretending it didn't exist. the eu today is associated with deportations to war and conflict, to dirty deals with erdoğan and now with libya, to a continent that forces people to remain in completely inhuman conditions in libya. even those who save lives in the mediterranean are accused of working with smugglers and stopping their activities. how low do you want to go? criticism of this policy is growing. in sweden we now have a popular movement demanding an end to 'fort europa' and an end to deportations to afghanistan, for example. the people if we work together do not want to see a fort europe. they want to see an eu that creates safe and legal roads - which you also mentioned - and that takes a shared responsibility to protect people.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the european union and its advocates have decided that they know better and have greater competence than the member states themselves. brussels will now centrally control, among other things, the number of migrants a country can handle. now the visegrad countries have been forced to become multicultural or at least to take in thousands of migrants. do they? - i know. did they vote for it? no, they haven't. the ruling elite and the various leaders of the european countries are constantly inventing new solutions. in september 2015, there were compulsory quotas. in may 2016, there was a permanent redistribution mechanism. you talked a lot about last year. now it's all about hotspots. macron and merkel have already bypassed the eu and want to negotiate this themselves, but what if they set up a system of hotspots while we have a distribution mechanism? should sweden be forced to take in migrants through this mechanism as well? new ideas are constantly being put forward on how to force this migration on the people of europe, and this shows that the root of the problem is not being solved but that mass migration to europe is being made permanent. are they building modular homes in bratislava now? sit-ins in budapest? what are you talking about? it remains to be seen, but the voters of 2019 may well ask themselves whether they should trust those of us who have warned that migration is not the solution to all problems, or those who have recently come to realize this. the choice is therefore between strong and secure nation states, for which i am fighting, or forced migration to an increasingly uncertain europe, for which the dublin iv rapporteur is fighting.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i wonder if president erdoğan thinks that his relations with the eu countries will be better off by constantly provoking and challenging us, or if this is part of a strategy to get us to close the door completely, so that he can blame the failure at home on the eu instead of on his own policies. i can't forget the quote where he compared democracy to a tram that you use until you don't need it anymore. is it possible that erdoğan has reached the end of the line? what concerns me today in our relations with turkey is the immaturity of using interpol to silence critics of the regime abroad. it is hardly possible that we suddenly have 60,000 turkish criminals who need to be sought by interpol. of course, there may be 60,000 or more turks who disagree with the president's policies and who express it freely, but that is a major part of freedom of speech and opinion. in spain, a swedish journalist of turkish background is now in prison awaiting possible deportation. his name is hamza yalcin, and he has lived in sweden for 30 years. the information on when a possible extradition will take place varies, but it is worrying if we are sending such a signal to the turkish and kurdish diaspora. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. full steam ahead! it's a line i remember from the movie titanic. you know the scene where the captain stands on the bridge and looks out over the ocean and says, i don't see any icebergs. full ahead! you have certain similarities with that captain, jean-claude juncker, and we all know how that ended, unfortunately, on the titanic. as you remember, i have also told you before that the people of europe are not interested in hearing this kind of vision and dream. they want to hear concrete solutions to the problems they see in their daily lives. the migration dreams that the eu cannot manage, the social dumping that kills serious businesses that do not manage and the concerns about the future and ageing - these were questions that the people of europe wanted answers to today, but as i feared, they became visions and dreams about the building of an eu army and even more of federalism, where the silence of criticism of the eu is a priority task for the next eu elections.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr president of the commission, thank you for your speech and thank you for raising the issue of sound labour market rules. healthier labour market rules will be crucial for eu cohesion. nothing else can be as powerful. there is nothing more divisive than social dumping, which means that workers must compete by selling their labour as cheaply as possible. it is an affront to europe. on that point, many people are hoping for you, that is to say, a supervisory authority, but first a posting directive and strong players in the labour market - no authority can take over - and eventually a social protocol to be added to the treaty. as for your views on the eurozone, i must point out that many of us assume that you have full respect for the countries that have said no. in sweden, for example, a clear majority in a referendum has said no to the euro, and that must of course be fully respected.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it is important that we do not abandon the work that we did in the emis committee when we examined dieselgate. dieselgate is a disgrace to an important european industry of which we should be proud, which has made great strides, but which unfortunately shows that it is prepared to use loopholes and back doors to get away from doing things that should have been done a long time ago. it also brings shame on the member states which have failed to maintain control. it is also a disgrace to the commission and to this institution, because we have not been able to ensure that the rules we have are actually respected. the solution to this is not to have a war against the internal combustion engine or to try to look at history, but to look ahead. how do we get the cars that are on the streets in order? we need a plan of action. how do we ensure that we get good legislation that is actually being followed in the future, with clear controls and with clear consensus as many of my colleagues have asked for? only then can we ensure that we will be able to deal with this difficult problem, which is a source of shame for europe.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the light of the grenfell tower tragedy in the uk, we must work intensively on this issue. fire safety is a major social and security issue. figures suggest that there are at least 5 000 fire incidents every day in the eu. in many, perhaps most, of these events, a community, a business or a family is affected often for years and sometimes, as in grenfell, for life. fires have also changed considerably in character over the last few decades. this is due to new, more flammable materials. however, most european countries have not updated their fire regulations adequately to keep pace with the rapid renewal of building materials entering the market. at european level, the harmonised fire testing and classification rules have not been sufficiently updated to deal with modern building materials. in this area, the eu must act vigorously to save lives. no one needs to die in a fire.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we would then finally have an accessibility act in the eu. many of us had worked for it for a long time. but how wrong that can be! for once parliament has succeeded in weakening the commission's proposal. the evidence now on the table puts business before people. it is up to companies to decide whether or not they want to make their products and services available to everyone. perhaps most disturbing is the view of the built environment and how the requirement to make it accessible to people with disabilities has now been removed. an outrage - yes, an outrage against all disabled people! this shows a clear difference between left and right politics. i hope, however, that we will win this battle tomorrow. i am surprised, however, at the total inability of the right-wing groups to see the consequences of their actions. if you are constantly going after companies, more and more people are being excluded from the single market. the fact that disabled people are not allowed to take part in transport, to withdraw money from an atm, for example, - if anything, it should be understood that this threatens the very heart of the internal market, where citizens should be the focus. the key to a better europe is a social europe that stands for the equal value of all people.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, of course, i would like to thank mrs ulrike rodust for her work on this management plan. she also led the work on the reform of the eu's new fisheries policy. the most central question in the whole reform is how to make fishing sustainable. we decided, together with the council of ministers, in the basic regulation that fish stocks should be restored and maintained above levels that ensure maximum sustainable yield. it is the only way to ensure that we have sustainable stocks in the long term. then it is not sustainable to fish at a level which allows a mortality rate far above the maximum sustainable. then we'll never reach our goal. it goes without saying that it's impossible. the common fisheries policy set a limit, and that limit is fmsy. that's all we can catch. i therefore support the amendment tabled by the alde group to remove the ranges above fmsy and call on all others to do the same. that is what we all decided to do in the common fisheries policy. we all have an interest in sustainable fish stocks. it is a prerequisite for healthy seas, for employment and income in commercial fishing but also for recreational fishing. many of us exploit the resource, and in some cases recreational fishing has a very large impact on fish stocks. we have a common interest in preserving stocks so that they continue to produce for future generations. recreational fishing must therefore also be held accountable where it has a major impact on our fish stocks. the committee on fisheries adopted a paragraph in its report which says just that. it is important to support this point if we are to guarantee long-term sustainability.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is clear that this can be seen as a business transaction if it is not your own country that russian interests are flying into in an exercise to secure their gas supplies to europe. we already have a lead. now the noc is building another pipeline that risks going against all of our climate and energy work that we're doing in the first place. the biggest package of legislation we have at the moment is the clean energy for all europeans package. this is way beyond the ambition of it. secondly, there are two major military exercises under way in the baltic sea. one based in sweden, the other based on russian interests. let's say this escalates, let's say the intensity of the conflict between the west and russia increases. what will russia do? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. no question is so simple that it would be just a business transaction. here we have a responsibility for the whole of europe's security, for the climate, for energy. we in parliament can put our foot down and demand clearer action. this project should have been stopped a long time ago.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the terror in burma does not fit the western narrative of militant muslims and peaceful buddhists. aung san suu kyi's silent admission does not fit our image of the hero who stood up against militarism. aung san suu kyi, you have been a role model for me too, but now it is impossible to continue to keep silent. satellite images show villages where children had just played, mothers had fetched water, and fathers had ploughed fields, now burned and emptied. so many have died trying to escape through the jungle. in bangladesh, many drowned refugees have been caught. aung san suu kyi, your silence must also come to an end. your struggle has been awarded the nobel peace prize and the sakharov prize. if you fail, you will not only miss the prizes, you will lose your honor. we, the eu, must react and act now.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. although europe is a world leader in women's rights and gender equality, we still have a long way to go. as president tajani said when he opened the session, we in this house have a huge responsibility for women's rights, and we can make a difference. i am therefore pleased to present today my report on the economic empowerment of women in the private and public sectors in the eu. in today's europe, we see the inequalities between men and women clearly in our everyday lives, whether it is the gender pay gap, the pension gap, the responsibility for unpaid domestic work or harassment in the workplace. in the work on gender equality, economic self-determination is a central issue and something we must always take into account when we try to achieve change. one of the main factors limiting people is economic vulnerability, and women are overrepresented in both poverty and economic dependency. the result is the wage gap and the consequent pension gap, which unfortunately remains alarming. the gender pay gap in the eu is 16.5%, which in turn has resulted in a 40% pension gap, while the gender employment gap costs the eu some €370 billion a year. in addition, 17 million women in the eu are currently involuntarily excluded from the labour market because of precarious working conditions. we must ensure that women's jobs are secure and that they are entitled to fulltime employment. we must also tackle unpaid domestic work, which women in the eu do 24 hours more than men. i want to see an end to this, and i think a key way forward for gender equality is about economic self-determination. the road to that is not easy and we must dare to think broadly and long term. but i think my report can be a guide. before the vote tomorrow, there are certain points in my report which i would like to stress particularly, and which we actually agreed in committee. nevertheless, the epp and alde are now trying, as usual, to remove these important issues. some of them are the gender pay gap, which has to stop. that is why i propose that wage surveys and that the social partners should work for higher wages in sectors where women make up the majority of the workforce, that the macroeconomic trends we have today must be reviewed. we need a gender perspective on economic policy. this was particularly evident during the economic crisis, when austerity hit women particularly hard. men's violence against women is one of the great security problems of our time. we must put an end to the patriarchal notions that have resulted in women dying. and we need to make sure that everyone has access to sexual and reproductive health and rights. the right to control one's own body must never be restricted. we are only three years away from 2020, where we have set ourselves very high targets that we must achieve. we cannot accept failure and must continue to work for women's empowerment and participation in the labour market. we must show leadership by taking a firm stand that we do not tolerate inequality and that we also expect both the public and private sectors to take responsibility for the lack of equality which is spreading because of the problems raised in this report which we are voting on tomorrow. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report, both members and officials. it's been a fantastic job working with you.
mr president, as chair of the petitions committee it is my responsibility and duty to listen to and respond to the concerns of eu citizens. my committee has received a large number of petitions expressing grave anxiety about citizens’ rights in a post-brexit era. they all have something in common: they are all the result of the insecurity people feel that they have been thrown into due to a very unclear withdrawal of the uk from the european union. some of them have tens of thousands of signatures. from also the perspective of the conference of committee chairs, let me just express that there is an immense task we are all aware of in front of us for all the committees. i know how important it is that realism and pragmatism is allowed to inform and shape the debate and the negotiations, and we are lucky to have an excellent negotiator in michel barnier. in this context, the european parliament proposal of a transitional period is very much welcomed, because it ensures that we have sufficient time to ensure that we have an orderly and civilised divorce at the end of the process, where citizens’ rights are secured both for the eu citizens residing in the uk and vice versa, the uk citizens residing on the continent. i really look forward to a more dignified debate after this. i pay attention to mr farage, who has now left the room, but he is not willing to discuss brexit; he wants to discuss anything but brexit. i think it should have been raised as a point of order, and he should have been made aware by you, mr president, to actually pay attention to what the subject is for today.
madam president, i would first like to say one thing about a mistake we must not make here in this chamber: mr farage and his friends might be british, but they are not the representatives of great britain. (applause) great britain is much greater than that. they are loving the conflict and the tensions, and they are, for me, contradictory to what the united kingdom is, and has been, for europe. i think brexit is a sad thing. it is not win-win; it is lose-lose. in the negotiations we need to be counterparts, but in the future we need to be partners. that means that this is time for negotiation more than agitation. we need the british government to get its act together, and we need to secure the rights of citizens, secure a way to deal with the bill and proceed with the irish issue. but in day-to-day life, regarding prosperity and our big challenges, we need to be serious about how we manage this divorce and create a new partnership.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it should come as no surprise to anyone that these negotiations on a divorce between the eu and the uk are going badly. because it is a weird divorce. nobody's moving out. it will remain 20 miles between dover and calais. our future and our destiny are and will remain intertwined. britain will still be living here, but have kind of said they want to move down to the basement, maybe live on the couch. i have been following trade negotiations in this parliament for 13 years. this is basically the exact same thing, but in reverse. because in trade negotiations, everyone wins. you're removing trade barriers and borders that benefit everyone, no matter who's in it. but here we do the opposite. here we are negotiating the trade barriers and the boundaries we will cross - a negotiation in which everyone is a loser. the question is how much. and we don't know that, because the uk actually has no idea what trade barriers or borders they want to put in place. but to succeed, we must always have the same thing: a clear mandate and broad political support. the eu is an example in this. we have a clear mandate and the broadest overall commitment, but britain must pull itself together. because there is no agreement even in the government on what it wants to achieve, and even less does it seem clear that it has parliament or the people with it. get a hold of yourself!
madam president, i would like to thank you. as many have pointed out today, it is unfortunate that the fourth round of negotiations has not resulted in sufficient progress on the rights of citizens, the situation in ireland and northern ireland and the uk's financial obligations within the eu. it is therefore right that we call for concrete progress in these areas. but at the same time: why do we speak of the british as a unified collective that made an informed choice when they voted yes to brexit? we know that's not true. i myself, like my colleague mr lavrilleux, for example, feel great sadness at the prospect of the british leaving. i also remember what michel barnier said when you started your work: "beware of hatred", you said. it'll come up after a while. so let us keep a decent tone while demanding results in the negotiations.
madam president, although we saw some openings in the prime minister’s speech in florence, many key issues remain to be solved. the most important among them is the question of the irish border. i am from the western balkans myself and i know perfectly well that a hardening of the border will lead to tensions and nationalist sentiments. we cannot pretend that the whole solution to the problem is to promise not to have a physical border. in bosnia there are no physical borders, but nationalism and tensions certainly do exist. in order to prevent it, you need to make sure that no new mental, cultural and religious borders are established, and that demands much clearer thinking than has been the case so far. therefore, the message that we send here is very clear: the time for political games should be over. it is crucial for prime minister may to translate her commitments into tangible actions. we need to move forward before the tensions and conflicts arise. the citizens of northern ireland need clarity, action and responsible leaders.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the speakers for their contributions. from this debate i conclude that we share the opinion that it is important to continue supporting the republic of moldova with its reform agenda. secondly, i understand your concerns in relation to the rule of law and democracy. let me assure you that the european union will consider thoroughly any decision on future assistance and that these decisions will be consistent with messages transmitted as part of our political dialogue. at the same time, i would like to repeat our position about the partnership. the partnership with the european union is not about spheres of influence and geopolitics. we do not ask our partners to pick sides – they do not have to choose between us and other global powers. this is not how our partnership works. our partnership is about improving the lives of our citizens inside the european union, and of citizens in moldova. it is a partnership for, not against. it is about the economy and trade. it is about democracy, human rights, the rule of law and, of course, the fight against corruption. it is with this attitude that we are heading towards our eastern partnership summit next month. thank you for your attention and for this fruitful discussion.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the commission’s position is absolutely clear. we cannot accept or tolerate any kind of violence, including forced marriage. but it is a complex problem which cannot be solved at one stroke. as for question 1, we are participating in comprehensive programmes to put an end to harmful practices such as child marriage. their impact can only be measured in the long term over generations. for example, in 2016 the eu contributed eur 6 million to the unicef united nations population fund global programme to accelerate action to end child marriage. this programme works at local, national and regional level and targets the communities of 12 countries. the objective is to improve access to services, strengthen enforcement mechanisms, increase girls’ empowerment and challenge social norms, so that girls can fully enjoy their childhood and grow up to control their own destiny. in 2019, when this programme comes to an end, we shall evaluate its quantitative impact using the quantitative indicators. the same applies to other ongoing projects to address child marriage which we are supporting in tanzania, niger, mali, malawi, lesotho and sudan. beyond this targeted support, the eu also contributes to programmes dedicated to social protection, access to education, violence against children, and access to justice and health, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. they also contribute to a reduction in child marriage. as for question 2, accession to the istanbul convention is a priority for the commission. the criminalisation of forced marriage based on the definition of the istanbul convention will remain a matter of member state competence. however, many victims of forced marriage, especially underaged, may fall victim to other serious forms of gender-based crime, such as rape. this offence is criminalised in all eu member states. the victims’ rights directive provides for targeted and integrated support for victims with specific needs, such as victims of sexual violence, victims of gender—based violence and victims of violence in close relationships, including trauma support and counselling or shelter for victims in need of a safe place. the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention would further strengthen the union’s framework on protection of and support to victims of forced marriage and other crimes covered by the convention. for instance, the istanbul convention will require the eu to ensure that resident status is granted to victims of gender-based violence, which could be independent from that of the spouse, and that victims may obtain the suspension of expulsion. the convention requires that gender-based violence against women be recognised as a form of persecution under the geneva convention and that the obligation of non—refoulement is applied to women victims in need of protection where they might be subject to torture or inhuman treatment or punishment. as regards sexual and reproductive health, the istanbul convention provides for a prohibition of forced abortion and sterilisation, for instance, abortion without full and informed consent. it does, however, not contain provisions regarding rights to safe abortion or as to whether abortion in unsafe conditions constitutes violence against women. on 25 november 2016 the commission launched a year of focused actions to combat violence against women. the focused actions, which involve local, national and eu-level initiatives, aim to mobilise, connect and support all relevant stakeholders in combating the problem and to ensure the dissemination of good practices across the eu. let me now answer question 3. married minors are also considered vulnerable under the eu asylum acquis and therefore benefit from special rights and procedural guarantees. it will often be the case that the law or practice of the responsible member state does not recognise an adult spouse as being responsible for a minor spouse. therefore, if the minor spouse travels only with the adult spouse and is not accompanied by her parents or tutor, the married minor would often be considered unaccompanied and thus in need of special guarantees. moreover, non—consensual child marriages are prohibited by international law. the authorities of the member state of arrival have an obligation to verify if the minor has consented to the marriage. if this is not the case, the child must be offered protection. this issue is to be distinguished from the separate matter of whether the legal effects of the marriage undertaken in the country of origin or prior to arrival in the eu can or cannot be recognised according to the national law of the member state responsible.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, today we give a voice to the 750 million girls forced to marry around the world. let’s say together: enough is enough! child marriage is child abuse. girls are exposed to rape, domestic and even honour violence. it can be devastating for their health, with serious risks concerning pregnancy and infections. child marriage is a crime recognised under the istanbul convention on violence against women. once again, i call on all member states to ratify and enforce the convention, to combat impunity and protect girls. many girls seeking asylum arrive in europe married – in sweden alone there are132. authorities must consider the best interests of the child. a child is first of all a child, and we cannot have parallel communities in europe where child marriage is tolerated. there is no tradition and no culture that can justify child abuse. girls forced to marry are forced out of school. desperate parents give away daughters to older men to save them from poverty. but on the contrary, early marriage condemns girls to poverty and discrimination. education is the best chance for girls to be empowered. no child should be deprived of their childhood. civil society plays a key role. the girls not brides global partnership, unicef, ombudsmen and many others in civil society deserve more support. president trump’s global gag rules will affect projects for thousands and of girls who are victims of child marriage. europe should step in and provide resources. i call on the high representative on the commission to do more in all eu external action to eliminate child marriage by helping countries to adopt and to enforce legislation. we need to combat stereotypes, change mentalities, work with family and community leaders and break the vicious circle of submission and violence. mr president, in conclusion, as author of the european people’s party group resolution and co-chair of the intergroup on children’s rights, i call for your support. this parliament should join forces and send a clear message – we are committed to a zero-tolerance policy on child marriage. it is time to act.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. child and forced marriage is an abuse and a symptom of the sick norms that exist in our societies. this is unacceptable. children have an inalienable right to be children. girls and boys around the world must be allowed to develop at their own pace into confident and strong individuals. only then can we ensure sustainable development and living space for all. it is disheartening to look at the figures: 37,000 underage girls are married off every day. there are 14 million child and forced marriages every year. if we are to meet the enormous challenges facing the world, we must empower women. women must be given economic self-determination and the right to their own bodies. for every child marriage prevented, there is a decreased risk of children dying in childbirth and of difficult births leading to illness and infant mortality. it is the eu's duty to combat the phenomenon of child and forced marriage on all fronts. member states must ensure that authorities have the knowledge to recognise the phenomenon and the resources and legal support to deal with the situation. the message is clear: we do not accept child and forced marriages.
blue-card question. – mr president, i see that the members of the european conservatives and reformists group and my colleague mr škripek are saying that there is nothing to do and that it is behind closed doors, but there is a legal instrument. it is called the istanbul convention on violence against women, which also criminalises child and early marriage. why did you all vote against it? this is the instrument – or do you only care if this practice is done in your member state or not? (applause) it is a global phenomenon affecting millions of girls, and with access to the istanbul convention we have more legal tools and more comprehensive means to deal with it in the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. children are not supposed to have children. and children should not marry. meanwhile, we live in a world where 27 girls are married off every minute, often against their will. child marriage poses an extremely serious risk of mortality for girls, especially in relation to complications associated with pregnancy and the birth of these children. the un has a goal to eliminate child marriage in the world by 2030, and as the number continues to rise, here we have a responsibility as a welfare state to make sure that we do our best to stop and prevent child marriage. we must not turn a blind eye to this oppression, we must stand up for the rights of children and fight back hard. in sweden we hear reports that as many as 70,000 young people are in danger of being married off. we also know that the large immigration to europe has caused many of the children coming to be married to older men, many times the marriages have taken place shortly before coming to europe because it was thought that this would lead to greater chances of getting asylum, so my question is how do we in these cases ensure the best interests of the children, do we really dare to investigate the situation of the children or do we turn a blind eye because we are cowards and think we are violating someone's culture or tradition. but let me remind you that this is nothing but a terrible oppression. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) yes, we have ratified the istanbul convention in sweden and i think it is important that all member states do so. like i said, it may not just be up to the istanbul convention to fight this. we have to be bold on a national level to say no, because we often turn a blind eye and look through our fingers because we're so afraid of offending someone. so i think we're gonna have to work from a lot of angles on this one.
mr president, like my colleagues, i am very worried about the situation for human rights defenders and human rights activists. i have met numerous women’s rights activists who are subject to extreme persecution at the moment. but today i want to raise the specific situation of lgbti persons being persecuted. i am sure you have seen the reports of this increasing persecution: of 33 or more youths being detained, of sexual assault in detention and of violence. it is also a question of when the authorities perpetrate this kind of violence. public violence and hate speech against lgbti people in egypt are rampant and increasing, and we have reports on that. the eu must act against these human rights abuses. to say that we are passing on the message, mr commissioner, is just not enough: you don’t pass on the message about human rights – you demand that human rights be respected! we need a different kind of partnership.
mr president, the presence of the fossil lobby at the climate conferences is a huge conflict of interest that we need to address. soon the world will be going to bonn. politicians, scientists and civil society will be there to seek solutions to the climate crisis. but the dirty coal and oil lobby will also be there and they have an economic interest in trying to delay, water down and prevent those solutions. we need strong rules on conflicts of interest if we are going to be able to limit emissions so that we can stay below 1.5°c. we have no time to waste. this is about our children’s future. the fossil lobby should not be allowed to pollute climate policy. i urge you all to support the green group amendment on conflicts of interest.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the climate change we are seeing in large parts of the world will contribute to political instability and an escalation of refugee flows. by 2050, the un estimates that the world could have 200 million people displaced by climate change. notes with concern that some 21,5 million people were forced to leave their homes between 2008 and 2013 due to natural disasters; it is important that we take the displacement and migration of people as a result of climate disasters seriously. we need to evolve the un systems on migration and the existing definitions and tools so that they also include this category of refugees. gender equality is conspicuously absent from the various processes under way in the paris agreement. this is a serious mistake. the un green climate fund will play an important role in financing adaptation needs in the most affected countries. at the bonn climate summit, it is hoped that an action plan for greater gender equality will be negotiated and adopted. i therefore call on the commission and our member states to help bring about a decision in bonn on an ambitious action plan with specific objectives, because we can forget about the climate if we do not invest in gender equality.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 march 2014 and that the agreement was signed on 27 march 2014. this is very unfortunate and reflects ryanair's very problematic business model, which is based on obscene working conditions for staff and indirect public support from regional airports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's air transport policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet the needs of the citizens of europe. now we must ensure that the hundreds of thousands of travelers who have been affected are taken care of. but in the long term we must ensure that legislation is strengthened so that cabin crew have good working conditions and travellers can book their flights safely. and finally: air travel must start paying for its climate impact, and the fossil fuel subsidies on air travel must end.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm going to speak swedish because it's one of those subjects that i feel so strongly about. hormone-disrupting substances are found in toys for children, food packaging, clothing, various types of plastic, and pesticides that we ingest through food. these chemicals can lead to several types of ill health, including problems with childbearing, cancer, and the risk of diabetes. young children and foetuses are particularly vulnerable and sensitive to these chemicals, and the effects show up later in life. however, there is currently no proper regulatory framework in the eu to provide comprehensive and complete protection against endocrine disruptors. more than seven years ago, the commission was given the task of developing scientific criteria for identifying chemicals that are endocrine disruptors. i am sorry to say that the commission has handled this very badly. after several years of delay and after being condemned by the european court of justice for failure to act, a proposal has now been presented. the question we have to ask ourselves is: does this proposal live up to its purpose of protecting the environment and public health? i'm afraid the answer is no. we have given the commission the task of identifying which chemicals are endocrine disruptors - nothing more than that. the commission's proposal is neither compatible with eu law nor adequately protects human health and the environment against endocrine disrupting substances in pesticides. this is a fundamental principle of the rule of law. the commission has no right to infringe eu law with this proposal. it is a violation of the commission's mandate. but the commission's proposal for an exemption for pesticides is designed precisely to attack the hormonal systems of pests. so they're by design hormone-disrupting. however, the commission does not consider that pesticides should be classified as endocrine disruptors, even if they also affect animals other than the target group. we're talking here, for example, about bees, butterflies, bumblebees, crabs and crabs, all of which have hormone systems that can be affected by these pesticides. it's not scientifically defensible. the commission has also proposed that the criteria be used in other areas. it is therefore all the more important that these criteria are good. we demand that the commission do the right thing. remove this unlawful exception and come back with a new proposal without delay. children and bees take precedence over the economic interests of individual stakeholders.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the main issue for the forthcoming council meeting is clearly the events in catalonia and the delayed action of the commission. we all saw the images on television and in newspapers of spanish military police indiscriminately beating and kicking people, young and old, until blood flowed. this is happening in an eu country and democracy is expected to be the guiding light. it is nothing but a disgrace what has happened, and the commission's fear and cowardice in criticising spain for this brutal excess of violence is embarrassing to watch. of course, respect for the spanish constitution is necessary, but the commission should strongly condemn the total lack of respect for human rights and the brutal violence used. i have just heard mr weber say that dissent must be fought. you chose to use the word "extremists" to describe people who disagree with you. the same message is used by most federalists in this house. if i were to use the same rhetoric to people who don't share my views, i'd be standing here calling all of you extremists. you have a complete misunderstanding of what democracy is. democracy means being able to listen to the arguments of those with whom you do not share the same views.
mr president, in my capacity as rapporteur for the reform of the dublin regulation, i am convinced that this house is about to find a common position, gathering broad support for backing bold, ambitious and realistic reforms. however, we need our counterparts in the council – and i would ask them to stop pandering back to domestic egoism – to engage with us in building a common european asylum system which is fit for purpose. for too long, the council has tried to find unanimity. instead, it should try to find solutions to fix the broken, collapsed common european asylum system. now it is high time to find solutions, and also one position. to the estonian presidency, i would like to say: stand firm. knowing some member states, you will never find unanimity, but a qualified majority is perfectly good enough, according to the treaties. in my negotiating team, we are determined. we need to find a solution based on the fair sharing of responsibilities, aiming at taking back european control of migratory flows and ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the european council must underline at its meeting that the european union is a union of laws. they apply to all and everyone. to national governments as well as to local governments, authorities and citizens. that is the only way to stability, peace and dialogue. secondly, the defence issue. we need to develop a defence facing all the challenges we see today, where russia is not only a test case, but also a real challenge. on all the levels of threats coming therefrom, we need to strengthen our capabilities and our defence. thirdly, the digital challenge. we cannot only talk about it, we need to ensure that we can be in the lead, phasing out not only roaming charges, but also roaming by pan-european networks, on mobile broadband, enabling other facilities and a scale of economy that can make us the leaders. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is a very simple question and it has a simple answer: laws are for everyone. there is no party and no colour attached to laws. we all need to abide by the laws. i can be critical of bad policies wherever they come from – whether they belong to my party group or your party group – but the main thing is that the laws are decided here. we have a court and a legal system to implement them, and that must be respected. i continue to call on the commission to ensure that the laws are implemented, and followed. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the idea of a fiscal compact is not as new as it sounds here, because it is a very old rule: if you spend more money than you have then you will in the end cause problems either for yourself or for someone else. that is why, in solidarity and in respect for others, you need to have stability in your economy. if you spend more than you get, then you either need to reform and spend less, or reform and earn more. a third alternative is of course to borrow money, and if you borrow money then your deficit will increase and your debt will increase. i say this because reality is much more important than the rules. the rules we have are important, but reality is the really worrisome thing, because if you are increasing your deficit and cannot finance your public spending then it is the deficit and the increased deficit that is creating the austerity, not the rules. the rules are there in order to hinder the road to austerity. the rules are there to make us keep together around a sound and stable economy, sound and stable public finances, and i can never understand, if we look at all the experiences we have had, when countries – sweden at the beginning of the 1990s, others in recent times – have nearly not been able to finance the public spending, not because of the rules but because of reality. that is why we need a fiscal compact in order to safeguard our economies.
in writing. – the european court of auditors in its special report last year with the title ‘eu policy initiatives and financial support for roma integration’, stated that although roma integration is explicitly mentioned in the european structural and investment funds, additional efforts are required from the commission and the member states to make sure that this will result in projects which contribute to roma integration on the ground. as the court of auditors report says, the commission should make sure, when checking the relevant operational programmes, that the supported projects are inclusive and fight segregation. segregational practices should be clearly described and explicitly excluded from funding under the structural and investment fund framework and particular attention should be paid to education and housing projects. unfortunately, we can see that most mainstream programmes systematically fail to reach out to young roma (for example the yei or erasmus+). we would, therefore, call on the court of auditors to check the performance of eu employment and education programmes in a more thorough way and on a regular basis.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating commissioner jourová and also all the 20 member states which have now chosen to join the joint prosecutor's office. i regret to say that i also want to take some time to address the countries which have opted not to join. unfortunately, this is the case for sweden, my own country, which, along with countries such as hungary and poland, has now chosen to distance itself from joint law enforcement and crossborder cooperation in order to back away from the future. that's what it's all about, not offensively trying to fight back against the transnational criminal networks. i think it's very important that they join as soon as possible. i would urge the swedish government to do so. the establishment of the public prosecutor's office is very important. criminal gangs know no national boundaries and the law enforcement authorities in europe must now do the same, i.e. work across borders and not let national borders preclude effective law enforcement. that is how we can build a safer europe for all of us.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for giving me an answer today to the question i put during the last plenary session. it was about the swedish journalist of turkish origin, hamza yalcin, who was imprisoned in spain pending possible deportation. as far as i know, he's been released pending a final decision. interpol is an organization created for the purpose of preventing and prosecuting crime. international police cooperation is necessary and welcome. but we have a problem when the system is abused for political ends, and we see more and more examples of this. it is very important to emphasise, as has been said here before, that this warning is not an arrest warrant and that interpol neither issues arrest warrants nor forces member states to arrest a person with a 'red notice'. each state makes its own assessment. particular care should be taken when dealing with persons who have any form of protected status. i would also like to emphasize that it is important not only for those who have been granted refugee status, but also for those who have been granted protection on other grounds, because there are different levels and at different times - at least in swedish legislation we have had three or four different articles on protection grounds, but there is only one where you are granted refugee status under the un system, so to speak - so it is important that those who have been granted protection on other grounds are also given special consideration. it is also extremely important that the member states really push for interpol to use this system, so that the member states follow it; i would say that.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. one in 20,000 people in the world has albinism, and in nigeria alone there are about 2 million of them. discrimination against persons with albinism is a serious problem in sub-saharan africa, but also in the rest of the world. some 600 attacks were carried out against persons with albinism in a total of 26 countries last year. in many cases, the reason has been the belief that their body parts have qualities that bring happiness and prosperity. a superstition that to us is completely absurd and that was thought could not live on in the 21st century. although a number of countries are indeed trying to stop these horrific attacks and trafficking in human body parts, in most cases there is no adequate legislation to actually prosecute the perpetrators. witness protection is also a necessary measure to encourage people to give evidence. it is imperative that the countries concerned take strong action to put an end to these murders and to this trade and to bring the perpetrators to justice. but the preventive work is just as important. awareness-raising efforts aimed at the general public are needed to increase knowledge, but also to provide information on albinism and why some individuals suffer from it. this is coupled with increased efforts to protect people with albinism. it may be about protective housing and it may be about increased police presence, but not least it is about working against the poverty and discrimination that this group suffers more than the rest of the population.
author. – mr president, i will speak swedish now. kollegor och kommissionär jourová! ett brådskande ärende som detta vill jag ge min röst till, för personer med albinism i malawi och i andra afrikanska stater. hur är då situationen för närvarande? jo, personer med albinism dödas och diskrimineras på daglig nivå. inte ens döda får vara ifred från dessa människor som nyttjar deras kroppsdelar. dessa människors liv står i riskzonen vart än de går. kvinnor och barn är ännu mer utsatta. barn styckas och deras kroppsdelar säljs. men hur kan vi då möta denna fasansfulla situation? jag ber om bättre lagstiftning och ett bättre genomförande av befintliga lagar och handlingsplaner. jag ber om bättre resurser och utbildning till polisen. eu:s institutioner kan inte blunda för detta. vi behöver en övervakningsmekanism som följer denna utveckling. det är dags att agera och reagera. jag vill också poängtera att strukturell diskriminering också måste mötas av större kunskap och ett förändrat synsätt. vi kan inte låta människor fortfarande dö på grund av sin hudfärg 2017. så malawi och andra afrikanska stater måste alltså skydda alla sina människor som befinner sig där. och vår uppgift är att se till att det blir så.
author. – mr president, dissent is not a crime. as a human rights defender, a feminist and coming from a minority myself, i must speak out against the dire situation in occupied crimea. today we highlight the cases of two crimean tatar leaders and one journalist. but the problem is much, much broader. there is a disturbing pattern of repression of independent voices. so often across the world minority groups are in vulnerable situations and we must secure their rights. we demand that the de facto russian authorities reverse their convictions. they must end the persecution and harassment of crimean tatars, human rights defenders, journalists, lawyers, and all other target groups. and as i said before, we must secure their rights.
mr president, the alarming reports about the abuse of human rights in crimea should not come as a surprise to anyone. yet again, we observe how the kremlin uses the judicial system as a tool to silence fair criticism and discontent among the people. any state established upon the rule of law must ensure the protection of minorities and freedom of speech. on these most fundamental human rights, the russian federation is falling short. as representatives of the eu, we must condemn the unjust sentencing and demand the immediate release of crimean tatar leaders, akhtem chiygoz and ilmi umerov. the charges against journalist mykola semena should be dropped. moreover, the eu must condemn the persecution and unfair policies against crimean tatars and continue to defend the european security order as we have known it since world war ii.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? my image of the maldives was of atolls with white sandy beaches and swaying palm trees a little postcard-sized paradise. that's the image the maldivian government wants the world to see of the country. and they have succeeded. over a million tourists visit this island nation each year. there is another side, however, that the rulers prefer not to show: the harassment of dissidents and civil society, the imprisonment of journalists and parliamentarians on unjust grounds, the government of the maldives' desire to reinstate the death penalty, even for children under 18. as a parliamentarian and a feminist, i would say that a secure civil society and an independent press are necessary elements of a democracy. the death penalty is unthinkable under any circumstances and should be abolished, not reinstated. and to the maldives, i say: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. only then can we believe in your postcard-sized paradise.
mr president, i would like to thank you. do you know what the problem is with the european public prosecutor's office? when we talk about this, countries like sweden, malta, poland and hungary say, "oh, we don't want to give much power to the eu, that's making a federal europe", and so on. then, of course, the crime happens. then it turns out that you can't investigate it because it's transnational. then the same countries complain that the eu is not doing enough to fight crime, that the eu is not effective, and so on. it's just amazing. crime and crime are now transnational. it's done by the gangs that move across borders and exploit our weakness, our inability to fight such crimes. if we want to combat it - and this is about trafficking, drugs, smuggling, arms smuggling - we must cooperate at european level. the fact that sweden has chosen to remain outside this cooperation is completely incomprehensible to me.
the questioner. president. - the debate is closed. in december 2015, the council adopted conclusions on the promotion of the social economy as an important driver of economic and social development in europe. it was a milestone, it was the first time that the member states in the council had reached conclusions on this sector. it did so because it sees the potential of this sector in terms of the social economy, which covers a wide variety of business models cooperatives, of course, non-profit associations, mutual enterprises, foundations and they play an important role in achieving several of the eu's objectives. so it is unanimously agreed by the 28 countries in the conclusions. they also say that this sector contributes to smart and sustainable growth for all. smart and sustainable growth with decent jobs, social cohesion, social innovation and environmental protection. this is no small sector in europe, there are two million companies in this sector. they employ over 14.5 million people and account for 8% of the eu's total gross domestic product. social economy activities are always profit reinvestment, driven primarily by social and environmental objectives and not primarily by profit distribution to passive owners. this allows these companies to set a good example in tackling some of our common challenges in europe. they create high-quality jobs, support people's integration processes and promote an economy based on democratic participation and this is not least important. this is something that parliament has emphasised in the past, not least in the report on a european pillar of social rights. this sector is of immense importance at all levels. local, because here people are mobilized for social cohesion in democratic structures. as a former mayor of my hometown, i know how important the nonprofit forces are, how important the cooperatives are, how important the will of the people is to create a good community locally. a municipality like mine wouldn't survive without this sector. it means a lot regionally, creating jobs and growth. many regions also have this sector as a strategic asset in their development work. globally, this sector also means a lot, as we have seen during the financial crisis. and many people now say, even the oecd and others, that this sector has a stabilizing effect on a market economy that is liberal and may not always be able to be as stable as it should be. for example: there are studies that show that companies in this sector coped much better than many other sectors during the financial crisis. just look at the cooperative banks, which have reportedly coped with the crisis far better than many others. in 2016, the bratislava declaration on the social economy, signed by 10 member states, and also the report of the commission's own expert group, the geces group, called on the commission to develop a european action plan on the social economy. with these calls and with the unanimity of the council on these issues, the table made it easy for the commission to say: this way we go. in may 2017, a number of member states adopted the madrid declaration, which also calls on the commission to develop a european action plan in its 2018 work programme. it is to stimulate a sector which is actually promoting the social activities of europe and its capacity for innovation. in addition, in its opinion on start-ups and expanding enterprises, the economic and social committee called on the commission to bring together all existing and new initiatives in support of social enterprises by drawing up a communication containing an action plan for the social economy. there are many who want this plan of action. many people see that this sector could play a very active role in a europe that is growing, and growing on human terms. this sector could contribute much more than it does today. so my question is: what is the commission doing in response to these calls from parliament, from the council, from various member states to promote enterprises in the social economy? does the commission intend to draw up a social economy action plan in response to these requests?
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, commission, for your presence at this very important debate. i would also like to thank the commission for being very open and accessible throughout the process, where we dealt with very technical legislation, but where we were able to get quick answers to important questions to get the work going. first of all, it is important to highlight the new markets that we may actually see. it sounds like the end of the world is coming when i hear the right wing debating in here. but it's not like that at all. first of all, we should probably start by saying that we are not talking about absolute levels of prohibition that set barriers and limits. if you're from the uk and you want to allow 150 milligrams of cadmium in mineral fertilizer, you can actually do that. the difference is that you cannot sell it under the ce marking, which is the guarantee of what you can sell on the european market. that's what we're actually talking about. but some of them, it seems, are under very heavy pressure from an industrial lobby that wants to gain access to the whole european market. then we must ask ourselves: what's the average today? it's in the 34 milligrams. that's well below the 40 milligrams we're aiming to reach in three years. at the same time, several countries - the czech republic, slovakia, finland, sweden, hungary and others - already have much lower levels. three of them have 20 milligrams or 22 milligrams. well-functioning countries with a well-functioning agricultural industry. this clearly shows that it can be done. but then we have to have clear signals, and although i think that in our compromise here we are eroding a lot by extending the time horizon to 16 years, it may be a compromise i can live with to get this on track. the consequence, if we push 80 milligrams, is not about your domestic market, it's about what hungary will have to accept. that you're quadrupling their levels? what will finland have to accept? that you quadruple the cadmium level in their mineral fertilizer? we can't do that. we have to be more progressive than that. i thank the commission for the good cooperation and hope that we will have a good outcome in the vote.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their very good cooperation and commissioner avramopoulos for his contribution to the debate. we have now, together, despite the delay in the member states, brought this legislation to fruition. the number of new psychoactive substances continues to increase in europe, causing deaths. some 600 substances are now in eu databases, and there is no sign that the problem will diminish. unscrupulous criminals sell the substances, sometimes under misleading names and in uncontrolled doses. the result is potentially life-threatening substances, which can be bought by anyone. of course, the issue is being addressed in the member states, and good things are being done at national level, but to enable criminal groups to move beyond just moving between member states, european cooperation is needed. common databases and knowledge are necessary to identify new substances more quickly and to obtain solid information on their adverse health effects. what does the new legislation add? in particular, the package will simplify the procedure at eu level for assessing the possible adverse effects of a new psychoactive substance. it is easier to decide on a possible ban. the procedure will now be almost twice as fast as before. the new rules will also further reduce the time available to member states to implement the eu decision from 12 to six months. finally, the package will hopefully improve the exchange of information, not least between relevant eu authorities, in the eu-wide early warning and risk assessment system. all of this is extremely important. the sooner we can identify a substance and take action, the less spread. time is a factor and it is a matter of life and death in the long run. i welcome the fact that we are going to adopt this package tomorrow and i call on all member states to make full use of these instruments.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there has been a record increase in the number, type and availability of new psychoactive substances on the european drug market. michał boni and others have already mentioned the large number of substances currently under monitoring in the system, but the problem is that we are seeing a steady increase. the new psychoactive substances are a major public health challenge because they produce effects similar to those of traditional drugs but are not yet classified as drugs. these so-called 'online drugs' are easy to buy for anyone over the internet. some of these strong psychoactive substances have many serious and sometimes fatal consequences and are unfortunately used by many young people in parts of europe as cheap drugs. they are perceived as relatively safe and legal alternatives to established illicit drugs. it is estimated that eu citizens spend over eur 24 billion on illicit drugs each year, that at least 6 800 people died from overdoses in the eu in 2014 and that an estimated 17.8 million young adults used drugs in the past year. the human and social costs of drug abuse are very high. this requires a more rapid and effective common system than the current one to limit the availability of such drugs in our societies. we therefore welcome the agreement reached by the institutions, now at an advanced stage, on the new legislative package, which aims to significantly speed up the procedure at eu level for risk assessment and decision-making on control measures. we also support the decision to make the legal basis public health - we think it is more natural - rather than the internal market, and we are in favour of the more scientific approach in the proposals to investigate the various effects of new substances. as i said, the negotiations have been going on for more than four years now and we have no more time to lose. we need to act quickly, efficiently and in a coordinated manner.
mr president, the ongoing elections in kosovo and macedonia and in the other western balkan countries clearly show that these countries are actually solving their serious problems in a serious way. quite recently, we had the constitutional crisis in macedonia and actually they solved it. on the other hand, we, the european union, are not doing much more than talking. if you look at the money we are giving these countries you will find that the member states that are receiving money are receiving eur 3000 per capita. in the western balkans the best case figure is eur 300, and in the worst case the figure is eur 4 per capita, in bosnia-herzegovina. this is actually shameful. if we want enlargement, and if these countries are seriously doing something towards enlargement, then we have to play our part as well and increase that financial help.
madam president, migration and the need for reform of the common european asylum system was discussed last week in council. this was very timely, to say the least, not least since the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs adopted, on thursday, with a very large majority, our position on the necessary reform of the dublin regulation. i have managed to gather behind me and to unite this house in a very bold proposal, creating a truly european asylum system, and we have managed to do so through long negotiations and by listening to each other. now i think it is high time that you, in council, do exactly the same: listen to each other and start paying respect to each other, leaving national egoism behind. this belongs to history and not to the current situation in europe. we can never create a functioning common european asylum system as long as every member state is obsessed with their own national situation. we now need to create a fair system that works for all of europe, with all its member states. and such a system has to include automatic relocation of asylum-seekers and must be based on the principle of solidarity, as in article 80 of our treaties. the goal has to be to fix the asylum system, not merely to find some watered-down compromise that can reach unanimity in council. it is high time that you take a qualified majority vote on this, because otherwise we will never change reality. i welcome that council has signalled that it will continue working on this and set the goal of reaching a mandate before the spring. negotiations in trilogues will be long and difficult, but i look forward to opening those trilogues sooner rather than later. the european parliament has delivered, and it is now high time that you do the same. we owe it to the citizens of europe who expect this from us.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as regards the composition of the parliament, as donald tusk mentioned, i agree with donald tusk when he says that fewer countries should also mean fewer seats. it's common sense, and it's appreciated by the people, too. the summit in gothenburg is just around the corner, as we know. i think you all know that i am deeply critical of the eu, but i am also a pragmatic person. as long as my country sweden is a member, something must be done to stop the social dumping we see in the labour market. those who say that we have an orderly swedish labour market have probably not been out for long enough to visit the swedish labour market. nor have they probably seen how the domestic transport market, for example, is being broken up by foreign operators who are dumping wages into swedish companies. the construction industry is flooded with unscrupulous operators who exploit labor in a reckless manner. people are being sacrificed on the altar of profit, and i can't stand that. i would like to see sweden leave this house and this cooperation, but as long as we are here we must make sure that we put an end to this circus. you are welcome to come to sweden; when you are in our country you will compete under the same cost structure as swedish companies.
mr president, when the uk leaves the eu, it will leave a hole of 14-19% in the eu budget. it will be a major shock for some countries, especially net receivers. some governments in these countries, for example in hungary, are almost unwillingly part of the eu. they don’t like the union and they don’t like the criticism we are delivering from here, but they are laughing all the way to the bank. the question is, what will they do when there is no money in the bank? will they continue to laugh or will they reconsider their membership and, by doing that, cause the next crisis in the eu? there is no doubt that we have to reform the eu budget. we do not know the missing numbers, but we know that we cannot do business as usual. somebody was saying that we have to do less, but i beg to differ. we probably have to be more efficient and focus more, but it is time to start doing that now. the sooner, the better.
for the efdd group. president. - the debate is closed. yes, so there are 18 months left until the time comes for the next european parliament elections. i could not help but notice that a publication that was lying outside has now been brought out. it is written, among other things, about a more democratic europe, which is what we want to create. 33% say they have a positive image of the eu. that is a drop from the 42% who voted in the last election, and i am sure that this election will be bad too. there is a list of 11 things to do to make the eu more popular. you leave out, of course. you just bring the ppe, the s&d and the alde. you don't bring the ecr and the greens and of course not the efdd or the enf. and how do you justify macron being touted as the new leader of the eu, or is he already campaigning to replace jean-claude juncker in 2019? this is so bad, i get to show what i think about democracy in this house, and this is it [sound of a paper being torn]. there is no democracy in this house anymore.
madam president, as the chair of the conference of committee chairs i would like to thank you, vice-president timmermans, and all of the commissioners for a very good and fruitful cooperation that has improved throughout the years. on a practical note, i hope that the commission will expedite any remaining legislative proposals and present them to the co-legislators at the latest by april 2018 to give us a fair chance to conclude before the end of this mandate. it is abundantly clear from the eurobarometer of may this year that citizens expect the union to deliver in areas like migration, defence, the environment and foreign affairs – more than two—thirds of citizens have asked the european union to deliver on that. we also know that 81% of citizens underline the importance of the free movement of citizens in the union: speaking about migration, last week this house managed to unite 751 meps from five groups that consist of more than 200 political parties. council, though, was not present here today. they could not up until now unite 21 ministers. i find that quite remarkable, and i urge the commission to give them a push in the right direction when it comes to pushing this area to a qualified majority vote.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. tomorrow we will vote for a much stronger european legislation on health and safety at work. it is not just any legislation, but one which is about protecting workers, millions of workers in europe, from carcinogens and mutagens. we've waited ten years for this. the previous commission did not get much done, unfortunately. fortunately, the current commission has acted differently. we have therefore welcomed the commission's proposal on the part of parliament and in committee we have done everything we can to make it even stronger. the facts are as follows: more than half of all work-related deaths are linked to cancer. cancer is the single most serious and widespread cause of death related to the working environment. we can't have it like this. not in a modern society that values human beings. we must not accept competition with bad conditions, with dangerous working environments; it can never be a means of competition for the eu. we're gonna compete to be the absolute best and the best at what we do, not people dying from their jobs. in addition to the enormous personal cost, the estimated cost to the member states is €334 billion annually. so that's what cancer costs. it is a senseless loss, not only in human life but also in social cost. tomorrow we will be voting on 13 new limit values for carcinogens and mutagens in the workplace. there are 11 new items and two items that are being revised. these are substances found in a wide range of industries and workplaces, including construction, wood, paper, in the production of everything from solvents, paper, furniture, toys, cars, airplanes. hexavalent chromium, quartz dust and hardwood dust are some of the most important substances now regulated, given the number of workers exposed to these very limits. the commission's proposal was a major improvement on the original proposal, but parliament succeeded in demanding further improvements in the negotiations. that, mr president, is something to be proud of. we have stressed the importance of the precautionary principle throughout the process. we must put the health and safety of our workers first. the commission proposed 13 new limit values, which alone will save more than 100 000 people over 50. that is a figure which does not even take into account the improved health checks or the limit values we have achieved in the negotiations. the health checks in the directive have now caught up with the asbestos directive. the european parliament has also called for the commission to take action to combat the spread of the virus. the agreement with the council also includes stricter limits for chromium and hardwood dust. these are the substances that cause such serious cancers as lymphoma and lung cancer. we also agreed that the commission will have to review legislation in the future to evaluate whether the directive should be extended to include substances that impair reproduction, that is to say substances that can harm fertility in both men and women and unborn children. it is my view and that of the committee that these substances are so serious that they should be covered by the strictest terms of the directive. the commission will come back to this, hopefully before the end of the mandate. i would like to emphasize the good cooperation which has been the basis for us now being able to adopt the revision of this directive. the proposal before us is the result of consultation with the social partners and researchers. i would therefore like to thank the commission, the council, the social partners, the researchers who contributed throughout the process and i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs in my own committee, in particular claude rolin of the ppe group who is now taking over as rapporteur for the second revision of this legislation. we cannot always work together in this house and we should not always have to, but we have. i think we have done that really well, provided that this legislation goes all the way. symbolically, i think it is important to come together and gather when you have a big and important task ahead of you, and we have done that.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to begin by saying that all the limit values included in our agreement are limit values which, on scientific grounds, already exist in some of the member states, usually the richest member states. this means that in those countries in the eu that have had a harder path to economic strength, they lack that protection. and so we are now proposing that the same level of ambition that we have in the richest parts of the eu should be in the whole of the eu. i say this in polemic with a member who is no longer here, who thought it was a misery that they should be forced into this non-cancer-causing exercise we are engaged in. this legislation is, as several of you have pointed out and as commissioner thyssen has also done, the first of many. on behalf of parliament, i can promise you that we will be very difficult. we'll be on the lookout for it to arrive as soon as possible, with as many important items as possible. i understand that commissioner thyssen said the fourth round for diesel. we will probably try to work towards an accelerated timetable for diesel, because it is one of those subjects which is of enormous importance and where the social partners are also deeply involved. but so far we've come a little bit. we have a lot of work to do, and we in the committee will continue to fight on this very concrete issue, where it is possible to make a tremendous difference by working together to save lives.
rapporteur. – mr president, my name is soraya post and i am a roma woman from sweden belonging to the sinti group. i was born condemned. i have been a human rights activist for 40 years. so in 2014, when i got elected to represent the swedish feministiskt initiative, i took on the mission of safeguarding the principles of democracy, of spreading and defending fundamental human rights, gender equality and the respect of the basic values of our eu treaties. one of my goals with this report is to place the situation of the roma on the political agenda and to make real, tangible change at last. the eu is at a very critical point at the moment, and the destiny of 12 million people is not a priority. this clearly goes against the values of the eu. but this neglect is not a new phenomenon. it has been going on for 800 years. and the result is that now, in 2017, the situation of the roma people is not better than in third countries. and, as i said, following my mission, i want to fight against injustice and inequality. this is not an easy task. the last time we had a debate on roma issues in this chamber in april, three meps took the opportunity to spread hate speech. and, although we have strengthened the rules of procedure of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament failed to react, failed to condemn and sanction hate speech. i was not very surprised. roma people have been neglected, discriminated against, stigmatised, excluded and dehumanised for 800 years. we have never been good enough for european societies to accept us as equal citizens with guaranteed equal access to our fundamental human rights. the result is clear to see in all the shocking reports of the eu agency for fundamental rights and ngos. anti-gypsyism, the specific form of racism directed against the roma, was first recognised in the european parliament in 2015 through our resolution. anti-gypsyism, however unconscious it might be, can be revealed in the eu acquis as well, which often fails to take into consideration the realities and challenges of roma, who are unable to enjoy the same rights and opportunities and the same level of protection as other eu citizens. until we manage to remedy anti-gypsyism, the root cause of the unacceptable situation that roma are still facing in europe in 2017, we will not see any improvement, even if the european commission initiates good programmes. is there a need to improve this situation? yes. is there a way to improve this situation? yes. is there a way out of mistrust from both sides? yes, of course there is. my report, which has been the first european parliament report addressing anti-gypsyism on a wide scale, lists 12 pages of demands and recommendations, of which i will only mention a few. we demand the setting up of truth and reconciliation commissions at member state and eu-level to acknowledge the persecution, exclusion and disownment of roma throughout the centuries: to document these in an official white paper and to make the history of roma part of the curricula in schools, which is crucial for creating trust. we deplore the violation of the right of roma to free movement. we also call on the member states of origin to take their responsibility to combat poverty and exclusion of all their citizens, and on the member states of arrival to increase cooperation across borders to combat discrimination and exploitation and prevent exclusion continuing in the country of arrival. we demand active, meaningful participation for roma at all levels. we call on the court of auditors to check the performance of eu programmes, as they seem to fail to reach out to the most disadvantaged. we call for compensation for roma women having been subject to forced sterilisation. we call for the continuation of an improved eu framework for national roma integration strategies after 2020. we call on the commission for the introduction of anti-discrimination indicators in the field of education, employment, housing and health, as anti-gypsyism undermines the successful implementation of the national roma strategies. and we call on the commission to treat anti-gypsyism as a horizontal issue and develop an inventory of practical steps to combat anti-gypsyism.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i want to thank you, soraya post. we are fortunate in parliament to have you leading this work. i am pleased to have led the work of the committee on gender equality, where we have produced recommendations that specifically address the vulnerable situation of women and girls. it is true that structural anti-gypsyism affects women and girls particularly hard. the situation is unacceptable, but above all, one can feel that what is most unacceptable is the absence of political action. that is what this report is trying to address. in the committee on equality we want to see targeted efforts to strengthen the rights and situation of roma women, and this is an important part of the political response to combat anti-gypsyism. we want to see investment in good health care, especially sexual and reproductive health and rights, good abortion care, good contraception, good maternal care. it should be taken for granted, but it's not today. children should have the right to attend school, even when they are travelling and working in sweden, for example. as i said, investing in roma women is an important and concrete way of combating structural anti-gypsyism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would also like to begin by thanking soraya post for a very good report and also the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. we have a lot to be ashamed of in europe in terms of how we have treated and in many cases still treat the roma in our countries. it is therefore important that we draw attention not only to the member states and the commission but also to ourselves to the prejudices that we have often learned from childhood. we need to understand where they're coming from in order to change. we must also recognize that the long discrimination the roma have suffered and suffer from has a price. the prize is primarily that we actually acknowledge what we have done and are doing and that we apologize for it. correction is essential to reconciliation and to building trust. an important step would be to designate 2 august as a day of remembrance for the victims of the holocaust and also to compensate the survivors. there is still much to be done in europe and in the world. today's debate does not solve the roma problem but it is a step towards a more inclusive and accepting europe, where roma are not allowed to be treated differently and where member state governments fulfil their obligations to treat all citizens equally. but to achieve results, we need stronger protection legislation based on the various conventions we already have and the eu's fundamental values. economic incentives have not helped so far, but perhaps what we need to work on most is a change of attitude on the part of us, the majority. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) of course, there are many examples of good practice. in sweden we have been very active, including with the white paper. but we have 800 or more years behind us in which we have much to be ashamed of and in which we have still not come to terms with our history, including for example compulsory sterilisation, etc. in some countries we have indeed taken a step towards this reconciliation, but there is still a great deal to be done. there are things that are good, that are going on, but there are a lot of things that we have to be ashamed of and that we still haven't apologized for.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is extremely timely that we have this comprehensive report on anti-gypsyism, which not only describes the problem but also comes with concrete ideas. the commission supports the creation and development of national roma platforms to ensure the inclusive involvement of stakeholders in both implementation and in monitoring. as you know, this year we launched the roma civil monitor project and it is supposed to promote civil society capacity building. today, over 90 ngos are involved. roma participation here is, of course, a key element. we also support the efforts of the european parliament and the proposal in the report to commemorate the roma holocaust, and we have called upon member states to commemorate this on 2 august. as you know, the commission has participated in several events on 2 august, but also 27 january, which is holocaust memorial day, in order to commemorate the victims of the roma holocaust, and i think that would be a good thing. lately, efforts have been made to try to improve the effectiveness of the different funds with increased roma participation, as well as increased efforts to make sure that they reach the intended recipients and to fight fraud in this regard. as you know, we have a variety of legal tools to fight discrimination and hate speech, and we will continue to do so. these are good, they are very good. we will continue to open infringement proceedings against those countries which discriminate, for instance, against roma children in education. we had a few other cases as well that we are looking at and we will continue to do so. that is the role of the commission and we will take that role very seriously. so, we have tools of many kinds, but as ms post correctly says, legal tools, laws, all that is important, but what is most important is people’s attitudes. so we need to keep on fighting hate speech and pure discrimination of course, that goes without saying. but what is also very important is awareness-raising, information, education, inclusion and measures to prevent daily prejudices and the stereotypes that also lead to hate speech and hate crime. in this fight there are a lot of things to do, but i think the report is a very important tool, and i want to thank ms post for the work that she has done.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all colleagues for their comments and for all their dedicated work. i would also like to show my gratitude to my shadows – bodil valero, cecilia wikström, marina albiol, pál csáky and branislav škripek – and their advisers, assistants, and the secretariat of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). i would also like to thank the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm), which gave a lot of input, so i feel very comfortable not putting all my energy into all that, because i know they will do their work. i am also very grateful for the input received from experts and ngos, who are working day by day to make the desperately needed changes. it is our obligation as politicians to safeguard the human rights of all people. otherwise, we cannot uphold the values of the eu or talk about democracy. all eu citizens have a responsibility to act and to react to injustice. we have to show will and commitment to make a change. twelve million roma are considered second-class citizens, and 800 years of human rights deprivation and harassment is enough. we cannot stay in the middle ages in 2017. i hope you all agree. so let us make this change together because we can only do this together, with huge trust in each other, if we want to make a change. i wanted to respond to mr dzhambazki’s input and tell him that i did not expect him to like my report.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. #metoo has been an eye-opener for many. that's fine, but we who work on these issues know that this is part of our lives, it's risk assessments we do, it's a constant border-setting that we do. #metoo also shows me that it's about sisterhood, and i want to give all the support to those who are vulnerable and vulnerable. we're gonna support each other and especially support those who are now talking about it and breaking the silence about what's going on in this house. i would like to give that support to my colleagues who are now breaking their silence, including those who are naming their perpetrators. #metoo, it's also important to see that these are structural issues, not as some in this house sometimes try to make out that it's about certain cultures or certain religions. no, it is a structural machismo problem here in europe, in our house, in our communities. the #metoo campaign also shows that we need to hold men accountable. if you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem. it's time to stop holding each other's backs. i say this to all my male colleagues: it's time to stop holding each other's backs. if you don't speak up and speak out when someone is harassing or behaving in a sexist way, then you're part of the macho culture problem. this is also a campaign for change. we are actually legislators and policymakers here in this house. we're making a change, and we're gonna start by cleaning up our own house and voting tomorrow on measures to address the abuses that have taken place here. the same here, we have to show that we are part of the change, that we are part of the solution.
madam president, i would like to thank you. #metoo. i'm not going to do that. yes, i have also been the victim of sexual harassment and abuse. it's very painful to see that person, powerful, continue as before. my overwhelming feeling right now is solidarity and joy. we're finally talking about these painful memories that we all share. we need to break the silence, and that's what we're doing today. i want to see more men who are role models in this fight. this is not a woman's responsibility. we need more men standing up in public space and saying stop when harassment and abuse is going on. we need more men to come forward and tell us about their abuse and their experiences as abusers. we also need more men to break destructive male norms that are about aggression, dominance, simply more gender equality in society, and that's really going to change our societies.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in our work as meps, it is of the utmost importance that we take all forms of discrimination, harassment and oppression very seriously and actually take action to combat this kind of violence. we have the power to legislate against discrimination, but we also have a major role in shaping public opinion as meps to actually say: that's enough! we're not going to be able to legislate away these behaviors completely. we therefore need to act through other channels to change the norms, structures and power relations that result in women being subjected to this form of oppression. i also want to be very careful about pointing out one thing. as we ask all those who have been subjected to various forms of discrimination and harassment to come forward, we should also be aware of the situation of the employees in our own house. all those who work for us, the members of the european parliament and the european parliament, must feel that they can tell their stories without risking being fired.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to express how proud i am of this chamber today. to you who really took your responsibility as politicians to vote in favour of no more exclusion of the 12 million eu citizens with roma ethnicity, it is a good start, taking your responsibility. thank you very much. i would also like to thank my shadow rapporteurs – pál csáky, bodil valero, cecilia wikström and marina albiol – and all the people included in this. for me it is a step forward; thank you very much. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let us be very clear on a number of points. first of all, despite all problems and challenges in europe, we are on the best continent – one of the best places – on the planet in which to live. this is naturally why a lot of people from all around the world would like to make our continent their home, in order to enjoy the freedom and prosperity that we all enjoy and that exist here. let us also be clear that this has not always been the situation. from the mid-1800s until 1920, about 1.5 million people from my country, sweden, or at that time one third of the population, left for the usa in order to escape difficulties such as religious persecution and poverty. secondly, human beings are migratory to the very core of our nature. if we see no prospect for the future where we are, we move. nevertheless, in the eu, we must obviously have a policy of regulated migration for the foreseeable future. anything else would be irresponsible, but it would be equally irresponsible to cut ourselves off from the rest of the world: we all live in a globalised village today. the right to asylum and international protection is an individual human right that every member state of the union has signed up to defend. the only way to find out if a person qualifies for international protection is for them to go through the asylum process. everyone that asks for asylum has the right to apply, but not everyone has the right to obtain international protection (asylum). public support for the asylum system will depend on our ability to complete the ongoing work on the common european asylum system, so as to put the eu’s house in order and make sure that the procedures are fair and efficient throughout all the member states. we must also do much better in returning those who do not qualify for international protection in a dignified manner. that would restore the credibility of the system. the most important measure to discourage people from dangerous trips across the mediterranean would be to say that it is difficult to obtain international protection. there are no shortcuts here: only hard work. we need to put a resilient common european asylum system in place, and once again to deserve the respect – and live up to the expectations – of the citizens out there.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in sweden, we call them undocumented. people who have had their asylum applications rejected over and over again and should have left our country, preferably the day before yesterday. the word "undocumented" can be confusing, because they have been given paper after paper stating that their asylum application has been rejected. these people who should have left our countries are, to their amazement, able to access our welfare services such as health care, dental care and, in some cases, social assistance, many times more advantageously than our poor, struggling pensioners. a reform that we in the sweden democrats are the only ones who want to repeal. we know that these people go underground and are often impossible to expel. they live in a shadow society where we know that many of them are working underground, committing crimes and committing acts of terror. just look who carried out the terrorist attack in stockholm this spring in which five people lost their lives. the person was living illegally in sweden and became radicalized. the authorities had no record of the person in question. each member state must speed up the expulsions, otherwise the risks i mentioned earlier will increase. we also need to do a better job of holding those whose asylum applications have been rejected. sweden cannot and should not be an atm for all the world's fortune seekers. the swedish government should act much harder immediately, otherwise we in the sweden democrats will replace them next year and do the job ourselves!
mr president, i am sorry, enf group, but this is neo-fascism and racism dressed up in suits. you should not be able to set the agenda or frame our political responses, let alone frame our future. you should stop putting people against each other and stop lying about migrants and refugees, and you should stop confusing migrants and terrorists. it is beyond all dignity and sense. smugglers exist because there is a lack of legal pathways. to externalise borders – in the way that some people here want to do – is not to save people. it increases death in the mediterranean and in the sahara. yes, the left wants other responses. we want to close detention centres, we want to stop chasing people who are in an irregular situation and to stop the obsession with deportations. we want to open more legal pathways. we have had two votes in parliament that point to the possibility of humanitarian resettlement and the shared responsibility for receiving more refugees in europe. now it is up to the council to deliver. to flee is not a choice. nobody is illegal.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission for its presentation, and also thank the shadow rapporteurs, who have been working very closely with politically very difficult items. stability needs a dynamic economy in europe. if we are to have stable societies and stable social development, we need to have a more dynamic economy that fosters growth. but a dynamic economy also requires stability in terms of public finances, legal certainty and opportunities for new enterprises, innovation and investment. it is important that, when raising the european union growth targets, we improve people’s living and social conditions. we will secure stability on the financial markets, but we will also lay the ground for the future competitiveness of the european economy, because if we cannot be in the lead, and if we cannot have the investments we need, then we will lose. we have an economic recovery going on in the european union, but it is slow and it is not enough. investments are not catching up, although it is very much based on a unique monetary policy. we have lower unemployment than back in the days of 2008 before the crisis, but on the other hand, the gdp per capita is not very much above what we had before the crisis. it is important to note that we have lower deficits, lower debts, more growth and lower unemployment. we should know first of all that this is not enough, but also that there are huge differences between the member states. some are still suffering from very high unemployment. some are still dealing with major deficits. we have very different performances in the economies of the european union. this proves one thing, and that is the good news. the good news is that we are not doing as well as we can. it would have been depressing if this was the best we could do. but we can do better. we see that through the differences, the fact that some member states are developing better as regards labour markets, employment and investment. for me and for us behind the report, this illustrates the need to have a look not only on the aggregated level, but also at each member state. we need to have cohesion in economic growth, and therefore we need to have cohesion in structural reforms. we need to have a target of potential growth of 3% for every member state in order to achieve 1% higher growth. we need to reform labour markets. we need to reform other markets, meaning more competition. we need to have budgetary reforms opening up for lower taxes, especially on jobs and investments, and we need to ensure that we in the european union can achieve an internal market fostering an economy that can be a global leader. we can achieve a lot if we look at the reality now and at the need for structural reforms and stability at the same time, then we will deliver splendid economic development for the citizens of the european union, but we need to take action. that is the main message in this report.
blue-card question. – mr valli, i would like to thank you for accepting the blue card. i couldn’t let that pass; when i listen to you, it is as if it is always the fault of someone else when a member state has economic problems. couldn’t you accept that all member states need to look at the reforms: budget reforms and structural reforms in order to achieve higher levels of growth? don’t you see that the differences between different member states tell you something that we need to do, that we cannot just spend and spend more than we have because we will not get more money by that?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for the fruitful debate we had today and i would like to acknowledge the work of the committees involved in the drafting of this report. hearing your views here today was useful and enlightening ahead of the start of the new european semester cycle. as i mentioned, in november we will issue the proposal for a recommendation on economic policy of the euro area. indeed, this recommendation, as a number of you have noted, will aim to identify common challenges for the euro area and will serve as a guidance for the subsequent formulation of country-specific recommendations. one of the key messages from the debate is that cyclical conditions are improving and the economic upswing is strengthening. there are still significant economic and social challenges, and there is no time for complacency. so, let me reiterate that we must create the conditions to support inclusive and balanced growth, further reduce unemployment and promote investment. we must strengthen the resilience of our economies and restart the process of economic and social convergence in the euro area. for this, the better use of our existing tools of economic policy coordination is essential, but not sufficient. the euro area is now much better equipped to face challenges than it was before the crisis, but we have to make sure that we address the remaining important gaps in our economic governance and the institutional state of the economic and monetary union. honourable president, honourable members, thank you once again and i look forward to continuing cooperation throughout the european semester cycle.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and not only the shadow rapporteurs, but all of those who have participated in this debate. i think there are mainly two lines that have been presented here. some think that we can solve the problems by spending more and ignoring the fact that sometimes there is no more money to spend. some underlined the need for fiscal stability and structural reforms. this goes rather broad, because in the agreement in the report we see the need for balancing some of those. but i would like to warn against those who always say that someone else has the responsibility when it does not go well in a certain member state. it is not about good luck. it is about good reforms, good management and good governance. sometimes, i would like not least the friends over there, but maybe also the friends over there, to think whether we are doing as well as we can. commissioner, i think that some of the good news that we can take from this debate is the fact that we are not doing as well as we can. we can do much better. we can set the targets for higher growth. each member state should have the target of a potential growth of at least three percent and make the reforms that can provide the jobs, the growth and the investment that can give europe a lead. i think it is time for us not only to take action, but also time to take responsibility. that applies to all of us – none less and none more – but we all need to have the courage to make the reforms we need for a stronger europe.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it should be a matter of course for the eu to sign free trade agreements with two like-minded countries such as australia and new zealand. after all, these are two of the very few countries that face the full customs wall of the eu. they're two of the very few countries that we don't have a treaty with. other such countries are russia, china, taiwan and north korea, and australia and new zealand do not deserve to be in that context. the major conflict issue we have is, of course, how to deal with sensitive sectors. this resolution requires us to exclude sensitive sectors, but i think that would be completely wrong. i understand if you want to exclude sensitive products, but sectors? we know what we are talking about: the agricultural sector. i think we need to have more confidence when we talk about agricultural trade in the european parliament. we are the world's largest exporter of agricultural products. we have so far won on trade in agricultural products. i am convinced that we will continue to do so in the future, especially with australia and new zealand. that is why i suggest that we look at it positively, rather than worrying about trade with australia and new zealand.
blue-card question. – i would just like to pose one question to the last speaker. i wonder if you are aware of the fact that france, which you represent, is a net exporter of agricultural products, and yet you seem to want to roll back agricultural trade in general as you think it doesn’t benefit the farmers. but don’t you think the french farmers happen to be one of the biggest winners, due to the fact that you are one of the biggest exporters? who do you really represent when coming with such claims?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, as so many of you have said we are talking about two friends and allies – new zealand and australia – who share not only values, our commitment to rule of law, human rights and progressive trade, but also a strong commitment to upholding international organisations and global rules when it comes to trade. and in this world today that is not negligible: we need friends like that. our current exports to these countries are more than our exports to canada, and they can be much bigger. we have done very thorough preparatory work with both australia and new zealand: they are aware of the debate here in europe; they are aware of our sensitivities; they are aware of the political discussions in some of the countries relating to trade. of course we cannot exclude the whole agricultural sector – that makes absolutely no sense – but we are aware of the sensitive parts of this. but it needs to be put in perspective: it is worth noting that new zealand and australia already today benefit from preferential access to the eu for sensitive products because of wto quotas. and while for beef the small country-specific quotas are almost entirely used, the use of quotas for sheep meat and dairy have declined the past years – and that means that australia and new zealand have found new, other, more attractive markets for their exports, and have diverted their exports increasingly to other countries in asia, where they have trade agreements. in the case of new zealand, about two—thirds of our imports are agricultural goods. sheep meat makes one—third of eu agricultural imports from new zealand, and it already today enters duty—free as a result of a historical and very large tariff—rate quota. in the case of australia, agriculture is less than one—sixth of our total imports, and the biggest import is oilseed – canola – mostly used for biodiesel production in the eu. we actually have a growing surplus in agricultural trade, and especially in high-value added processed agricultural products. so we do have sensitive products – absolutely – and there are ways to deal with that, with tariff rate quotas, phasing—ins, etc. but we also have offensive interest, and not least if we can get new zealand and australia to accept the geographical indications which mean so much for our agricultural sector. on transparency: yes, you can rely on the commission – we will do this in utmost transparency, continuing the tradition to publish documents and to liaise with you in different areas. we sent the draft mandates from the commission directly to the national parliaments so that they can start yesterday looking into them, setting up the different committees or sectors, etc., to be able to follow closely these relations and these negotiations. of course they should be involved. they don’t necessarily have to vote in the end, but they should be involved, much more than in the past – that is a national responsibility as well. and, as you know, we are setting up a permanent advisory group for all our trade agreements where businesses, trade unions, environmental organisations and consumer organisations will be involved, because we do want to listen to their advice, and that is part of the new, more inclusive trade policy. new zealand and australia are, of course, two different countries: different traditions, different politics. we started the process at the same time. we have finished the scoping. we finished the commission’s work of proposing the mandate at the same time, and i guess – but i’m not sure – that the council will allow us to start the negotiations at the same time, as you have chosen to deal with the report at the same time. but each country will have their own path of negotiation. if we are ready with one country then we will conclude with that country; it will not have to wait for the other one. and, as i said, in this process rest assured that the european parliament will be fully aware. thank you very much for this debate, and i hope that you vote wisely tomorrow morning.
rapporteur. – mr president, on behalf of the rapporteur, daniel caspary, i would like to thank ms malmström for her presentation. one thing that i am a little bit sad about – and which is sad about this debate – is the fact that it does not in any way reflect the trade that we have today with australia or new zealand. 99% of this debate – maybe a little more – was on agriculture, but if we take australia – that everybody is concerned with – around ten percent of our trade with australia is agriculture. and do you know what? in agricultural trade with australia, we are winning. we import around eur 1.9 billion worth of agricultural products from australia, but we export eur 3.1 billion worth of agriculture products. so those of you who are set on voting tomorrow to exclude a sector – the agriculture sector – please think twice. think of what we could be losing. we live in dramatic times. in the united states of america, donald trump has withdrawn from his commitment to do free trade in the region. in dramatic times, when the winds of change are blowing, some build walls and others build windmills. let’s be optimistic, not protectionist, when we do this. if not, europe will be losers and that is not at all what i want us to do in trade policy.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. we're now discussing air travel and how consumers aren't getting the information they deserve. i also wanted to bring up the climate aspect of this issue. once again, customers are being squeezed by the greed of the airlines. charging unreasonable fees for the fact that the consumer does not book the ticket on the airline's own website is not okay. this also focuses on the issue of what information consumers are entitled to. for us greens, it is clear that all consumers have the right to clear and complete information on the prices applicable when booking their travel, and this information should be available from the first step, regardless of the platform used to book the trip. companies should also be prohibited from charging excessive fees for fabricated costs. the climate can also benefit from more information. what do i mean by that? indeed, information on the climate impact of air travel is an important complement to economic policy instruments to enable the customer to make informed decisions about his or her travel. stopping flights is one example of something that increases the climate effect, and the type of aircraft an airline uses also makes a difference. we think it is important that the regulatory framework in question provides consumers with clear information to enable them to make their decisions. the greens want to evaluate the regulatory framework to provide protection for europe's consumers and support for them to make wise and climate-smart decisions.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. – mr president, the committee on petitions, for which i am chair, is, at its very best, a tool that bridges the gap between the eu institutions and the citizens. the treaties guarantee all citizens the right to petition my committee on the difficulties and problems that they face in their everyday life. in 2015, we received 1 431 petitions. some of them refer to clear violation of eu law. the most common concerns remain within the areas of the environment, justice, fundamental rights and the internal market. altogether, this shows us at least three different things. firstly, that we have a long way to go before eu legislation is applied equally all over the european union, in every member state. secondly, it shows us the importance of petitions as a monitoring tool at grassroots level: the petitioners raise our awareness not only of violations of eu law, but also of deficiencies and loopholes that exist in the legislation. thirdly, it shows that the eu is crucial in securing the wellbeing of its citizens where the nation state fails or ignores its responsibilities. we must remember that the application and the implementation of eu law is ultimately the responsibility of the member states. as the number of infringement procedures initiated by the commission was still at a high level in 2015, i would strongly urge the member states to look into this and into their performance when it comes to implementation of eu law. we must ensure that the rights and the opportunities offered by eu legislation are maximised to benefit all the citizens of the union, irrespective of which member state they happen to live in.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs laura ferrara, for her work in producing this report and for the good cooperation. ecosystems are the basis for life, health, prosperity and social development. we are dependent on our environment and on our human actions, so we must protect the environment much more. the environmental liability directive arose from the need for precisely common rules at eu level to protect the environment. it was adopted in 2004 and member states had three years to transpose it into national law, but it took until 2010 for it to become a reality. this is incomprehensible. the commission report also gives a worrying picture of the actual application of the directive. the implementation of the directive has been inconsistent, which has also led to inconsistent and incomplete recording of environmental damage. the report therefore proposes clearer guidance documents for operators, the authorities concerned, environmental organisations and insurance companies. we have to protect the environment. it is the basis for life, health, and joy for us in our time and for future generations. it is important that we remedy significantly more environmental damage than is covered today. people with different experiences and backgrounds share the same air. we know that thousands of people across europe are dying because of poor air quality. we must therefore have common rules at eu level also for environmental damage involving air. i assume that the commission will take this into account in preparing for a future review. many studies also show that there has been no guidance or practice at national level for when an injury should be considered as a serious environmental injury. we therefore propose that the commission develop public databases to enable businesses and citizens to become aware of the environmental liability directive and its application. this would lead to better remediation and prevention of environmental damage. it has also been a priority for our group, and i am glad that it is, that the commission develops the possibilities for collective proceedings for infringements of eu environmental legislation. it gives you more opportunity for redemption. if we are serious about achieving the eu's sustainable development goals, we need to do much more. it is therefore high time that the european commission revised this directive so that more harm to health and the environment is covered by the directive. it must be done soon, the polluter pays principle must be applied and this principle must always be the guiding principle in the application of the directive. in view of this, i wonder what the commission is doing today and what the plan is for the forthcoming revision?
mr president, australia and sweden have a long tradition of trade. they have a similar business culture, resulting in 450 subsidiaries and almost 1 000 swedish companies doing business in australia, which generate 11 billion swedish krona in exports from sweden. that is why i am very satisfied that we have approved the negotiating mandate. i would very much like to urge the commission and our australian partners to make a transparent, safe and ambitious deal so we do not have to wait until free trade comes to go.
mr president, when measuring market share, new zealand is the eighth most important export market for swedish companies. this relationship could be deeper and more developed and i believe that the deal on free trade will make it so. i expect both partners very swiftly to deliver a modern, ambitious, balanced, fair and comprehensive free trade agreement that will benefit us all.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the world today is plagued by long-standing conflicts, many of them with multiple ethnic and religious dimensions. war and conflict have created tragedies that are part of the reason why more than 65 million people are refugees inside or outside their homelands. attacks on various religious groups have increased markedly, not only against christians but also against other religious minorities, such as shiites and yazidis. however, the situation of the christian group has deteriorated dramatically in recent years. the persecution is global and takes place in various parts of the world, including north korea, somalia, afghanistan, pakistan, sudan, china, eritrea, iraq, nigeria, saudi arabia, syria, egypt, india, iran, and turkey. in some countries the state is the main perpetrator, while in others individual groups are responsible - though most often a combination of both. the main problem is not that christians are the ones being persecuted but that so many countries, regimes and groups are violating freedom of religion, affecting all religious groups and minorities. according to the international christian aid organization open doors and its annual world watch list report on the persecution of christians around the world, the persecution of christians has reached new heights, and today more than 200 million christians face severe persecution for their faith, nearly one in ten of them. one region that stands out in terms of the scope and intensity of persecution of religious groups is the middle east. the number of christians in iraq has fallen by 80 percent to less than 300,000, compared with the previous total of 1.6 million. in syria, it's a drop from 1.2 million to 500,000 since the beginning of the war. although christians have lived in the middle east for over 2,000 years, they now make up only 3 to 4 percent of the region's population. their continued existence in the region is thus seriously threatened. ethno-religious divisions and intergroup conflicts have made all minorities more vulnerable. in some areas, christians, yazidis and other religious minorities have been persecuted by daish and killed for their faith. many have been driven from their homes and forced to seek refuge in neighbouring countries and in the eu. in my country, sweden, today, we have one of the largest diasporas of the assyrian/syrian/chaldean christian group in the world, and it has grown rapidly as a result of the ethnic cleansing by daesh in the middle east. while daesh has been driven from its strongholds in iraq and syria, and some of those driven may return home, the situation remains difficult for religious minorities in the middle east. despite the fact that the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion is enshrined in international law and is granted to every individual, regardless of religion, many marginalized groups feel betrayed and ignored by the un and the world community. as one of the largest donors to the region, the eu has a role to play, both in promoting political dialogue to enable a sustainable and peaceful future for christians in the middle east and in involving the people living there in the negotiations on their future.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu markets for financial services to individuals and small businesses are still underdeveloped. it is therefore important that the commission now do its utmost to complete the work on the capital markets union, of which the deepening of the internal market for financial services is a cornerstone. it will be interesting to see what concrete measures the commission actually proposes up to 2019. at the same time, action is lacking on a number of issues raised by parliament in the green paper on financial services. there is still a lack of a comprehensive approach to increase transparency, promote growth and innovation, and reduce the high fees for private pension insurance, funds and other financial services. digitalisation will increasingly change consumer behaviour and financial markets. therefore, our legal frameworks need to be adapted rapidly to remove cross-border barriers in order to strengthen our european fintech companies in global competition. in my report i therefore call on the commission to examine the possibility of introducing a 29th financial services system. we also have to deal with direct taxation in the way the internal market works. for example, banks can now cancel debit and credit cards of eu citizens who choose to move to another member state. clear eu rules are needed to give national supervisors the power to act against banks. if we are to really breathe new life into european cooperation, citizens need to see that the union is continuously working to remove obstacles to internal mobility, as we did with the roaming charge. in the future, it needs to be easier for consumers to switch financial service providers. i would therefore urge the commission to come forward with a specific legislative proposal to combat so-called geoblocking of financial services in the internal market. in the longer term, the commission will have to come forward with a proposal for a pan-european electronic identification system. as regards the concrete measures taken by the commission, i think it is good to propose an amendment to the regulation on crossborder payments to ensure equal charges for crossborder and national payments for currencies other than the euro. another issue is that of 'dynamic currency conversion', which means that consumers today have the choice of paying in euro or in their national currency when making payments and withdrawals abroad. in most cases, it is more expensive for customers to pay in their national currency. customers need to be clearly informed and, preferably, to be able to choose the most advantageous option for each purchase and withdrawal from an atm. as regards the commission's decision to develop the internal market in consumer credit, i think it is very important to develop at the same time effective measures to combat excessive household indebtedness. i therefore believe that it is necessary to develop an eu credit rating system. i am convinced that we need to see more jobs and more growth in today's europe to stem the current discontent. with an income of their own, more people can save in simple and secure financial services to create a better life in the future. that is how we can ensure a fairer europe for all. i would like to conclude by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their good and fruitful cooperation and i look forward to the commission's forthcoming proposals in the field of financial services.
mr president, i would like to thank you. each eu country has incorporated the european convention into its law and has an obligation to respect the rights of all citizens, including those of minorities. time and again, we see that this is not the case, but the eu has no tools to actually force its members to respect all its citizens. however, we are not only national citizens, we are also citizens of the union, and the union shall respect in all its activities the principle of equality between its citizens, who shall receive equal attention from the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies under article 9 of the treaty. today we have a deep and protracted conflict in one of our member states. i'm talking about spain. this has resulted in the indefinite detention of elected members of the catalan government, including former members of the european parliament, for carrying out what they have been elected to do on a mandate given to them by the electorate, because the state, the eu member, has refused all dialogue and change for many years. it is in such situations that citizenship of the union must play a role. where the state fails, the eu can step in. today, catalans are wondering where the eu is or whether it's even worth being a part of. it is not an internal matter, it is a matter for citizens of the union, and they should not be imprisoned for their ideas.
mr president, the commission’s working programme for 2018 will very soon present serbia and montenegro as frontrunner candidates for eu membership. this is very good, but the question remains: what will happen in the region when serbia goes forward and kosovo does not? will it ease tensions in kosovo? in the case of bosnia, what will happen? will this move ease ethnic tensions in bosnia or worsen them? the balkans is a fragile region, with a history of war, genocide and nationalistic narratives. the decision to put forward two countries will be perceived in the rest of the region as a reward, despite the war and genocide which these countries’ societies have now left behind. even worse, it might be perceived as a new eu anti-muslim policy. therefore, i beg the commission to include all the countries of the western balkans in the working programme. these countries are certainly at different levels, but all of them should be allowed to take some steps forward from where they are.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me first start by thanking the rapporteur, the commission and my fellow colleagues who were working on this file. i am sure that they agree with me that this important file will better protect consumers and prevent fraud. my personal experience of fraud online was actually buying, booking and paying for a hotel room only to find out that in reality there were no rooms... nor even a hotel! only a voice at the other end of the telephone line saying: ‘but i can see your room on my website.’ i am completely sure that all of us have had such an experience when buying online: fraudulent websites selling incredibly cheap products that are actually never delivered; websites offering products that turn out to be counterfeit; the ‘free-trial’ scams that promise consumers that they can try a product for free, only to find out later on that they have to pay something for the services... the list can be long and this piece of legislation today is directed at those consumers who have been deceived on the internet while buying products. it will make sure that consumer protection authorities collaborate better and prevent these infringements going on in the eu. we need to protect consumers because we have to buy things on the internet. there is a greater choice, there is a possibility of better value, but shopping on the internet has to be safe. i did want to see stronger wording on the need for a court decision before closing a website but nevertheless i do support the outcome of the negotiations and i do hope that the member states will implement this legislation as soon as possible.
mr president, the financial and banks services in the eu is the area where the internal market has not progressed as far as we might have wished. the numbers are astonishing. for example, 92% of the respondents in the eurobarometer survey said that they have never purchased any financial products or services in countries other than their own. less than 20 of these respondents have any bank account, any credit account, anything in states other than their own and, most gravely, if you have one, you will probably be considered a criminal. we have to change this. one way of changing it is with this file, with its clear proposals ending territorial restrictions, enhancing transparency of cross-border fees, and making it easier for consumers to change financial services and providers. these are crucial steps we need to take, and that is why i voted for this file.
blue-card question. – when i listen to our colleagues on that side of the house, i wonder: have you learned anything about european history, and do you notice anything in european history? do you look upon the development of russia – where the rule of law is undermined, where democracy is undermined – as a good thing for europe? do you like that russia is trying to do the same thing with all these countries? what would you prefer – for these countries to go the way of russia, or to go the european way? would you like them to be freer and more democratic or would you like them to follow the system of putin and others? tell us now – what would you prefer?
mr president, the eastern partnership is a partnership for freedom, democracy, the rule of law and peace. that is what we see. but we also see all the difficulties. and when i listen to the colleagues over there, and some of the colleagues over there, i see even more the importance of the eastern partnership, laying down the infrastructure for cooperation between all these countries and together with the european union; but also calling for russia to respect the sovereignty of each of these countries, because it is only in this way that democracy and freedom can be real. and calling upon all these governments to do more in order to get more, to secure the rule of law, fight corruption and strengthen democracy. many of you over there, and many of you over there, are against that and that is why we are supporting the eastern partnership, for democracy, freedom and the rule of law.
blue-card question. – lord dartmouth, are you aware of the fact that in the us ‘life’ in prison can be 300 years? i just wondered, do you think it is a wise idea? because i understand that you are upset with the fact that in europe, we have a tariff of maybe 40% instead of 300%. has it ever occurred to you that virtually all trade might actually stop even at 40%? this means that the extra 260% does not really matter, just as maybe the extra 250 years of life in prison in the us might not matter that much.
madam president, i would like to thank you. for 13 years, i think, i have been working with - or rather against - the eu's protective tariffs. for many of my colleagues here, this is no surprise, because we have had many conflicts over protective tariffs. i still find it difficult to understand why we should impose particularly high duties if someone is exporting something particularly cheap. i think the commission's new threat of tariffs on cheap electric bicycles says almost everything electric bicycles which at the same time in sweden the government wants to subsidize with state subsidies. i know that there are some people in the house today who are going to vote against the new rules tomorrow because they think or believe that it will be more difficult to impose draconian duties on, for example, electric bicycles from china. i could vote in exactly the same way but for the opposite reason, namely that i think it is and will remain too easy to impose draconian duties on, for example, electric bicycles from china. but frankly, it is not what tomorrow's vote is about, it is about something else entirely and hopefully something we can agree on, namely whether we are going to play by the rules, whether we are going to follow the eu acquis and whether we are going to ensure that we maintain a regulated world trade. i hope we're all agreed on that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. by 2050, africa's population is estimated to reach 2.4 billion, and the majority of them are young people. i am therefore pleased that the main theme of the fifth eu-africa summit is youth issues, as it is important to establish, support and finance initiatives promoting democracy, the rule of law and human rights, targeted at young people. the eu's relations with african countries are historically rooted. our joint work should now focus in particular on creating long-term political, economic and social conditions in africa conducive to sustainable and stable growth and development in the areas of peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. among other things, the root causes of poverty and migration should be tackled. the free movement of people, both highly and low-skilled, within africa and between africa and the eu should be facilitated through legal migration routes. last but not least, assistance cannot be made conditional in migration agreements.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation in poland and hungary is extremely serious, and the commission is talking about a systemic threat to the rule of law. we on the left share that assessment, as do many of our colleagues here, but we also see a systemic threat against women's rights, which was raised by some colleagues. this link between the attack on democracy, the attack on women's rights and the increasingly fascist authoritarian rule is so obvious. but not all my colleagues in this room actually see that. however, the many poles who took to the streets to protest in black saw this connection, and it is to them that i would like to send our support. we feminists here in the european parliament want to send a clear signal of support and solidarity to those of you who are fighting for democracy, the rule of law, women's rights, against racism and fascism in poland. you have our support, and i hope that you will have the support of all the colleagues here, and that they will all recognise the link between women's rights, democracy and the rule of law. (the speaker refused to answer a question (blue card) from mr david coburn in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
mr president, i would like to thank you. as soon as you don't agree with the eu-ives in this house, you're branded as an extremist. you just don't have the same value as the rest of you in here. unfortunately, it's you guys sitting in the front row who should be getting an intensive course in democracy, and who unfortunately lack some home-grown upbringing. you sit there mocking and laughing at your own inflated grandiose self-image. poland has become one of your favorite mob victims. respecting the outcome of a democratic election in a democratic country is not in your inflated egos. then you should educate the people to follow your view of things. you see the appointment of judges to the constitutional court as something terrible. i would like to say that we have the same system in sweden. the judges of the high court are called the judicial council, consisting of 16 members appointed by the government. when will you start criticizing sweden? when will you threaten sweden with sanctions? you should all sign up for a basic democracy course. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) i just want to ask lundgren a question. do you see no problem with the developments in poland, where the government is celebrating a racist and nationalist demonstration? do you see no problem with a government that politicizes the appointment of judges? it is the differences, not the procedures themselves, that are different in different countries. do you see no problems in the development of democracy and the rule of law in poland?
(blue card) of course there are problems. there are problems in all countries. we have the same problem in sweden, where we appoint the supreme judges and call them the council of justice. we have problems in sweden just as poland has problems in its country. i refuse, however, to accept that brussels and strasbourg should become a supreme authority to lecture countries for not sharing the picture you have here. there must still be national self-government. i'll never back down on that. i will never sell out my country to the eu elite!
mr president, today i express all my support for, and friendship towards, the people of poland – this great nation and strategic neighbour to us across the baltic. poland was a respected partner in the eu but now its political clout is being tarnished. the new government is busy justifying its unjustifiable breaching of the rule of law. the strength of our european family is the rule of law. it is about shared values and democracy, an independent judiciary, freedom of assembly and freedom to demonstrate, and women’s rights. poland, like all of us, embraced those values, and the family cannot be fully functioning if one of the member states breaches the trust between us. with our resolution, we are reaching out to poland. we call on the government to listen to the voice of its own people and to the independent european institutions, to engage in constructive dialogue, to reconsider its action, and to address the legitimate concerns raised by the european commission and the venice commission. these concerns are based on hard legal facts, not politics. it is not europe against poland – it is europe with poland. we want to cooperate with the government, and it is in their hands to avoid further action by the commission. turning their backs on this opportunity is leading poland, together with populists and eurosceptics, nowhere other than marginalisation, and it is creating tension. we want poland back as a key player in our european family, with the prominent role that the people of poland deserve, a credible and active partner when it comes to resolving the challenges facing europe. we need poland in order to shape a better future for our children together. (applause)
in writing. the situation in poland is very complex and the eu has taken a too clear position for an interpretation of the situation. of course, threats and violations of human rights cannot be accepted, but in doing so the eu has forgotten poland's history of totalitarian oppression under communism. the measures implemented by poland are part of a way of dealing with this dark part of poland's history and ensuring democratic governance. it is quite possible that everything that has been done in poland is not in line with the values that the eu has developed and is now using to justify a series of measures against poland. however, this does not justify the eu criticising and punishing poland for decisions taken in accordance with the democratic system in poland; this is premature and constitutes a gross violation of poland's self-determination as a nation. if there is to be any intervention on the international stage in relation to poland, it is the individual states through organisations such as the osce and the un that can and should pursue these and similar issues, not the eu. i do not believe in supranationality, and this is perhaps the best example of an eu that has gone too far.
for the efdd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the temperature is now 25 degrees in damascus, 30 degrees in lagos and 30 degrees in bangladesh. no human being should have to sleep in tents as the migrants in sweden did in the winter of 2015. there is, however, a simple solution: we say no from the start. europe, and sweden in particular, has taken its responsibility -- a responsibility that we have never had, because sweden has not started a war in over 200 years and has not had any colonies in 300 years. when does the responsibility end? there's a simple solution to this: put the resources on trips home for the economic migrants that are involved. say no before they cross over and we won't have to be blackmailed by turkey. i'm going to present the solutions, and we'll see what you do with them. maybe you need to think a little more and write some reports. but we all know that it will end australia's immigration system. that's why i'm going to go there soon and learn more about this. then you can ask me instead of these liberals who are currently ruling the eu. free asylum and open borders for the whole world do not work. it's time to face it now.
madam president, the eastern partnership launched eight years ago is one of the most successful foreign policy initiatives taken by the eu. it gave practical and measurable results. four thousand students have gained a scholarship in the eu, 10 000 people have been exchanged in exchange programmes, and most importantly citizens of moldova, georgia and ukraine now travel visa-free to the eu. however, this partnership needs new dynamism and the countries of the region still need help. ukraine needs help to resist the russian occupation. the minsk agreement has to be respected, and these other countries need help to resist the russian influence. only then may these countries be able to make a move towards the eu and to improve and have a clear stance towards the union, to get closer to it.
mr president, some of the members of this house have today compared the soviet union with the european union, mixing up open borders democracy, human rights, a market economy and democratic elections with the iron curtain and borders, torture, deportations and executions. i must tell those members in question that they have not learned anything, and have not understood anything about democracy. it is a shame, and an insult to all those who suffered and lost their lives. it is also a shame that we still see people celebrating the so—called glorious revolution of october 1917. they do not understand that totalitarian ideas will always lead to totalitarian dictatorship, totalitarian executions and deportations – because, when might goes before right, freedom is lost and individuals suffer. the core responsibility of the european union is to be the firm and strong defender of human rights, democracy, open borders and a free society. that is why we need to understand the differences, because, if we do not, we lose some part of our freedom. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are discussing the future of transport policy in the eu. during the year, a number of proposals were put forward under the heading 'europe on the move' an agenda for a socially equitable transition towards clean, competitive and connected mobility for all. if we're going to meet our climate goals, the transportation sector needs to be reorganized. now the real work begins to make sure that it is actually implemented. the idea that all people should own their own cars and that the roads should be filled with freight cars is a thing of the past. the mobility of the future is based on rail, shipping, cycling, e-mobility and new solutions in the sharing economy. are we going to leave a sustainable, habitable planet to our children and grandchildren? can we breathe fresh air in our cities? i am convinced that we all want to, but then the responsibility falls heavily on us politicians, on business and on civil society. we're going to show leadership. we greens demand that the transport sector has ambitious, concrete and measurable targets that live up to what we promised each other in paris. it's a policy for child-friendly cities with clean air and safe streets. however, it is also a policy for a viable rural area with efficient and accessible transport. in cities, cycling, walking and public transport will take the place of cars, so that in the countryside of the future people can still drive. the fossil-free fuel we have has to be enough for those who actually need the car. we greens will work for a high level of ambition, stricter requirements and mandatory requirements for the member states. in our opinion, the proposals now on the table are far from what is actually required to get us all the way to paris. we greens will fight to get there.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in 2016, the world's attention was focused on donald trump's inflammatory campaign speech about fake news. that same year, nine journalists in more authoritarian countries were jailed on the accusation of fake news. in 2015, there were two reported cases. we don't have 2017 numbers yet, but the trend is very clear. the way we act as democracies can mean the difference between a life in freedom and a life in prison for journalists. sudan is a good example of this. this year, the eu is investing €1.7 million to fund projects promoting democratic principles in sudan, with a particular focus on, among other things, the media. with the united states as the rising star, the eu must take the fight for human rights seriously. in agreements and partnerships with third countries, we must put human rights clauses at the centre, and when they are not respected, there must be tangible consequences. i also want to take the time to tip you off about forbidden stories, a project that reporters without borders and freedom voices network are launching this november to secure material from threatened journalists and enable them to continue their work if they are arrested or killed.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, again we observe the heinous measures which dictatorships are willing to use in order to silence even the slightest criticism – legitimate criticism. yet we act surprised. by this time we ought to know to what lengths authoritarian regimes are ready to go in order to silence any perceived threats. as a former journalist i realise the indispensable role of a free press in any state grounded in the rule of law. external scrutiny is a fundamental aspect of holding political representatives accountable to the people. the european union must condemn the unjust sentencing of mohamed zine al-abidine and osman mirgani, and increase the pressure on the sudanese regime. the president and his companions must cease their actions. the people of sudan too deserve to live in freedom, in security and democracy.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, as you know, i am taking this item on behalf of commission vice-president mogherini. the european union continues to express serious concerns about the human rights situation in sudan, which is marked by human rights violations and abuses, including restrictions on peaceful protests, media censorship, harassment and arbitrary detention of human rights defenders, the crackdown on civil society organisations and restrictions on freedom of religion. in particular, freedom of expression and press and media freedoms are also under serious threat. the security authorities continue to seize print runs, to suspend independent newspapers indefinitely, and arbitrarily to arrest and detain journalists for the critical content of their writing. such concerns were highlighted in a statement issued by the european union, with like-minded partners, in december 2016. despite some progress that sudan has recently shown on humanitarian access and establishing a cessation of hostilities in conflict areas, changes in the domestic setting remain limited. civil society organisations are largely inhibited from operating at full capacity, with crackdowns on protesters, human rights defenders, journalists, members of the opposition and religious minorities. the case of mohamed zine al-abidine is emblematic of the problems that affect the whole country. in 2012, this journalist was detained for two weeks because of an opinion article denouncing the abuse of power by the highest circles of sudanese leadership, which was published by the newspaper al-tayar. as a consequence, the newspaper was immediately suspended for two years. on 23 october the sudanese court sentenced zine al-abidine to a three-year suspended sentence and the editor-in-chief, osman mirgani, to six months in jail for criminal conspiracy and disruption of the public order. mirgani was released the following day after a fine for his release was paid. the european union has closely monitored the aforementioned prosecution and other similar cases through which the sudanese government tries to maintain control over the information landscape in the country. the union will continue to call on the government to respect freedom of expression and enable space for civil society. the union also remains committed to supporting human rights defenders and civil society at large through various means at our disposal. the union is, for example, supporting several projects on press freedom, as well as civic and human-rights education in sudan through the european instrument for democracy and human rights. the european union strongly encourages the government of sudan to show full commitment to peace and reconciliation in sudan. this includes the strengthening of the democratisation process, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the adoption of genuine political and economic reforms addressing the root causes of conflict. the eu is ready to engage with the government of sudan on these issues.
author. – madam president, in october this year hundreds of people senselessly lost their lives in somalia. some are still missing. this is the latest in a long line of acts of violence, extremism and terror – attacks for the most part attributed to al-shabaab. these terrible acts have occurred in the wider context of internal conflict and instability including acute food insecurity and the fact that more than two million people have been forced to leave their homes, as internally displaced persons or refugees, in the region. we must take a strong stand in condemning these acts of violence as well as addressing the situation that somalia is facing when it comes to nationwide security, stability and justice – a situation which will continue to worsen without strong action in defence of civil society, human rights, democracy and rule of law.
author. – madam president, the human rights situation in madagascar right now is extremely serious. the everyday reality of human rights defenders is intimidation, threats, lack of freedom of association and expression, and judicial harassment – in clear contravention of international human rights norms. we need to send a clear message to the malagasy authorities that the harassment of human rights defenders and journalists must stop. they must be allowed to carry out their work in safety. the court sentences that have been handed down to human rights defenders and journalists to force them to stop their work, such as in the case of raleva, must be quashed. the eu and its member states must invest in providing support and protection to human rights defenders; it is our obligation.
rapporteur. – madam president, the european parliament has managed to do something quite unusual: we have united the epp, the socialist group, the alde group, the greens and the gue group to build a solid reform of the dublin regulation, based on solidarity. it is a complicated, delicate file, but according to the eurobarometer of this year 70% of citizens of europe expect the european union to deliver on this, to deliver on the collapsed system that we have today. it is high time today that we deliver. united we are strong. the alternative is that we stand, as of today, with no policy on a very topical and very difficult area, namely migration. if we cannot manage to unite, the european parliament makes itself completely irrelevant. if we are united we can also ask the council to come up with a position where they can unite. we have united, more than 200 political parties of europe, on this, and a big majority of the civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) committee. now the council does not even have a position. we have a position that will change the reality out there, so, colleagues, today i stand before you asking for your confidence to start negotiations based on solidarity, based on european policy, creating an asylum system that is going to change the chaos of today and turn it into order. the alternative we know very well. it is your choice. ask me, together with my team, to enter into negotiations, or defend the failed policy as of today in front of your citizens, if you can.
madam president, i voted in favour of this agreement because i firmly believe that this cooperation will be fruitful, allowing both partners to swiftly move towards a modern, comprehensive and fair free trade agreement. i recognise the importance of new zealand for my country, sweden. it is actually the eighth most important trade partner for my country, and i believe it can be so with the eu as well. i believe that this agreement is especially important in this protectionist time as a fight against protectionism, and that is why i supported it.
member of the commission. – madam president, the energy union strategy is one of the main political initiatives of this commission, as president juncker said from day one, and we see it not only as a key contribution to addressing our energy and climate-change challenges but also as an opportunity to boost investment, jobs and growth. vice-president šefčovič was scheduled to participate in this debate but he has unfortunately been detained by a medical emergency and he has asked me to present his apologies. we all wish him a speedy recovery. i am also informed that former president busek is also in hospital and i want to send him my best wishes for a quick and full recovery. the immediate reason for this debate is the third state of the union report, which the commission adopted last week. the report gives us an opportunity to take stock of what has been achieved at both european union and national level, and outlines what must still be done in the future to ensure a successful energy transition in which all of society can participate and engage with the european union. a clear message stands out already: the energy transition is happening and europe is moving at a fast pace from an energy system based on the 20th century to a low-carbon, more digital and consumer-centric system that is fit for the future. we can see that the share of renewables in the european union energy mix continues to rise and we are on track to reach our 2020 target of 20%. the even-better news is that the cost of renewables is falling. already today, the european union has successfully decoupled its greenhouse gas emissions from economic growth. between 1990 and 2016 our gross domestic product in europe grew by 53%, while total greenhouse gas emissions declined by 23% over the same period. the commission has delivered its part in implementing an energy union and the main legislative proposals provided for in the energy union strategy are now on the table. the european parliament has also played its part. two weeks ago we reached a milestone agreement on the emissions trading system, which, thanks notably to european parliament efforts, will be considerably strengthened for the next trading period. similarly, we welcome the process of negotiation on the revision of the effort sharing regulation and the integration of land use, land-use change and forestry. let me also take this opportunity to thank you for your efforts on reaching agreements on security of supply, an intergovernmental decision which came into force last may. this reflects a major political success enhancing the security of energy supply to the european union. the negotiations on the clean energy for all europeans package are advancing and it is now up to the co-legislators to finalise it. i am pleased to note that progress is being made on all eight of the legislative proposals in the package. the first trilogue has already taken place on the revised energy performance of buildings directive, which we hope can be finalised by the end of this year. despite substantial progress further efforts will clearly be needed to meet the european union’s energy efficiency targets, notably to prevent further increases in energy consumption as the cost of higher economic growth. the energy efficiency progress report accompanying the state of the union closely monitors the progress towards a 20% target by 2020. this is a further reason why we must ensure that the revision of the energy efficiency directive and the energy performance of buildings directive contains a high level of ambition. let me underline, in this context, that it is essential to have a strong governance system and to have integrated national energy and climate plans for the post-2020 period. the two clean mobility packages proposed by the commission aim to help the sector to stay competitive in a socially fair transition towards clean energy …
member of the commission. – […] besides the two clean mobility packages proposed by the commission aimed at helping the sector to stay competitive in a socially fair transition towards clean energy and digitalisation in the transport sector because greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise, which we are aiming to address with the clean mobility proposals we presented in november. the past year also brought important progress on a range of enabling measures that were put in place by the commission aimed at overcoming the difficulties experienced by some regions or population groups. regarding our tailor—made support and assistance to regions in transition, the commission has always underlined the importance of a socially fair transition to clean energy, and it thanks parliament for its support. it is an area where european action can add value to the ongoing efforts in member states. in this context, in december the commission will launch a platform on core regions in transition to support a valuable economic transformation of core regions in a socially fair way. with regard to the islands initiative, in may the commission, together with 14 member states, signed a political declaration in malta to accelerate the clean energy transition on islands and the first forum took place in crete in september. energy poverty affects close to 50 million of our citizens. this is not acceptable and the clean energy for all europeans package includes a range of measures to address this through energy efficiency measures, safeguards against disconnection and better definition and monitoring. i am certain that the co—legislator will have this in mind in the course of our negotiation. let me turn now to some of the initiatives associated with the third state of the energy union report: a new communication on infrastructure, addressing in particular implementation of the 15% interconnection target and the third list of projects of common interest (pcis). there will be no energy transition if the energy infrastructure is not adapted to the needs of the future energy system. interconnectors are the physical component of our ongoing energy transition. the communication on infrastructure draws a picture of the progress made in the field of trans—european energy networks. while there is progress, missing infrastructure links identified through the pci process and the high-level groups remain to be completed. some 30 projects on the first pci list will have been completed by early next year, 22 for gas and eight for electricity. more needs to be done regarding electricity interconnection projects, storage and smart grids to enable decarbonisation and allow the integration of an increasing amount of renewables. therefore the third list of projects of common interest identifies 173 pcis, among which there are 106 electricity projects, 53 gas projects, six oil projects, four smart-grid deployment projects and, for the first time, four co2 infrastructure projects to address greenhouse gas emission challenges. we expect a further 45 to 50 pcis to be completed in 2020. the others will take longer. for this reason, it is crucial that enough financing is reserved in the next multiannual financial framework. the infrastructure communication proposes a new approach to electricity interconnection targets for 2030. it is accompanied by the evaluation of the ten—e framework, which shows that positive results are becoming visible. the 10% electricity interconnection target has provided political momentum to advance key cross—border projects. it is an important and useful policy tool that has helped by sending a strong political signal towards the development of the trans—european electricity infrastructure. the commission had previously proposed a general headline target of 15% for 2020. as the reality of the electricity system is changing, we need to move forward to a better adapted interconnection framework. already in 2030 we expect that more than half of our electricity will come from renewables and, based on the conclusions of the expert groups, three operational thresholds will be established. finally, turning towards what still needs to be done, let me stress that the energy union has reached a critical juncture in order to make it a full success. the commission will focus on several aims. firstly: helping to deliver the final outcome of our proposals for the required legislative framework. second: delivering the enabling framework with a focus on promoting investments at local level closer to the citizen, intensifying support for the transitioning of coal and carbon intensive regions, and ensuring that the efforts of industry are consistent with those of policymakers. the launch of the clean energy industrial competitiveness forum will help us drive the process on. and finally, engaging all parts of society. the commission will continue to secure the participation of all levels of society – young people in particular – and to create a stronger connection between european, national and local efforts. this is key for the success of the energy transition. on this point, i would also ask this house for your help. as members of the european parliament, you can encourage and stimulate your constituents and representatives of civil society in your regions to get involved and support the clean energy transition. this parliament plays an important role in the success of these initiatives. i count on your continued support as only together will we be able to make use of the full potential of energy transition in terms of job creation, economic growth and attracting investments, and ensure a clean energy future and climate change mitigation for europe. thank you, madam president, and sorry to the interpreters.
blue-card question. – i just want to raise one point with mr bullock. if you include the imports, then you should perhaps also include the exports from the european union. if you mean that we are increasing carbon dioxide more than we believe because of the imports, then you should also count the exports. can you give the mathematics for that so you give relevance to your contribution?
madam president, the whole idea with the energy union is to strengthen the independence and security of supply for the european union at the same time as we can develop a policy that is consistent with the paris agreement and our climate policies. this underlines the need for well-functioning energy markets, allowing for the emergence of new energy sources, renewable energies and competitive prices. that is why i think it is so important to have a focus on the market structures, allowing for cross-border trade, but also allowing for the new energy sources to develop under business competitiveness structures. i say this because there is a risk that we are planning more than we are developing. when we are discussing the winter package we clearly see the risks. we have seen in history that planned economies are never successful regarding the environment or efficient energy production. that is why it is important that the legislation we are now entering will allow for better market solutions of different kinds. i very much welcome in this perspective the commission’s proposal on amending the gas directive. the pipelines coming from here or from there must all be under eu law. that is a requirement and a pre-condition for a competitive european energy market but also for fair competition. nord stream is a threat to the energy union but also to competition in the energy union. nord stream must fulfil all the requirements for competition in the european union. that is why it is very good that the commission has made this proposal.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is good to hear finnish being spoken in the chamber again from the bureau. what we are discussing now is perhaps the most ambitious legislative package we have to deal with this term of office. if it is managed properly, it will lead to us creating a more secure energy supply within the european union, to us managing significantly more of the capital that is used today to procure energy within the union, to us creating new businesses, to us having a growing renewable energy sector that also ensures that we create jobs throughout the european union. at the same time, there are a number of warning points. we see that some in parliament are not really ready to make broad compromises. i would like to warn my colleagues against using parliament as a pawn in creating the biggest headlines in the name of ambition. i myself come from sweden, which is climate ambitious. i come from a party which was one of the first in the world to speak about environmental policy in parliament. at the same time: if there is one thing that makes me nervous, it is political instability and when we use parliament as a playing card. we can see how we succeeded yesterday in raising the ambition for renewables quite considerably in the committee on industry. we also saw the total chaos that came out of the environment committee vote. we must now make sure that we take a clear responsibility and ensure that we get the same broad majority for the plenary vote on the remaining parts of the renewable energy directive as we had in the committee on industry. only then will we succeed in the trilogues and only then will we have a functioning and successful energy union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in paris two years ago, we made a promise to each other and to the world to do what is necessary to slow down climate change. we promised to leave a habitable planet to our children and grandchildren. it is now that we must deliver on that promise. that is why i am concerned about the state of the energy union. the proposals are thinning out. ambition is insufficient. the green transition is being postponed. the latest example is yesterday's vote in the committee on industry, which unfortunately decided that the renewable energy targets should not be binding on member states. if we are to actually deliver on the paris goals, then the goals must be binding so that we can ensure that they are actually achieved. no one should be able to evade our shared responsibility. this can't go on. we greens propose binding targets for member states of 35% renewable energy for the eu by 2030. it creates the pressure for green transition and innovation that is needed. then we'll go all the way to paris.
for the verts/ale group. we greens do not feel that this proposal gives us any guarantee that this will not be a militarisation of the only instrument we have for civil conflict prevention rather that we will turn it into an instrument for military capacity building in other countries. the idea has been to date that the operations carried out through the instrument should be compatible with the dac framework and we believe that this should continue to be the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important that we ensure that the aid is used in accordance with the rules and is not diverted to other uses. the legal basis for the peace and stability instrument is articles 2009 and 2012 on assistance and technical cooperation. the proposed amendment, according to the council's own legal opinions of 29 july 2016, has a security-oriented purpose and cannot therefore form the basis of the proposal. nothing has changed since then and we believe that the proposal is not compatible with the treaty and should therefore not be adopted. the problem for us is not that eu countries are helping with capacity building in third countries. the problem is that actions which are supposed to be charged to the national budgets of the member states are instead proposed to receive eu funding from other key areas. the eu treaty states that eu funds cannot be used for military purposes. nothing prevents member states from investing in military capacity building in third countries, but then they must also be prepared to invest money in it, rather than taking away the important civilian efforts. so even if the rapporteur succeeds in getting a joint statement that funds should not be taken from an aid budget, and that will not happen in 2018, a number of other areas in need of increased budget cuts, such as neighbourhood policy, possible foreign police operations and the disaster buffer, will be affected. what the aid fund was supposed to pay for had to be taken from somewhere else and it is not clear where.
mr president, i will speak in swedish. vi ska imorgon rösta om ett instrument för stabilitet och fred, men texten handlar om hur eu ska bygga ett gemensamt försvar. som feminist och pacifist måste jag uttrycka min förtvivlan om eu:s svar på hur vi ska bygga stabilitet och fred är mer vapen och militär. det mest destruktiva patriarkala uttrycket av våldet syns i den patriarkala säkerhetspolitiken, militarismen, som vill att män med militära medel ska försvara nationen och dess kvinnor och barn. detta är en förlegad patriarkal politik. vi måste ändra eu:s och världens säkerhetspolitiska agenda till att utgå från att skapa mänsklig säkerhet – att varje människa har rätt att leva ett liv i trygghet, varje dag, i varje stund. det instrument vi har framför oss kommer inte att skapa fred och stabilitet, det kommer bara att skapa mer våld och otrygghet. jag kommer att rösta nej till mer militär och uppmanar alla feminister och pacifister i europaparlamentet att göra samma sak.
mr speaker, like much of the instability in the middle east, the tragic war in yemen is a consequence of the destructive power struggle between iran and saudi arabia. iranian support for the houthi rebels is the source of this conflict. that support must end immediately. at the same time, the methods used by the saudi-led coalition are, by all means, unacceptable. the ruthless bombing of civilians and civilian infrastructure amounts to war crimes. the blockade deployed by the saudi-led coalition aims to conquer yemen through starvation. mr president, we as members of this house must condemn the appalling actions of both iran and saudi arabia in the strongest possible terms. the expansion of political or military influence will never be acceptable at the expense of innocent civilians. the people of yemen deserve to live in democracy, in freedom and with respect for fundamental human rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this question and for the opportunity to discuss where we are in discussions on the multilateral investment court. mr lange kindly added some extra questions to the written questions, so i will try to answer them and then we can come back to it in the debate. on the first question in the written questions – because i am eager to answer all of that otherwise i will be criticised – we have engaged, as you know, with parliament and the stakeholders on the need to reform the existing investor-state dispute arbitration, particularly at meetings in the committee on international trade, in public consultation, the impact assessment process, and quite a lot of stakeholder meetings here in brussels, as well as across europe and in other countries as well. from these discussions, it became even clearer that investor-state dispute settlement (isds), the traditional way of resolving disputes between foreign investors and host states, has a number of shortcomings. we have discussed this numerous times. i think that even in the first hearing i had, before i became commissioner for trade, i promised to reform the system, and it was very clear then that many of you already had criticisms. one of the problems is that the disputing parties choose and pay what are perceived to be their adjudicators for each case. this raises important concerns and does not fit with the principle that justice should not only be done, but should also be seen to be done. secondly, this ad hoc system inevitably creates fragmentation of the interpretation of core elements of investment protection standards, and that leads to uncertainty for governments and investors alike. furthermore, the isds system as it is today is not transparent, it has no possibility for appeal and it does not provide for sufficient review opportunities, and this is a problem. in order to respond to these concerns, we have been working on the initiative to create a permanent multilateral investment court. this would ensure a higher degree of legitimacy, consistency and reliability. it would also reinforce independence and impartiality, transparency and also effectiveness in investment dispute resolution at global level, because this discussion is not only taking place in europe. i have been discussing this matter with trade ministers across the globe, and in many countries it is a focus of debate. so they are also looking at how to reform the system. they get a lot of criticism from domestic stakeholders and this is, therefore, something on which there really is a case for global reform, instead of each country trying to reform in its own way. we have examined different options in our impact assessment, ranging from the reform of the existing rules or renegotiation of each investment treaty, to the establishment of an appeal body, but these alternatives do not really fully address the totality of the concerns identified by us, and also raised by this house and many others. this is why a multilateral investment court could be the optimal reform of the system. the council and its member states have broadly welcomed this and they have expressed political support. the commission adopted a recommendation for a council decision on 13 september, authorising the opening of negotiations for a convention establishing the multilateral court. that recommendation is public. you can see it, so you will know what we are talking about, and we are looking forward to the swift adoption by the council of the authorisation and directives. but we still have no indication of when this will come. on the other question, the idea that the multilateral investment court would replace any isds mechanism included in the investment treaties; yes, but there are internal bilateral investment treaties (bits) between eu member states. they will have to be outside this reform initiative. we consider them, from the commission side, as contrary to eu law, and member states have to deal with this issue. therefore, we should not move them to the multilateral investment court. another question that was asked was about our current thinking on the relationship between the multilateral investment court and the domestic courts, and how that will be governed in the investment treaties under the multilateral investment court jurisdiction. our approach, included in our eu agreement, will be to encourage recourse to domestic courts prior to initiating international dispute settlement. this is the eu position. however, in different countries we are discussing with their different traditions, so we will have to see how we can find a way forward as part of the negotiations. on the fourth question, one of the priorities would be to facilitate access to the court for smes, to ensure full transparency of proceedings, the intervention of affected third parties and an effective international enforcement regime. so these are our priorities for the international negotiations. on the final question, it is intended that discussions and future negotiations on the court should focus only on procedural issues. matters such as counter claims and compliance with other international obligations will, in principle, be addressed in the underlying investment treaties to be applied by the multilateral investment court. if such treaties allow for the possibility of bringing counter claims, the new court should also be able to hear those claims against investors. finally, it is still too early to say whether the multilateral investment court would be a stand-alone institution, which is one possibility, or docked into another. there are different views on this and options are on the table. it is a little too early to decide this yet, but i promise to keep you fully informed because, of course, we will continue to have the highest level of transparency in these discussions. i welcome the opportunity of discussing this with the house today, and hopefully we will continue these discussions within the international trade committee and elsewhere as well.
for the ppe group. thank you, mr president! thank you, cecilia malmström! thank you for your help! we are here tonight to discuss and debate the fact that the commission wants to start negotiations on a multilateral court to deal with investment protection disputes. i'll be honest, i still wonder why. i have spent many years following this debate, and i must say that nothing that the commission, and now cecilia, has explained has made it any more comprehensible. actually, it's quite simple why it's so difficult to understand. it is because there already happens to be a multilateral instrument to deal with the disputes we are talking about. it's the icsid that you're aware of, which was created in 1965, which encompasses 161 countries and is basically run by the same commission, the un commission on international trade, which governs all these kinds of issues. now that it has been decided to reinvent the wheel in a european context and to try to create a new, different or perhaps even the same type of institution, i can only ask: why would you do that? to find the answer to that question, i think you have to look at politics, because this is really a question of politics. unfortunately, it is eu policy at its worst. the story behind this idea, we all know how it started. it actually started with the debate on isds, and the dispute settlement procedure started with a swedish company, vattenfall, suing germany for decommissioning its nuclear power. my german colleagues nod. you know that's how it happened. sweden once shut down nuclear power and it was a german company that operated the nuclear power plants, and sweden paid compensation for it. in this case, no compensation was paid. i don't know if vattenfall is entitled to compensation or not. i don't know, but this became a big political problem in germany. especially among the german social democrats. this great german political problem became the problem of the german government, and what is being done? that is turning your own problem into a european problem. all of a sudden ... (inaudible)... the eu is trying to deal with the dispute settlement controversy. what about europe? let's make this a global problem. can we not get the whole world to commit to somehow creating a new institution, which we actually already have, to deal with disputes between states and investors? but i still don't understand why. it's not like we have a ton of these disputes. since the '60s, we've had over 600. it's worldwide! so i wonder, is it true that we have a lot of problems with the litigation that is being conducted today? so far, no one has been able to prove it. i did a challenge on twitter a few years ago when the debate was at its peak. now, not many people are interested anymore, but then, when everyone was very interested, i asked: can you give me an example of a case of this type of investment dispute that is unfair? i haven't had a single suggestion. but for every suggestion that someone comes up with, i promise to give ten examples that are justified and important. instead of getting caught up in this political narrative and trying to fix a system that actually works, maybe we should spend the same commitment and the same amount of time reforming icsid -- the institution that's been around since the 1960s, with 161 states, and trying to make it better instead of just duplicating it. i think, unfortunately, that this will lead to more problems, not less.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you very much. and i would like to thank the shadows because this has been a very rapid process, a fast-track, in order to ensure that we can very quickly have legal certainty in place on what to do when a bank is in deep problems. i think an important point of departure is the fact that in the european union investments are far too low. investments are at a pre-crisis level. i think it is important to understand and to see that this in itself means a systemic risk and a risk of financial instability. because, if investments are too low, competitiveness lags behind and jobs are lost, but we are also lacking the growth we need in order to ensure stability in the economic system and the financial system. and that is why it is important to ensure that banks can be stable and at the same time have the strength and opportunity to finance investments. in the european union, banks are crucial for this. we have more banks that are crucial for investments than in other economies. our capital markets are of that kind. that is why it is important that banks can make investments, create markets, can in all ways ensure that we have the investments and the growth that is needed. this legislation, that we are to adopt today, is about ensuring that when a bank is in deep problems, there will be no discussion that governments or taxpayers shall finance the problems of others. and this is in itself an extremely important signal to markets. first of all, it is a way of ensuring that when you are in trouble, you know what to do. that is why we have this ranking. and that is why we have the bank resolution and recovery directive (brrd), because that is how we tell the market that we are going to bail in or do something else with the banks, but not lean on governments. but a second thing with the brrd which is, for me, extremely important is telling the market – those who invest in a bank, those who own a bank – do not get into the belief that someone else will save you. this in itself is creating a market discipline that is crucial. my aim with the banking package we are now dealing with is to ensure that we introduce total loss-absorbing capacity (tlac). this will mean even higher security and certainty on what to do when resolving a bank but no higher capital burdens beyond that. because if we go down that route, it will mean less investment and less opportunities for growth. but the legal clarity we achieve with this hierarchy will safeguard depositors, safeguard taxpayers and will make it known among everyone in the market that you take the same risk when you invest in a bank as when you invest in another company. that is how simple it is. i would once again like to thank colleagues for the very rapid process, because it is important that we have this cornerstone in the banking union in place. now we have some other things to do in order to complete the banking union, the financial market and the banking legislation.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this discussion. it showed that it was very consensual. we all more or less all support the principles and the text of the legislation. there are three main points: firstly, it will create legal clarity for bank debt holders; secondly, it will strengthen the internal market and banking sector; and thirdly, it protects taxpayers. sometimes when discussing these kinds of issues, people feel that it does not make sense that banks take too much risk, and that is why banks are bad and they want to fail. this is not the case. banks usually do not want to fail on purpose, but we have to understand that banking is just like any business. it may fail, for various reasons, and that is why we have to have an orderly manner to solve these banking problems. the taxpayers’ role is also very critical here. taxpayers have sold banks, i.e. investors in the banks, shareholders of the banks, who are usually normal european citizens. there are also sometimes other businesses which have invested in the banks so we have to make sure that the european market economy is functioning well and it has a solid rule base, and even if we are talking about the banking sector, it does not mean that taxpayers should have a greater responsibility to savers, owners, investors or creditors of the banks as they have responsibility in other sectors of business. so this piece of legislation creates much-needed clarity and once again i want to thank this house for its good cooperation.
rapporteur. – mr president, a few points: this is in some ways a complex piece of legislation with a lot of details, but it is not magic. with this legislation we are not avoiding risks, because financial markets and banking are about analysing risks, taking risks and distributing risks: that is the whole idea. but what we are doing with this legislation – and mr tang touched upon this – is ensuring that the risk stays with the risk-taker. that is the main purpose of this and the purpose of the hierarchy, because it describes the different levels of risk. this means that, as mr pereira said earlier, depositors will have the least risk, will be the most safeguarded, with the owners in the first hand and then the subordinated debt. this is not magic, and it is my firm belief that, when we are asked to proceed with the rest of this banking package, we shall underline that all debt is bail-in-able, because that is creating market discipline. but we shall also ensure that we have clarity, which means that banks can be transparent but also secure, so that they can finance the investments we need, which are needed in the next step to secure financial stability. thank you very much for this debate. i look forward to the decision which we will take later today.
mr president, the president of parliament, who unfortunately is not here today, announced that he would sign the joint declaration on the eu priority files for 2018 and 2019. that wish list is full of unrealistic political proposals. there is no joint position. the house failed to reach an agreement. only his own group and the liberals support the declaration, but six groups have refused it. mr tajani clearly has no mandate for signing the joint declaration on behalf of parliament. when he got elected he declared he would act as a president for all members. mr tajani, please stick to your commitment. do not sign the joint declaration. you do not have a mandate for that. i would also ask the commission and the council presidency whether, if mr tajani signs the joint declaration in brussels at the european council against all the warnings of six political groups and without the mandate of parliament, his signature on that document would be valid? how do you feel about that? will you insist on signing a joint declaration that is not approved of by parliament?
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commissioner is not here. i would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the negotiations and worked on this regulation. we have succeeded in radically raising the standards for who should fish under the eu flag, and i am proud to say that the eu fleet will be the most transparent and the most responsible on the global high seas after our work. a great victory. this is the only way to start a credible dialogue with other major fishing nations on how to raise standards internationally and how to sustainably manage our common resources for future generations. there's a battle going on over the marine resources. now that we have extracted what we can from the land, we can look at the blue economy and what it can do to meet our insatiable need. but if we are not to endanger the food security of millions of people through overfishing and predation, the eu must take its responsibility. if we don't see that our behavior affects others, then we will see a world of increasing refugee flows, increasing poverty and hunger. for people on the african continent, fish is the most important source of protein, to mention just one example. the eu must take its responsibilities at sea. the commission proposal was therefore a very good starting point for bringing together for the first time all types of activities outside eu waters. partnership agreements, private agreements, fisheries within rfmo and open water fisheries. this is a very positive step and i am very pleased that the council of ministers shared these objectives. i would like to start by telling you about our gains from the european parliament. we managed to introduce several new rules to improve the sustainability of fisheries, both on the high seas and in private contracts. we now have stricter rules on the chartering of boats, including a definition of what is included and a prohibition on it in the eu's partnership agreements. this is important. chartering is the most obvious way to circumvent rules on both social and environmental sustainability. we have managed to negotiate a more consistent adaptation to the iuu regulation as regards when fishing must cease if the commission decides to give the country a red card for illegal fishing. it should no longer be allowed to fish in waters where it is in clear violation of international agreements on illegal fishing. we also succeeded in the requirement for better information on the history and activities of a ship when it returns to the eu register of ships. this is important to ensure that the vessel flying the eu flag has not been fishing illegally or has not rented its flag to less prudent countries. fishing in open water will now require a scientific assessment to demonstrate the sustainability of the planned activities. open water is not the wild west for just anyone to roam. we need to regulate the activities there carefully. we demanded stricter rules for transhipment at sea and succeeded in getting through rules requiring prior notification to the member state and an annual report to the european commission. but as in all negotiations, we didn't achieve all our goals. the eligibility criteria we wanted vessels not to be eligible for a fishing licence if they had committed a serious infringement or offence in the year before the fishing started. the council of ministers refused to take this into account, and we had to go in last. this is largely due to the fact that member states do not apply the control regulation in the same way. we really wanted to strengthen the ability of the european commission to revoke an authorisation if the member state does not apply the conditions correctly. this is more commonly known as the claw back clause. we have reached a compromise text which gives the european commission the right to put more pressure on the member state if the member state does not act in cases of serious crime or infringement, and it remains to be seen whether the european commission can make effective use of this possibility. that means we have to keep building opinion and keeping an eye on our own boats. we also want greater transparency and openness in the fishing fleet. the european parliament wants the names of the owner and the final beneficiary of the payment to be made public but we did not go all the way. the data will be collected and there will be... (speaker interrupted by the speaker)... these are the main features of the new regulation and i now turn to the debate, where i look forward to the speeches.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. my colleagues and commissioner, the eu must take its responsibility to the sea and that is what we are doing now with all the processes going on both in the european commission and here in the european parliament, for example the communication on marine governance and all the elements of the reformed basic regulation. we also have the work of the un, our sustainable development goal 14 that stipulates healthy oceans, stopping overfishing and pollution. our oceans play a crucial role as a buffer against the effects of climate change, so they absorb large amounts of carbon dioxide. but both ocean acidification and global warming are affecting fish stocks and marine ecosystems, which are changing rapidly before our eyes. i am dedicated to continuing to work with all actors in the eu system: industry, the european commission and non-profit organisations, to stop illegal fishing and overfishing. the work on this regulation is an important step along the way, but it is not enough. we can't just settle for nothing. we are far from managing our common resources in a sustainable way. we need to do much more, and the european parliament has an extremely important role to play in this. we are the direct voice of the citizens and we will use it to increase transparency and accountability in the fisheries sector. i would urge the commission to take the opportunity to take a hard line against member states that are not doing their job. if a boat repeatedly commits infringements and serious crimes, then that permit should be withdrawn. if the member state is unable to do so, the european commission must be able to take action. i would also like to call on the european commission to promote greater transparency in the fisheries sector. for too long, our common assets have been decided in closed and secret meetings. our tax dollars should not be used to support overfishing. there must be an end to piracy and crime at sea. only then can we build a peaceful and sustainable world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we speak, aviation emissions continue to rise, and it is time for the eu to act now to reverse the trend and drastically reduce aviation emissions. air travel has to pay for its share of climate change just like everyone else. it is good that the eu is now taking a step forward to actually do so in terms of aviation's share of the eu's emissions trading. but it can't stay here. we have to include the so-called altitude effects. it's three to four times more damaging to the climate when you put greenhouse gases up in the air, but even so, we count the emissions as if they were on the ground. we must also include travel to and from airports outside europe. if you fly from stockholm to new york or bangkok, you are currently paying nothing for your climate impact, and that is not the way it should continue. we need to reduce emissions from all air travel to and from all airports in the world.
mr president, 22 years ago we stopped the war in bosnia by pushing a constitution on that country that nobody wanted. this created a country with three presidents, believe it or not 280 ministers, two entities, 10 cantons – and every one of these has a right of veto. the country is obviously impossible to govern and now, 22 years later, one of the main reasons why bosnia is not to be considered a frontrunner for the coming commission strategy for the western balkans is the lack of progress, but that lack of progress was created by the constitution we pushed on that country. nobody wanted it – no bosniaks, no serbs, no croats, no jews – so it is time to stop pretending. i demand that the commission include all that country in the coming strategy and not exclude anyone.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the security situation in afghanistan has deteriorated again and according to the un there are over 1.8 million internally displaced persons in afghanistan. on average, 1,500 people a day are fleeing internally. in 2016 alone, there was an increase of 650,000. afghanistan is also one of the poorest countries in the world and the situation is aggravated by the social and economic difficulties of integrating all internally displaced persons and the thousands of afghan refugees returning daily from neighbouring countries, while all afghan youth are also entering the labour market. pakistan alone hosts 1.7 million afghan refugees, and iran hosts 1 million, whom the authorities there want to send back. it should be added that even eu countries, which actually help to take in a very small proportion of the afghan refugees, are sending back even young people who have been refugees all their lives and never set foot in the country. and how is afghanistan supposed to recover, achieve peace, get out of poverty, corruption, drug trafficking and meet the challenge of creating jobs for both those who already live there and those who return, when the great danger is that those who are sent back are captured by the taliban, daesh or other criminal gangs as their only means of subsistence. we're not going to solve this by just expanding our military efforts or, for that matter, our civilian efforts. what i find very problematic about our policy is the contradiction that while member states are increasing their military presence in the country because of the deteriorating security situation, we are sending afghans back against the backdrop of an improved security situation. how are we supposed to feel? if it's so safe to go back without a problem, there shouldn't be any need to send more soldiers.
mr president, in october, the european council adopted the new eu strategy for afghanistan. the council wants an inclusive peace process although the security situation is worsening. taliban attacks on both civilian and military targets continue. given this, it is not acceptable that the council refrains from mentioning the role of neighbouring pakistan in harbouring taliban fighters. contrary to pakistani claims that it has solved this problem, the commander of the nato forces in afghanistan stated just two weeks ago that pakistan had yet to act against afghan taliban. as an example, the haqqani network is still operating from pakistan. owing to its brutal attacks on innocent civilians and foreign embassies, haqqani is considered the most ruthless terrorist network in afghanistan. combating taliban terrorists is imperative for the whole region. pakistan must take its responsibility for regional stability. pakistan must not be a safe haven for the taliban. the eu should say this, and we should say it loud and clear.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? yesterday a plane flew from sweden. there were supposed to be 20 people on that plane, but thankfully, thanks to activists, lawyers and brave people who put a stop to it, there were only five people on that plane. but these five are a sadness. they went to the war in afghanistan. they were sent there and i think it is a disgrace for the eu and for sweden that these expulsions, these forced deportations, are allowed to continue and that the eu's cooperation with afghanistan is to such an extent conditioned by these expulsions. i would just like to say thank you to the over 200 german pilots who have refused to take off their planes to the war in afghanistan. every plane that doesn't take off and land in afghanistan with deported refugees is a victory for all of us and for humanity. so my question is: when will you, the commission, put an end to this policy? when are you going to choose human rights, hope and humanity over this kind of racism and deportation policy?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the situation of the rohingya people is our grave concern. as people, as politicians, as human rights defenders, it is our obligation to take immediate action. i am happy to hear the commissioner talking about the action taken, but i do not think it is enough. we have to speed up. it is our obligation to end the ongoing genocide in myanmar. we have to use every tool available – arms embargo, punitive sanctions, trade agreements – and we have to strive for justice for the rohingya people. six hundred and fifty thousand rohingyas have fled their homes, their villages set on fire with petrol bombs. they have endured rape as a weapon of war; they have seen sex trafficking of women and the kidnapping of children who are being sold as sex slaves. the military forces cannot have impunity. they need to be put on trial. as for the nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi, her prize should be withdrawn if she does not stop her silence. the rohingya people need to be recognised as an ethnic minority in myanmar and should be compensated for all the violence they have been facing. it is now up to us, the international community, to give justice to the rohingya people. as human rights are universal, so also our solidarity should be universal.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are living in a time of new security challenges for europe and this automatically means that we must adapt our policy to the changed situation. but at the same time we must have a stomach for it and not let ourselves be carried away by a host of ill-conceived proposals and measures which are sometimes even contrary to the treaty, and that is where we are today. we greens believe that instead of the eu taking on new tasks, we should be better at the ones we already have today. this includes different types of peace operations and work before, during and after a conflict, including assistance. we also want to reform the eu's battlegroup so that it can actually be used in eu or un peacekeeping operations and we want to see more cooperation between eu countries, not least in defence equipment. we therefore look more favourably on the voluntary cooperation in pesco, which has long been enshrined in the treaty. we are, however, very much against a quantitative target for member states' defence budgets, and believe that targets should be qualitative, i.e. a budget for real needs with a focus on increased defence capability. the two percent target is not a guarantee of increased defense capability. the only clear winner is the arms industry. investments must be smart and effective to provide greater security for money, rather than risking contributing to arms races and increased tensions. today, the eu member states spend the most in the world on defence after the us, but we get relatively little for the money, just as mrs mogherini said, because each country holds its own defence industry in the palm of its hand with ineffective subsidies. the result is that we have an overproduction of defence equipment in the eu. it drives countries to sell their surpluses abroad to sometimes hesitant buyers. and the commission has recently calculated that we could save between 25 and 100 billion euros on increased cooperation in the field of defence equipment, and through increased cooperation and coordination, the funds released could be reinvested in enhanced defence capabilities and, moreover, make it easier for member states to cooperate in eu peace efforts. in conclusion, we are in favour of increased cooperation on material and greater joint involvement in conflict prevention and peace-building. we are opposed to the gradual transfer of power over defence policy to the eu. we do not want to see an eu defence budget or a defence fund, a defence industrial programme, an eu defence department or an eu army. we want the eu to remain a peace project, not a military alliance or a responsibility for europe's territorial defence. i have a question for mrs mogherini, and it also concerns the letter from four political groups to the high representative on an arms embargo against saudi arabia - something we have already taken a position on three times in this parliament. is something wrong? is there any initiative at eu level to stop arms exports to saudi arabia?
madam president, i would like to thank you. mrs mogherini, please! it is important that there is a decision-making capacity in the eu when there are rapid shifts in social developments and when risks arise or grow. these can be refugee crises, climate crises, but of course also security crises. however, since we live in a europe with great diversity, it is equally important for this cohesion and this capacity to react that cooperation within pesco remains intergovernmental. new institutional structures must be avoided. the so-called common defence and security policy must be concerned with peace and conflict prevention outside the eu. i am not at all ashamed to say that i come from a country where we have lived in peace for over 200 years. it has meant that we have taken on a great responsibility for those who have not been able to live in peace, and i am not at all ashamed of it, and i call for intergovernmental action in this area. why should we be forced into war?
mr president, let me start with some facts. except in some periods under the crusaders, jerusalem has never been the capital of any country other than israel, and never for any other people except the jewish people. the us demands to move its embassy to west jerusalem, which has been part of the state of israel since its foundation. having said this, it would have been preferable if this us decision had been taken as a result of direct negotiations between the parties, so it is therefore a correct decision in principle but with adverse timing. according to the high representative, the eu as a whole stands behind the position of not recognising jerusalem as the capital of israel. ms mogherini calls the unilateral decision of the us very worrying. fair enough. however, why is it that the high representative did not denounce another unilateral decision, about recognising the palestinian state, taken by the swedish socialist government in 2014? why is it that the high representative is expressing deep worries regarding one unilateral move, but not another? where is the consistent and balanced approach towards israel, ms mogherini?
mr. talman, what are you doing? the question is: who owns the status of jerusalem? yes, donald trump apparently thought he had it. he says he's just fulfilling an election promise, and then he decides in one fell swoop that jerusalem is the capital of israel. the resolution is not in accordance with international law, not with un security council resolutions, and it has led to strong reactions, to increased instability, to violence and unrest. but none of this is something trump needs to worry about. instead, synagogues are burning. israelis and palestinians are being injured, stoned, killed, and in my country, in gothenburg and malmö, synagogues have also been attacked, which is terrible. jerusalem belongs to jews, muslims, christians, palestinians and israelis. a two-state solution with jerusalem as the capital of both palestine and israel is at the heart of such a solution. the eu must now take the lead. now we must get this sorted out before it has even worse consequences than those we have already seen in the last few days.
madam president, thank you very much, and thanks to mr barnier for having achieved sufficient progress in the negotiations. now we need to go on further with the aim of a friendly brexit negotiated with the government of the united kingdom, not undermined by the political forces here who are not even represented in the british parliament. they are not only trying to undermine the negotiations; they are undermining the united kingdom’s potential in the future. second, when the eu gets smaller, we need to get taller; we need to develop new trade relations in order to support not only economic development, but also strengthen a liberal world order. we need to ensure that we can have the strength in developing the european union, not just by discussing form, but by securing that we have the right policies that can make our union strong. (applause)
mr president, i welcome the results of the negotiations on brexit, simply because we need clarity on this. however, we still don’t know what it means. will the commitments made on northern ireland be upheld in practice? will northern ireland become collateral damage in the brexit negotiations? will my son be able to reside, educate himself and get a good career in the uk if he marries somebody from northern ireland? the signals from the british government have been clearly confusing. mr davis said yesterday that the agreement is not a legally enforceable thing. sorry, but what does that mean? we need time to stop this confusion: the uk government must stick to its commitments and translate them into legally binding text. we are worried about peace in northern ireland and that must be valued higher than the internal power struggle in the british government.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. i think it is right that the european parliament is continuously dealing with brexit, because we are the key decision-making body on the final settlement of the relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. i am one of those who advocate pragmatism in negotiating future relations with the uk and the removal of ideological labels and personal antipathies. i'm glad that it looks like the first phase of brexit is settled, that is, the things that have been agreed on for the citizens of the european union in the united kingdom and the commitments of the united kingdom to the european union. now is the time to address our future relationships. i personally support the best possible cooperation because i believe it is good for european trade. i'm from the czech republic, it's important for czech business to export further to the uk and i personally would not support any obstacles.
mr president, i welcome the eu-uk deal as a good basis to move ahead. as the clock is ticking, it is important to break the deadlock. congratulations and full support to the eu negotiator michel barnier. an agreement is an agreement. the commitment must now be cast in stone, but polarisation and lack of clarity in the uk is hampering the process. we need to know what downing street wants. it is most important that eu citizens’ right to live, study, work and unite with their families in the uk must be turned into law after brexit. i also fully support irish people in ensuring continued free movement between the republic of ireland and northern ireland. i just do not see how to avoid a hard border when the uk leaves the single market. the treaty principles are non-negotiable. the internal market with its freedom is indivisible. the time has come to tell the truth about the consequences of leaving the single market. even the best free-trade agreement is a setback compared to single market benefits. there is no soft brexit, and i conclude: only damage control. now negotiations should proceed with calm, focusing on the long-term interests of the people of the uk and of the eu.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, securing a common area of free movement for people within the schengen area is one of the biggest achievements of the european project, as it brings people together, makes life simpler for businesses and builds a sense of belonging together. during the last few years, this historical achievement has been put under threat. under pressure caused by the collapse of the asylum system in 2015 and the unwillingness of certain member states to address the obvious flaws in the dublin regulation, we have seen a domino effect in play among member states as they start to reintroduce border controls. the schengen area also faces another fundamental challenge, namely the discrimination against bulgaria and romania. both of these eu countries have for a long time now fulfilled all the criteria for joining the schengen area but are still being refused access by other member states of this union, and for political reasons alone. this is unacceptable and has to come to an end. we cannot, on the one hand, criticise certain member states for not respecting due process and then ignore ourselves the rules that we have set up for accession to the schengen zone! i am proud that this parliament always fights for the union and for the rights of its citizens. today, i would like to reach out to romanian and bulgarian citizens and say that you enjoy the same rights and the same values as any other european citizen! member states need to show respect for common agreements, allow for the full integration of these two countries into the schengen area without any further delay, and allow the full integration of croatia as well, as soon as it meets the criteria.
mr president, i would like to thank you. schengen is one of the benefits that eu citizens value most in the eu. it has brought significant benefits to eu citizens and businesses alike, enabling over 400 million europeans from 26 european countries to travel without a passport. in the context of the 2015 refugee crisis, it was put to the test when several member states reintroduced border controls, including my own, sweden. the introduction of the controls in 2016 had far-reaching economic consequences as the commuting time increased and the number of travellers between sweden and denmark decreased by 15%. it cost the region 152 million, but only 78 people out of the approximately three million people screened were refugees. the idea is that all member states will join schengen as soon as the conditions are met. but we cannot invent new requirements for acceding countries other than those already in the existing legal framework. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the same applies, of course, to croatia, where the technical criteria are met.
mr president, the eu is in the fifth year of the growth – economic recovery – 250 million more people are at work. so yes, it is time to fix the roof when the sun is shining. some improvement of the necessary living and working conditions, gender equality, etc., is necessary. nevertheless, commissioner, i feel that a social pillar might be just partly about it. the bigger part is about minimising the extreme-right parties. we have realised that they are creating a problem in every single european country, making it impossible to form the government, spreading xenophobia, etc., which are serious problems, and therefore we started to fight them by closing the borders and starting to be protectionistic. i feel this is the wrong way to go. it might jeopardise growth, it might jeopardise openness and mobility, and it might end up by not minimising the extreme right. then we have a double problem. the social dimension is the right strategy if we want the eu to be something more than a single market, but do not let it be nationalism and protectionism. we need openness and growth, and we need to protect it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for your question. as i said, the social pillar is necessary to fix the things that have not been fixed. minimising the influence of extreme-right parties is not something that i will be sorry about, and if this is done, i will be happy. but the problem with that is, as i said, that we cannot let it be protectionism and nationalism by itself. we have to keep openness, we have to keep growth, and we have to fight for it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i still remember the first time i read about this provision when i was analysing the eu constitution back in the autumn of 2003. then i read the text that has now become article 226 of the lisbon treaty and i thought, yes, this is a really good thing. it could be really useful. and yet we are still here, almost a whole political life later, and we have still not managed to get this made a reality. a committee of inquiry is a key feature of parliamentarianism. this is a fundamental right for parliament, and without an effective tool for committees of inquiry the european parliament will have difficulties in fulfilling its role as an effective control of the executive, of the implementation and enforcement of regulations, etc. it is long overdue. as a parliament we have repeatedly proposed such regulations and we have repeatedly, formally and informally, explained our openness and willingness to negotiate. nothing helped! the council stubbornly refuses to negotiate with parliament and to grant it only a part of its natural and necessary rights. this is problematic. the experiences of the recent committees of inquiry on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana) and on emission measurements in the automotive sector (emis) show the true value of committees of inquiry and they also show that this system can be improved. let’s start to negotiate for real.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this important debate which reflected the constructive spirit with which this file needs to be approached. i have taken good note of this discussion and all your remarks, and will not fail to inform my colleague first vice-president, mr timmermans, under whose remit this file falls within this commission, about its outcome in detail. let me reiterate that the commission attaches great importance to parliament’s role of scrutiny and political control. the ultimate aim of this control is to guarantee that citizens’ concerns regarding the implementation of european union law are properly addressed. this is what the treaty stipulates. however, i have also stated our genuine concerns, that need to be redressed. the trilateral work that has been done so far, including by our legal experts, and the practical experiences with parliament’s recent committees of inquiry have shown us where common ground exists and where divergences still exist and need to be brought together. it goes without saying that the commission stands ready at any time to resume constructive trilateral discussions at the appropriate level with a view to finding solutions that can reconcile the outstanding concerns of the three institutions.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank you for this open and frank exchange of views which has allowed us to clarify our respective positions. i trust that we will soon have a joint paper of the legal services on the table, on the basis on which we can continue our discussions. let me reaffirm the council’s willingness and commitment to engage with the european parliament. after all, it is in our common interest to have clear and up-to-date rules governing the exercise of the european parliament’s rights of inquiry so that all actors know precisely what are their rights and obligations. mr president, since this is my last intervention on behalf of the estonian presidency and of the council, let me say a couple of words in my mother tongue, estonian. euroopa parlamendil on jäänud sellest meie ühisest toimetamisest siin head mälestused ja hea kogemus. me oleme võtnud oma tööd, oma eesistujatööd väga tõsiselt. me oleme töötanud oma parimal pühendunud viisil, nagu laulus öeldakse, et kulmud kuumavad töös, ja ma loodan, et meil on õnnestunud teile sellega ka muljet avaldada. kuna meil eestis ei ole nagu kombeks oma tundeid liiga reljeefselt väljendada, siis ütlen lihtsalt aitäh ja – polnudki üldse hull.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank wholeheartedly the estonian presidency for the excellent work and cooperation. our report is a call of urgent action to join forces to stop child sexual abuse and protect children. the directive to combat child sexual abuse, online and offline is a historic step forward. we have provided a strong legal framework with stricter sanctions and common standards to prevent and prosecute crimes and protect victims. but implementation is far from satisfactory. member states must do more, better and faster, to ensure zero tolerance against child sexual abuse and exploitation. we are talking about such terrible crimes that police dealing with these cases take turns on duty and need support. when shown on the deep web the images, the cheers of enjoyment among perpetrators – i just couldn’t sleep at night. what if it was your child? a missing child? an unaccompanied minor? any child? this concerns all children in europe. an entire generation that lives on the net. with our report we modernise european policies. since 2011 new forms of crime such as revenge pornography and sex extortion affect many teenagers online – mainly girls – and cyber bullying and grooming have grown. moreover, thousands of migrant children have disappeared, are sold and sexually exploited by organised crime in europe, making billions on children’s skin. trafficking is the slavery of our times against the most vulnerable kids. criminal networks and child sexual abuse online are sophisticated, and law enforcement authorities face new challenges. we cannot lag behind for lack of resources and modern means of prosecution. therefore, we call on the member states to give adequate resources to police, to child hotlines and helplines, to enforce the directive in a future—proof way, upgrading digital investigation tools to keep pace with technology, to remove illegal material at source and block it when it is not possible to remove, with faster procedures and safeguards, and to increase cooperation with third countries, interpol and our great american partner nmec to remove illegal material when the source is outside the eu. we also urge the internet industry to take their shared responsibility. much is being done, but it is not enough. the technology to detect, generate alarms, report to the police child sexual abuse material online exists – it should be used by all the it industry. they should also work on innovative solutions to protect children online. migrant children are particularly exposed to child exploitation. member states must ensure that they enter and remain in the protection system. minors must be registered with fingerprints and given a guardian to avoid going missing. the time has come for all the member states to fully enforce the anti-trafficking and protection of victims directive. we need to ensure that there is no impunity for any child sexual offender. perpetrators must be brought to justice. children are right-holders. they must feel it is not their fault, that their voice is heard. civil society plays a key role, taking children by the hand and assisting them in building trust. children must be protected throughout the proceedings. interrogation trials must be child-friendly to avoid double victimisation and victim blaming. the time has come to break the silence and shift the guilt from child victims to adult perpetrators. let’s launch a ‘me too’—like movement for children – ‘kids too’. if it is hard for woman to speak up, to share her story, to get justice, how hard can it be for a kid or a teenager? we need to mobilise, raise awareness and make sure children get justice and support. today we reach out to all children who feel scared, ashamed, lonely and we say you are not alone. we care. we are determined to join forces to ensure that europe truly means safety for all children
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you all for this very interesting and, believe me, necessary discussion tonight. the fight against child sexual abuse and sexual exploitation is the duty of our entire society, and all actors must contribute to it. we, as commissioners, are ready to play our own part, but we all must work together to fight this terrible crime in order to protect and defend our children. as i said at the beginning, it is not only about legislation, it is also about effective and immediate action. i therefore welcome your contributions to keep this very important issue high on all our agendas. such a crime against children who – as very correctly was said tonight – are the most vulnerable in our societies is the most atrocious crime, and we must fight together until we can manage to eradicate it entirely. thank you for your contributions tonight; together, we have made a step forward. once again, my thanks to the rapporteur.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to thank all colleagues, especially my shadows, for their great support for my report. together, let us really make sure that the member states prioritise child protection. i would also tonight like to pay tribute to the police, the judges, the lawyers, the ngos, the inhope network, eurojust, europol, the eu anti-trafficking coordinator, the fundamental rights agency, for their relentless efforts to protect children. they are the heroes of our time and deserve our support. according to unicef, 53% of children abused are as young as 10 years old, and sexual abuse causes longstanding trauma for children. often kids denounce their aggressors only when they are adults. therefore we call on the member states to extend the statute of limitation for these crimes. i welcome the fact that france has just passed a law to this effect. we also asked for the adoption of aggravating sanctions for offenders who are in a position of trust and authority – teachers, guardians, coaches, a relative – and mandatory background checks. you said it, commissioner, and i am glad you are going to follow up on our new proposals for persons working with children. tougher sanctions also for offences against children with disabilities. as regards orphans: yes, institutions that cover up crimes should be held liable, because silence is complicity. on sex tourism, i would like to say that it is criminalised by the anti-trafficking directive. it is a crime under european law, and member states must do more on prevention: setting up prevention programmes, identifying men at risk of recidivism, training officials, and education for children and parents on the risk of the net. it is important to empower our kids to defend themselves on the net. updating registers of child sexual offenders and sharing information on criminal convictions and disqualifications. child sexual abuse is a cross-border crime and it requires a european response. we have to make full use of the tools that are available at european level – the european investigation order, the arrest warrant and the joint investigation teams – and we have to share best practices on investigation tools; covert infiltration is not used enough by all the member states. we also need to improve information-sharing and interoperability. i shall finish by responding to the issue of data. yes, we need more data from the member states so that the commission can really make a thorough assessment. let me assure you that, together with the intergroup on children’s rights, whom i would like to thank especially here tonight, we are going to continue to be committed and follow up on the commission, with the member states. we are not going to give up as long as everything that is in the directive and the additional issues are going to be implemented. with our vote tomorrow, let’s send a strong and united message to the member states that it is time to go from words to action to stop child sexual abuse.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are now discussing how to re-engineer europe's transport system to achieve a low-emission transport system, which is crucial if we are to deliver on our paris commitments. i would like to make three suggestions. the first proposal: distance-based charges for road freight transport. we must apply the market economy idea of the polluter pays. it's the one who causes the problem who has to pay for the solution. and then it must be more profitable to move freight traffic from roads to trains, and then the trucks will pay for their climate costs. it must also be the case that, through charges, it contributes to innovation and efficiency on the roads, because today our roads are filled with half-empty trucks. if we move more traffic from roads to trains, it will create space for those who actually have to use the roads in the future. two, the plane has to pay for its climate impact. it's unreasonable for an airplane to be able to evade the climate bill. while it is good that the eu is now taking steps to start including aviation in the eu emissions trading scheme, we are still far from having to pay the full climate bill for aviation. we must include air travel to and from airports outside europe. we also have to include the so-called altitude effects. the climate is affected more when airplanes emit climate-damaging gases in the air than on the ground, but even so, it is not included in the system at the moment. it's not reasonable. three: major investments in sustainable infrastructure. for my two previous proposals, it means increased tax revenues which we can then use for massive infrastructure investments. but if we are to meet our climate goals, from now on, all investments must be made in a sustainable direction. this means more public transport, more railways, more high-speed trains and night trains. if we do this, we will make it easier for people in the future to do what is simple, cheap and smart for the climate. that is what we greens will fight for.
author. – madam president, in vietnam, like all over the world, human rights defenders are facing increasing pressure for their brave stand. in fact, our human rights are globally facing increasing pressure from nationalists, fascists and political actors not interested in democracy and freedom. we can act as politicians and we shall. but the ones making human rights come alive are civil society: the human rights defenders on the ground; the ones facing reality. by simply doing their work human rights defenders, journalists, bloggers, writers and activists are being imprisoned and attacked. more than one hundred vietnamese people are currently behind bars for their political or religious beliefs. we call on the vietnamese authorities to release them. the human rights defenders of the world need the eu to take a clear stand for them, for their work, and demand that regimes, like the one in vietnam, stop harassing those who fight for justice.
author. – madam president, i would like to say to the salvadorian authorities: who are you to decide on women’s lives or women’s bodies? how can a miscarriage be criminalised? we, as parliamentarians, with our democratic values and respect for human rights, take a stand against your violations. states and churches do not have the right to violate our human dignity. my body is my body and it is my decision whether to have an abortion or not. every woman across the world is entitled to make her choice for herself. we stand up for women who have been targeted under these laws. i call on the salvadorian authorities: release the women from prison, abolish the laws that require hospitals to report women seeking health care to the police. our resolution shows that we are taking action against all forms of violations of women’s human rights. as a strong feministic politician, i stand in international solidarity with all women and the right to decide over our bodies and lives. today we got the news about teodora vásquez. she has had her appeal rejected so her sentence to 30 years in prison stands. this is disgusting in el salvador. and i want to say to mr jurek: do you find this is justice, 30 years of prison because of this? how can you look on this as a criminal action? shame on you! (applause) (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from bernd lucke)
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the great support. let us join forces today to send a clear and strong message to all member states that they have to do more – better and faster – to protect children. let us, together with the law enforcement authorities, civil society and the it industry, stand up for zero tolerance against child sexual abuse and exploitation, online and offline. it is really time to go from words to action and ensure that europe truly means safety for all kids. (applause)
