mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we all want to get the european political debate back on track. this requires not only political will but also a europe-wide, comprehensive information and communication campaign adapted to the target groups. because only information creates consciousness. we do not have an eu-wide textbook and workbook for our schools. the austrian journalists wolfgang böhm and otmar lahodynsky, with the support of the federal ministry of education, science and culture, have written one that could be used in all european countries with only a few changes. i ask you, mr president, to ensure that this book is published and offered in all eu info points and eu information offices. we also developed a youth-friendly eu quiz with 40 questions and answers, which is also suitable for all eu countries without major adaptations. i ask you, mr president, to help ensure that these two publications are included in plan d and that a pan-european reading book and information campaign can be launched.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. austria will now hold the presidency for the second time since its accession to the european union in 1995. the presidency is expected to take appropriate initiatives. it was particularly good news for me that just before the start of the austrian presidency export refunds for live animals were finally partly abolished. i would like to make a very strong appeal to the presidency to abolish all export subsidies for live animals in the short term, to restrict the transport of live animals within europe in the medium term and finally to establish animal welfare as a central european legal asset. even in the member states of the union, animals of all breeds are still kept in catastrophic conditions - for example, as recently reported by the austrian animal welfare association, in a zoo in italy - or are transported. this should be stopped immediately!
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. trafficking in women and people is a taboo subject when compared to statistics and requirements in the animal trade. man does not seem to be so valuable compared with the animals. the number of women and children trafficked each year is increasing dramatically. there are no fixed statistics and estimates vary between 800 000 and 3-4 million women and children a year. this is a number that should shake us up and make us aware that action is necessary. organized crime is on the rise, trafficking rings are becoming more flexible in their techniques and routes. demand is increasing. the market is booming. trafficking in women is a crime and a modern form of slavery. they require increased criminal investigation and prosecution, care and support for victims and preventive measures. we need a holistic, integrated and interdisciplinary approach at eu and international level. it is holistic because the fight against trafficking in human beings must focus on the triangle of victim, customer and trader. the smugglers, pimps, middlemen and all the relevant bodies, as well as those who profit from them, must not be forgotten. the main objective must be to tackle the most obvious factors, such as the feminization of poverty, the high unemployment rate, the wealth gap and the high potential for violence. the report therefore makes specific demands, such as: the prevention and action against trafficking in human beings must be used at eu level within the framework of the eu's neighbourhood policy, development policy, foreign policy and many other possible horizontal policy areas. eu aid policy must also focus more on poverty reduction and thus indirectly on trafficking in human beings. but it is also necessary to analyse the policies of the world bank and other large institutions to see whether the money really reaches those who need it and whether it does not have the opposite effect. because we know that international development policies do not always reduce poverty, but can actually contribute to further marginalization of vulnerable groups. a major gap is the lack of a database. we therefore need a uniform data collection system to be developed by the european commission together with other international organisations. it is only by adopting the same approach to the survey that we will arrive at the same results. we need information campaigns in the countries of origin and transit. an annual anti-trafficking day with a logo that makes the scale of the problem visible would also be necessary. the european union, i.e. the member states, should take the following measures: training campaigns particularly in dealing with victims in the existing structures such as police schools, social academies, legal training and the like. and increased cooperation with ngos and the executive. we also need the financial and human resources of law enforcement agencies and of counselling centres for trafficking in women. national and international telephone helplines must be set up and made public on national and local television. the existing visa practices must also be reviewed, as must the diplomatic networks in which such things occur. we particularly urge a residence permit for victims not only during but also after the end of a trial. the testimony of a victim can be a valuable aid in identifying the perpetrators. we know that many are reluctant to testify for fear of embarrassment and also for fear of deportation. we need to rethink this. it would also be necessary to accept anonymous statements from victims and also from suitors in order to trace the perpetrators. on the demand side, awareness campaigns must be launched to raise awareness of the catastrophic excesses that are taking place. i'd also like to have anonymous hotlines for suitors to talk to. i am against the criminalization of unmarried women in general, and i was very concerned in this report not to put the question of national legislation on prostitution at the centre of the report and thus not to sacrifice a global problem to national differences. i would also like to mention that only recently the international committee for the rights of sex workers has called for eu-wide social rights and legalization. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. in belgium, identity cards for children are not numbered. they're being held back and then used for child trafficking. i would like to encourage the introduction of a numbering system. so we have a lot of work to do to combat human trafficking, and we have to be aware of the disasters that are happening right on our doorstep.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that global industrialization and explosive population growth, but also changes in nature, have triggered a threatening climate change. we also know that even with zero growth in greenhouse gas concentrations, it cannot be stopped. in 2005, nature showed us what it is capable of in the form of massive disasters. these disasters may be just a first taste of what we may have to expect in the future. despite the enormous damage done in the united states and australia, these countries are not even ready to finally implement the kyoto protocol. here we must increase the pressure on those six countries which are responsible for almost 50% of the world's greenhouse gas production. but we in europe are not much better off if we now again promote nuclear power as a kyoto-friendly alternative. if we do not start soon to use our advanced, environmentally friendly power and energy technologies, to put a stop to water waste and to remove subsidies for transport across europe, we will condemn our children and grandchildren to a life of permanent ecological emergency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and when the demonstrations turn violent, we know that the interests of the people seem to be very much in the forefront. but the slogans and the slogans, unfortunately, obscure the real alternatives. the main issue is not the principles of liberalization, transparency and the like, but the details of the specific rules, as always. i therefore support the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, in this debate on the way forward with regard to this directive, who wants to improve the commission's proposal, which was admittedly not a good one. and i'm not happy about the "back to square one" slogan. we'd only be wasting a lot of time here. the demand for white papers or even green papers shows that we want to have five years of peace before the european legislator. i see a parallel in this discussion not only to the discussion on the services directive which we will be having next month, but also to the constitutional debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you just don't want to go through a hundred details. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this brings media attention, but it does not help anyone in the common europe to find better and more workable solutions. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. air transport is one of the largest and most important sectors for growth. this is undeniable, and we all became aware of this in the discussion of these two reports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of aircraft is not compromised. in the field of aviation safety, we urgently need the right of mutual inspection; we need this also within safa, and we need - this is an important step forward, which has already been discussed here - the training of control staff and the exchange of information with third countries. however, the contribution of air transport to the failure to meet the kyoto target is equally relevant. if action is not taken, air transport will consume all the emissions margins within the kyoto protocol that are saved by the other sectors. this means that industry is saving emissions, households are saving emissions, and air traffic will consume them if we do not act. therefore, the debate on possible measures whether in the tax area or in the area of emissions trading must remain open. this is a question we must consider if we are to take kyoto seriously. at the same time, we must raise the issue of noise pollution and regional night flight bans, including at international level, and prevent possible social dumping. however, within the open sky - and important steps have already been taken - europe must speak with confidence and with one voice, so that there is balance and no one nation or complex enjoys advantages in global competition that all others do not.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. i think that a reform of international civil aviation also includes the possibility of creating a common aviation area with uniform standards. aspects such as the efficiency and safety of air operations are not only a contribution to the union's neighbourhood policy but also in our own interest. it is therefore of the utmost importance for the safety of all of us that uniform standards of aviation safety should also be included in new air transport agreements with third countries. this is the only way to prevent future aircraft accidents and to ensure a uniformly high level of safety. but if necessary, and this is something to consider, we must provide assistance to those countries which cannot meet these technical standards. it is not only the respect of common rules in the field of aviation safety that is important, but above all the social and environmental policy areas. in the current bilateral agreements there are very few or no references to such provisions. the opening up of the air transport market must in no way be to the detriment of workers who may be employed in third countries under less stringent social legislation. such a situation would also represent a significant safety risk if these workers were to work in unacceptable conditions. if the same rules for market intervention apply to all parties, then social dumping at the expense of aviation safety will not have a chance in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have the honour to make the following explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation from the epp. the catania report on the fourth commission report on citizenship of the union was, in our opinion, a complete misrepresentation of the subject. at a time when the public is sceptical about many of the union's activities, citizenship of the union must be treated with the necessary seriousness. unfortunately, this report has only dealt with the situation of immigrants and not the needs of the citizens of europe themselves. i would like to make it clear that citizens who want to come to the european union from third countries, i.e. immigrants or asylum seekers, deserve much more serious and respectful treatment than is provided for in this report. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. declining voter turnout, negative referenda and growing eu frustration show that the european citizen cannot be won over by common anthems or flags. it is not about how the union presents itself, for example through the draft constitution, but about what it does. strengthening eu citizenship will not turn eu sceptics into the enthusiasts we want, especially as long as we do not have eu-wide minimum standards for naturalisation and do not eliminate asylum abuse. the london attacks, the van gogh murder and the french street battles show that in future we will have to examine carefully the integration capacity of those who wish to become citizens in the respective mainstream culture. the lack of acceptance of the european legal and cultural order by european muslims is a fact which the eu can no longer trivialize under the slogan 'multiculturalism'. the practice of mass legalisation, which has turned millions of illegal immigrants into 'europeans', must also be brought to an end. the schengen information system should also be able to indicate in future whether there are embassies issuing entry visas as if they were on a conveyor belt. as long as the schengen treaty does not work and we do not get to grips with the problem of parallel societies, as long as we cannot guarantee the protection of our indigenous european peoples, we do not need to continue dreaming of the guarantee of the union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the breakdown of state structures in multicultural societies, the transition to market economies in eastern european countries, and thus the favourable treatment of mafia structures, and the opening of borders to mass migration have all favoured the trade in human beings, which is even more lucrative than the trade in arms and drugs. since victims remain silent out of shame or fear, and since half of the trafficked women and children are trafficked again after returning home, the perpetrators usually get away with it. we need to prevent this by informing potential victims as early as possible and by raising public awareness of the problem. we also need to finally impose high penalties on paedophilia and even higher penalties on organised trafficking in human beings throughout the eu.
mr president, i would ask that the damage caused by yesterday's demonstration in parliament be paid for by those who caused it.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i support what the council and the commission have said on european energy policy. i think we need to be a little more concrete and specific in some areas. firstly, the major consumers in the eu, the usa, china and india must act more closely together in the market and not merely compete with producers. secondly, on infrastructure: we should think about how we can own and manage infrastructure in a community, not as a state, but with our companies and enterprises, so that there are no monopolies. thirdly, from textiles to shrimp, there are wto dispute settlement procedures. for products as important as gas or oil, there is no such procedure. we have to do something. fourthly, we need to build up the infrastructure. the minister mentioned the nabucco project, a very important project which the european union should support. fifthly, all the member states must diversify and make proposals so that a common european programme can be created on the basis of these proposals. sixthly, priority must of course be given to renewable resources. mr president-in-office, i share your scepticism about nuclear energy. but the debate will be held, and we must ensure that all the positive and critical elements are included in the debate, including the question of the disposal of waste. seventhly, we cannot impose a uniform energy policy on all countries. it is only because of the differentiation of the individual countries that we can advocate a common policy, especially towards the outside world. commissioner, you know that at the hearing i asked you to give me a programme on foreign and energy policy. i did the same thing to mrs ferrero-waldner. unfortunately, we haven't received anything yet. i would ask you to put forward such a programme urgently, at the latest in the green paper, so that we can really advocate a policy which is consistent with the external environment. let me say in conclusion that we want and need a partnership with russia. but what russia has done recently, we cannot accept. we need a russia that is fair to its neighbour, it is our common neighbour. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for his work. after intensive deliberations and negotiations, this compromise was reached in the committee on agriculture and rural development, which i can support. but we must be aware of the impact of these three reports on european agriculture in general and on beet growers in particular and the sugar industry. the sugar sector is an example of the extent to which the wto affects the economy of individual countries, but also the eu as a whole. the committee on agriculture has succeeded in moderating some of the commission's proposals, and i think the result is very acceptable. i hope that in the final negotiations between the council and the commission some of the demands of the committee on agriculture will be taken up. the cultivation of energy crops offers the farmer, at least to a certain extent, the opportunity to find alternatives to sugar beet cultivation and to push non-food production, which is both necessary and also future-oriented. after the cap reform, european agriculture must cope with the next major reform in the shortest possible time. but we have to accept that we live in a connected world. stubbornly insisting on the status quo is certainly not an alternative. for us in the committee on agriculture, it must be possible in future for parliament to have taken its decisions before the council takes a decision. this was an exceptional situation and in view of that situation i am in favour of the procedure. i hope that we will eventually have an active and attractive sugar industry and beet growers in the future too.
i have to say, madam president, we know that since 1968 we have wanted to ensure that, at european level, we could meet our own sugar requirements, that we could meet the demand, if possible, by producing our own sugar. like many good intentions, this one eventually wore out and no doubt began to become a problem. our sugar beet growers have no chance in competing against the warm climate and low wages of the tropics, but it must be said that our sugar is neither harvested by fire nor by child labour, nor is it transported halfway around the world, which is undoubtedly environmentally friendly. when the beet growers were allowed to produce ever greater surpluses and sell them on the world market, subsidized as it were, and thus made all those competitors who could actually produce sugar much cheaper, it was foreseeable that this system would eventually have to collapse. but instead of slowly and sensibly regulating to prevent the worst, for decades people looked the other way. the agreement with the so-called acp countries, whose sugar re-exports were subsidised by eur 800 million, has apparently caused the barrel to overflow. a truly peculiar form of development aid! subsidised sugar exports from the eu used to be considered immoral, now they are illegal. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that our farmers and our sugar factories and their workers emerge as unscathed as possible from this self-made mess.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have already discussed energy security with commissioner piebalgs this afternoon. what is your view of renewable energy in the context of the water framework directive, which is a very important strategy for our future energy security?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank our colleague mr sjöstedt, who has been very careful in conducting the negotiations on parliament's side, and also the commission, which has supported us in our efforts to reach a compromise in the council. i should like to stress the words of my colleague mr olajo, who rightly pointed out that we are really tackling a point with this legislative proposal which directly concerns the safety of our citizens and the safety of the environment, and we are certainly not creating superfluous european regulations which are, so to speak, a burden only on the economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the compromise reached is particularly important in that it now requires guarantees to cover any costs that may be incurred by contaminated land. such arrangements must of course be made in advance, because very often an accident is accompanied by the bankruptcy of a mine operator. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also clarified the scope of the waste management system, in particular in cases where the operator, during the site renovation, is bringing the waste into the waste disposal area. this type of remediation must be carried out in strict compliance with the legislation in order to avoid any contamination of soil and water. in addition, monitoring, maintenance and remediation measures must also be carried out by the operator, who must, for example, collect or treat contaminated water or leakage. it is important that the candidate countries bulgaria and romania also declare that they are complying with the new rules - think of baia mare.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very good work he has done and the commission in particular for the proposal for this directive. i must say that i was a little disappointed with the commission when it delivered its opinion on the council's common position. i would have liked more support for a stronger and more precise line on bathing water quality, because we have softened the standards that the commissioner has mentioned. with the commission's support, we could have put together a stricter directive which would have obliged the member states to introduce higher standards without the much-quoted 'spending money' on the states. let us remember that the main problem of bathing water pollution today is not point pollution but diffuse sources of pollution, particularly from agriculture. we could have made a substantial improvement here with relatively little money. but we have reached a compromise, and compromises are meant to be accepted. i therefore call for the proposal for a directive to be adopted by parliament tomorrow. we've taken a step in the right direction. i now place my hopes in 2008 when the commission will review and evaluate the current situation. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, since you are a swimmer, to ensure that your services carry out this assessment accordingly and perhaps raise the health standards to the oecd level, which all the countries have agreed on together, so that we do not try to level the health standards down. but the bathing waters must have a strong ally in you! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which shows how many different issues we are actually talking about when we use the term 'sustainable development strategy'. sustainable development concerns all the european union's policies, including cooperation with the rest of the world. the commission's communication is a good one. a lot of nice, well-meaning words. however, i am disappointed that the chapter 'setting objectives, targets and milestones' is very short and superficial. you think you know the problems well and you analyze them well, but when it comes to fighting these problems, you're just on the surface. i hope that the strategy announced under the austrian presidency will be more ambitious and will provide more concrete answers. but we cannot limit ourselves to this one strategy. the way in which we will shape the union's finances in the future will also show how seriously we take the issue of sustainable development. if the protection of the environment and species is an important objective of the community, then this must also be reflected in the budget. we must do everything we can to ensure that instruments like life, which are so important for the environment in europe and work well, are adequately funded. the commission's communication lists a number of unsustainable trends, most notably climate change. the commission is therefore called upon to take those measures which are important instruments against climate change. the ecodesign directive adopted last year gives it many opportunities to do so. i hope that the first commission implementing measures on this directive will soon be available, namely for those products which offer a high potential for cost-effective reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! it's a lively morning. let's keep it up. i am convinced, as are many other citizens, that europe would be better off if you were sitting on the other side this morning, if you were president of the commission and not just president of the council for a short while. in your very limited time you cannot make a big move, but you can make some points: energy, subsidiarity. and you can do something about the finances. but please do not be misled by those who have historically proven that they cannot handle money. do not think that more money will automatically make you better! the money's there. we have 112 billion euros. the question is what do you do with it? you yourself, mr chancellor, have said that the question is the most important. you said yourself, trust is a construct. do it now! be specific. tell me who gets what, who pays what from european pots. how many euros have the influential banker and media man, christian konrad, and his friends received in subsidies so far? for hunting purposes, for example? how many euros do the governor, erwin pröll, his friends and his relative, the minister of agriculture, receive in direct subsidies? is it true that in austria alone 427 influential farmers, who are almost exclusively close to your party, receive more than 72 000 euros in direct payments every year? this can be continued. what about danone and france? what about müller-milch and germany? what is the situation in the public sector? open the doors! let me in! make it really clear who gets what. make the council meetings transparent so that we know how such decisions are made. in restoring trust, you should also take care of the government radio station orf. what is the editor-in-chief werner mück doing there? what about the other hearers who are there all the time? there are opportunities. feel them! change your ways! i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia. become a european scout! millions of citizens will thank you for that.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! welcome to the presidency of the council in the european parliament. we are not the only austrians who are delighted that mr wolfgang schüssel has taken over the presidency of the council. your priorities and your political principles are our priorities. we are in the european parliament, unlike the national parliaments, in a semicircle because we need each other. thank you for the impetus to a new coexistence instead of the superficial confrontation and side-by-side and the daily political individual profiling attempts. this speech was a welcome departure from what we have heard in recent months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the book 'hope for europe', in which you yourself wrote about the strategy of working together, kofi annan says: 'we do not need any more promises. we have to start keeping the promises we've already made. i see your speech under that heading. that is why we are in favour of strengthening the smes. but we say no to the 70% cut in the framework programme for competitiveness and innovation for smes. we say yes to education, and therefore we must say no to a 40% cut in this area. we say yes to a transparent, democratic, parliamentary, social and stronger europe, close to the people. but that is why we must reignite the european political debate and involve the citizens. we are in favour of the services directive. let us make it the calling card of the social market economy. we say yes to the community's eu. let us develop it further into political union and strengthen the common foreign and security policy. we need to get closer because we have a lot on the table. let's get on with it!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! mr chancellor, you have said relatively little about future enlargement, although this is a priority of the austrian presidency, on the one hand in relation to bulgaria and romania and on the other hand in relation to preparing the next steps in south-eastern europe. as regards bulgaria and romania, i would remind you of the council's promise to consult closely with this parliament on whether accession is possible in 2007, or, as i hope, in 2008. we expect the presidency to respect its obligation to consult us on this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. there are many tests to be passed. one test is also how the countries in this region treat their minorities. the attitude towards minorities is always an important aspect for us in parliament. i am very disappointed, mr chancellor, that you, as president of the council, are not able to convince your coalition partner, mr haider, to show a minimum of respect for the slovenian minority in austria and to set up joint bilingual local signs. i also hope that you will do everything in your power, especially during your presidency, to ensure that austria behaves in an exemplary manner and not in a regressive manner, especially in order to win international confidence. in the context of enlargement, we sometimes get the impression that the heads of government - and you are certainly not alone - are making decisions very quickly. but when it comes to communicating to the people why the steps of enlargement are necessary and what the benefits of enlargement are, there is little left to say. the council must work with parliament and the commission - we can only do this together - to find a way of communicating this great historic enlargement project to the citizens, because you are right that there is a lack of confidence, as you have said. we need to work together to figure out what we can do to bridge this trust gap. on the subject of economic problems and unemployment, i can only support you in full. we shall also be measuring you by how well what you have said on combating unemployment is being implemented in this presidency and by your willingness to take appropriate steps. in this context, it is particularly regrettable that, although we have more funds available for research and development, this is - as you know very well - partly at the expense of infrastructure development. the european rail network, which is so important for all of us - and especially for our country - will suffer because we have massively cut back on funds. we cannot accept that and we should try to correct it. mr president-in-office, we social democrats will give an objective assessment of your presidency. we'll be measuring you on the basis of what you've promised today. we wish the austrian presidency every success. europe is too important to us to wish for anything else!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i hope you'll forgive me for comparing you to zeus. but in fact most heads of government treat europe as the greek god-king did: as a lover who is boasted of here, but who is often kept quiet or discredited at home with his wife, so as not to arouse suspicion. (laughter and applause) and citizens react just as children do in a family when there are no clear relationships. they are extremely uncertain and suspicious, they react with denial, as we have clearly seen in the case of the negative referendums in france and the netherlands. you want to give europe a new impetus, mr president-in-office? the only way to do that is to set a good example and finally create a clear situation. the council must make a commitment to its beloved europe at home, must commit itself to it with greater self-confidence, must also provide it with an intelligent financial means of subsistence, must tell its citizens at home that each individual member state has a chance in the global competition for prosperity only if there is a strong, self-confident europe, and that it is europe's task to cultivate globalisation. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i welcome you here and wish you success and fortune wherever you are working for this common europe. after a great, almost desperate speech by the luxembourg president of the council six months ago and a great demagogic speech by the british president of the council, you have today presented a kind of european doctrine of harmony and tried to elicit a sound of europe from the political magic flute. but this sound of europe cannot cover up the truth that europe is in crisis. it cannot drown out the babbling of governments and the noise of the eternal nationalist interest bazaar. it is also unable to ignore the lament of europe, which is being scapegoated by the governments of its own countries for the very europe that they have created. you speak of the people of europe. i listened to that with great respect and attention. but most governments deny it even exists. it would have enormous consequences for the constitutional question to take the people of europe seriously. but as my colleague mr cohn-bendit has already said, the magic flute cannot override its silence either. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is not the fault of the governments that the european parliament has been so unable to act. they are nowhere in the forefront of the fight for european democracy. the silence on the social question, mr chancellor, the doctrine of harmony, yes, the european way of life is not in danger. it's none of your business. it's made up of many things. the people themselves are the ones who are producing the european way of life. but the european social model, the social market economy, is in danger. you haven't said a word about it. we don't need a magic flute to be free. but your cooperation in the cia case, in an unprecedented attack on fundamental rights in the middle of this europe, (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! the austrian presidency wants to ask the right questions to reduce the catastrophic rejection of the eu by broad sections of the european population. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question should not be about the extent of europe's reach and why, for example, islamic anatolia should ever belong to europe, or about the extent of the enlargement to the east and whether it should not be better prepared. finally, it will be impossible to avoid the question of why the union can only function by putting even more pressure on the top net contributors, which now include austria. i hope very much that you will not be so closely involved in these central questions of europe's future as you are today - elegantly but embarrassingly. otherwise, people's scepticism of the eu would have to continue to grow under the austrian presidency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. some of my colleagues have picked up on this. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of europe, but that we should be concerned about the future of europe. i'm thinking of sigmund freud, who has worked on inferiority complexes, frustration, narcissism, among other things. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have a lot of inferiority complexes. you yourself spoke of the european model of life. it is above all a social model of life that we should export. we should not import neoliberal models from elsewhere into europe. i therefore appeal to you, mr president-in-office, to seek musical but not political harmony with condoleezza rice and the bush administration. represent europe with confidence in the world. frustrations -- we know this from freud -- are born of disappointed expectations. the union is all too often supplying it. we are promising, for example, thirty priority transport projects, and then a financial perspective is adopted which makes it impossible to finance these projects from both european and national funds. in austria itself, your vice-chancellor has already declared dead a project which is particularly dear to my heart, namely the rail link from prague to linz. i think that all this has to do with another phenomenon that we often encounter, particularly in the european council, namely narcissism and excessive egocentricity, which are constantly preventing us from getting ahead with this europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the german chancellor, the president of the council, the president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i am actually quite happy about the division of functions in the european union, namely that chancellor schüssel is acting as chancellor and president of the council and president barroso as president of the commission. this is a useful form for the european union and also for our country. the austrian presidency of the council under chancellor schüssel coincides - and this is a coincidence in time - with my departure from the european parliament after 10 years in which i was able to lead the delegation of the austrian people's party. ten years in which the european union has changed dramatically, and we are with it! these dramatic changes are primarily the result of the enlargement of the european union, for which i have worked in many capacities - an enlargement which has strengthened this european union, but also austria. the fact that we have grown from 15 to 25 members should not be a reason for the population to feel insecure. it wasn't too fast. it was the right response at the right time after the end of the cold war, the collapse of the soviet union and the re-emergence of europe. of course, there is another growth process that is needed. what is important here, however - and i welcome the president-in-office's mention of this - is the standards we have to observe when we take in new members of the european union. we must take our standards seriously and not undermine and undermine them in a wink of an eye. the fight against corruption, the rule of law and the establishment of a proper, democratic and transparent administration are essential if europe is to grow. the european economy, the european people and the european union must be institutionally and psychologically absorbable. this is the criterion we must take into account in the forthcoming enlargement steps, including those for romania and bulgaria, and i hope that both countries will be able to meet the conditions in time. the president-in-office has mentioned some elements in his speech which i should like to highlight. firstly, europe needs strong own resources. if you succeed, mr wolfgang, in bringing a new impulse to the european debate so that europe can finally take this debate on own resources to the concrete, that would be a great step forward. i also trust that you will have the negotiating skills to solve the great problem of the future financial perspective by going to the european parliament, which will make it easier for the european parliament and the commission to go to the council on this matter. the second point i would like to make, which i consider to be a positive one, is that europe needs social partnership solutions and, of course, cannot say goodbye to social partnership in this dynamic global growth process. this is an important basic requirement. you've seen dock workers protesting here. social partnership cannot be a brake on economic growth, it must be an engine for economic growth! after all, europe and the european union need energy. and this energy is needed both politically and in the truest sense of the word. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union's policy towards such an important country as ukraine. you can't just go around saying, "i'm sorry, but i'm not going to do this". we need to pay particular attention to the democratic development and economic independence of ukraine. i am convinced that some steps will be taken under this presidency. thirdly, we need to put a brake on the transfer of nuclear weapons. (the president cut the speaker off)
the almost 20 000 bathing waters in the european union may harbour bacteriological hazards that are not known. since the average swimmer swallows about 50 milliliters of water, and children who splash sometimes swallow ten times as much, it is important to ensure that there is no risk of disease. the various pathogens can cause everything from nausea to rashes to life-threatening illnesses. the european directive has therefore been successful in improving bathing water quality in recent years. however, the self-regulating capacity of smaller lakes, such as ours in the alpine region of my home country, austria, has been rapidly exceeded. we must not rely on legislation, prohibitions and investment alone, but must also seek to encourage active participation and environmental awareness among the public.
in writing. it is completely incomprehensible to me how the european commission, only a year after the failure of its first proposal for a directive on market access for port services, could present a new proposal for a directive on 13 october 2004, just before the end of its term of office, which contains serious tightening measures and continues the central rules that led to the failure of the first proposal. in my view, the proposal for a directive departs from the current guiding principle of european competition policy, which is to ensure that competition is effective. according to the commission, the market is not a single market, but a single market, and the market is not a single market. i am relieved by the outcome of this debate and that the widespread protests have had an effect (while i of course condemn in the strongest terms the riots in strasbourg), because the proposal for a directive interferes with competition in port cargo services, although there is no need for competition policy action in terms of market structure, market behaviour and market outcome.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was with the delegation at the elections in afghanistan in september, and we said at that time that because of the large sums of money that the european union is also investing in development cooperation in afghanistan, it will be necessary to have a special parliamentary delegation here. i think it is very important that we have decided on such a parliamentary delegation in our resolution today. i believe that it will be the task of this group of members to also monitor the political objectives of the european union in afghanistan, in particular the development of the human rights situation and women's rights.
in writing. it's only when the last tree is cut down, the last river poisoned, the last fish caught, that you'll realize you can't eat money. this cree wisdom may soon be true. for too long we have thoughtlessly shaken piece by piece the delicate scaffolding of nature. we are only now at the point where we can pay more attention to environmental protection and launch the first major joint rescue operations. but we will have to step up our efforts. because we're slowly but surely turning off our natural heating -- the gulf stream. in addition, the global warming is causing the loss of about 86 million tons of fertile soil every day, while adding about 225,000 people to the population and accelerating the rate of devastation. europe is facing the worst climate change in over 5,000 years. with the melting of the ice in the north and the spread of deserts in the south of europe, together with the melting of huge 'carbon reserves' in the permafrost and tundra, it will become quite uncomfortable in the foreseeable future. the various solutions are drawn up in the drawers of various experts. it is time we looked at them and their implementation more closely and finally came to an agreement.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are presenting today the report on the european reflection phase, which, after many months of discussion and with the overwhelming support of the committee on constitutional affairs, has become a road map for overcoming the constitutional crisis. it is a matter of a few minutes for this great step and this great decision of parliament, but if i had just one minute to speak, i would use it to thank my co-rapporteur, andrew duff, for the extraordinary honour and pleasure of doing this work with him. he taught me that the future, the common future, can be found in a europe, in our europe, from many different directions. thank you very much. a green austrian and a liberal englishman - if that is not a handicap for the beginning, then, i believe, others can also find each other. mr president, the harmonious notes of the political magic flute played by the president of the council this morning have obviously failed to cover up the european crisis. he didn't talk about it. i want to talk about that, and i want to talk about the heart of this crisis. all this new conflict, the divisions, the european crisis, is about a single phrase, uttered by the founding father of the european union, jean monnet: "we unite people, not states". that is the point of the dispute we are having today. is there a europe of chancellors, governments, bureaucracies and elites, or is there the union of citizens to which this constitution has opened the way? the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today, and it is a great help to the people of europe in the future. that's why this fight is happening. we have been welcomed by our colleagues outside the chamber dressed as ostriches. they should not have been dressed up, we have recognised them so well, and we are not blind; we know that the provisional failure of the ratification process is, in the eyes of the nationalists, a historic opportunity for the renaissance of nationalism. the house, in broad agreement with all the groups represented in the committee on constitutional affairs, rejects this report. (applause from the centre) the constitution is not dead because the desire of the people to live together in europe in freedom and equality in the future, in inner and outer peace, is a goal that lives on in the minds and hearts of the people. and on the way to finding an order, to designing a political architecture, a political space in which this is possible, the constitution is a crucial step. we are presenting a report today which seeks to devise a strategy to deal with this crisis. it is a crisis of confidence, it is the crisis of a union which cannot distinguish between the union of citizens and the union of states, in which the expectations of the people are being disappointed, as it were, by means of a programme. the social question is not being answered, democracy is lacking, fundamental rights are not being guaranteed, transparency is inadequate, the power of governments is not being controlled and tamed. but this constitution is a step, and if it is in trouble, we will try to continue along this path. we have designed a european debate; i think we are taking the process back to the citizens, and that means nothing less than turning an elite project into a res publica, a matter for the people themselves. i hope that, if it adopts this report, the house will join us in appealing to all parties, the population, the local authorities, the regions, the trade unions and civil society to take part in this debate and to discuss this future of europe as a res publica. we have not proposed this debate in an unstructured way. we have reached agreement across the political groups on six questions, including many taboo questions: the objective of european integration, the frontiers of europe, the future of the economic and social model, europe's role in the world, the question of the area of security, freedom and justice, and the social question. and even if the constitution does not meet all the wishes - of course it does not - i hope that with this plan we will take a big step towards that goal. i would like to say a few words about the differences with the committee on constitutional affairs. the rapporteurs are willing and have fought to go a step further and to see not only the continuation of the ratification process as the result of this debate, but also the possibility of improving the constitution, of preserving its essence and of adopting in 2007 a revision process, of presenting it more openly in order to make the debate more credible, and of presenting such a revision to the citizens also in a european referendum. i hope that this further step will add to the commission's discretion and the courage of the house. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not i am very grateful to the two rapporteurs for their report. i know that the question raised by mr brok has led to a great deal of discussion, including within the political groups. it says a lot about both positions. perhaps the question is asked too soon. perhaps we need to start with what we may have neglected a little bit, which is the content dimension. how can we convince the citizens that we need a constitution in europe as it has been drafted? in my opinion, which i was able to draw up for the committee on industry, research and energy, i gave some examples. perhaps i can give an example of something which did not have much weight at the time but has gained weight in this parliament in recent days: the energy question! it was surprising and astonishing that many members who perhaps until recently were skeptical of european energy policy have now very massively expressed their support for a common energy policy. i very much welcome what mr saryusz-wolski has said. the german chancellor, as president of the council, who has always stressed subsidiarity, has today clearly spoken in favour of a common energy policy. this is just one example to show how important it is that the powers we have enshrined at european level - especially in the constitution - are really used to their full extent. i think that's the way we have to go. i should now like to mention, for example, the question of space policy, which we have also discussed here, and where the question is not of sending europeans into space but of controlling the environment or of providing early warning of tsunamis. many other things are realistic, feasible and explainable to the citizen if we do not focus on the institutional issues but on the substantive ones. mr president of the council! we in this parliament are naturally waiting for that road map or that outline of how things should proceed. i urge you to point out in all the matters you have to deal with in the coming weeks and months of the council presidency how much better we could do if we had a european constitution. that is a very important aspect.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission is not i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs - and i do mean this from the bottom of my heart - not only on the report now before us but also on their continued commitment to the constitutional issue, even in times of economic downturn. i hope those times are over now. i was allowed to write the opinion of the legal affairs committee. the wording of the opinion is very much in line with the draft report of the committee responsible which is now before us. we were concerned, particularly from the point of view of the legal affairs committee, not to abandon this draft constitution too soon. in the areas which are very important to us, such as the position and powers of the european court of justice, the reorganisation of the legislative procedure and the comitology procedure, judicial cooperation, we simply cannot see that we can really achieve improvements by a complete new start - quite the contrary! if today i have unfortunately had to hear criticism of the competence of the european court of justice from the austrian presidency of the council, and there is now criticism not only from the austrian presidency, then i think that the solutions found here in the draft constitution are very good. we are also, of course, legally guarding against a frivolous division of the draft constitution. in part i we have a lot of principles. we all know that these principles were politically acceptable only with the exceptions contained in part iii. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to conclude by expressing my deep disappointment at the letter from these three presidents of national parliaments. when i recall - and i see many members of the previous convention in this chamber - the commitment with which the national deputies worked on the draft constitution, the important proposals they made, i simply cannot regard this letter from the three presidents as the final answer to this question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not understand the democratic approach of some critics of the eu who normally want to put themselves behind their national flags and turn other european citizens into agents of their own interests. it has been said many times now that 70% of austrians do not want this constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the national council and the federal council ratified the constitution by a large majority. but it is clear that for some people, polling figures are more important than constitutional procedures. i also do not understand the approach of some others who want to discuss alternatives now before the current ratification process is completed in any case. the call for new alternatives now negates the democratic decisions in most member states of the european union. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have had long discussions in the convention on the future of europe on all these alternatives, on a more democratic europe, a more social union, etc. we've come to the same conclusions over and over again. each such improvement, however desirable, will ultimately lead to more and a stronger europe, and thus to the further loss of power of the nation states, which is not currently desired by most member states and their citizens. we are therefore doing what the majority of the committee on constitutional affairs has proposed. let us try to inform the european citizens about what is actually in the 2004 constitutional treaty, what is not in it, and let us try to reach a consensus in a second attempt for the best constitutional work currently on the market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has also concluded that the scheme is not compatible with the internal market and that it is not compatible with the internal market in the sense of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. does the council consider that the eu emissions trading directive is meeting its original objectives and do you think that a co2 levy could constitute an own resource of the european union?
madam president, mr secretary of state, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank you for the very detailed explanations you have given on this subject. we know that this climate agreement also has costs for industry. what opportunities do you see, however, to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and to keep it successful on international markets? is there a way? if so, what are they?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank you for this detailed reply to the question of coordination in the field of counter-terrorism and human rights. i have one more question: what is the position of the presidency of the council of europe on the council of europe's investigation into the alleged illegal cia flights and secret prisons?
the council has already taken a decision on this. i would like to return to a more general subject, since it has become clear in the debate today that the question of strengthening human rights in the union as a whole is one of the priorities of the austrian presidency. the eu intends to develop the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, currently based in vienna, into a human rights agency. do you see any possibilities for coordination and also helpful services in the context of the question raised here?
madam president, mr secretary of state! the question i put also touched on the neighbourhood policy. i would just like to ask you what the austrian presidency's programme is on strengthening the neighbourhood policy, particularly with regard to ukraine. i would like to know whether the eu has allocated sufficient funds to ensure that the european union plays a proper role in kosovo during the status process and afterwards.
madam president, mr winkler, the secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the christians in turkey continue to face many difficulties. what does the presidency intend to do to improve their situation?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what is your view of the proposal to hold a g24 conference in support of the peace process in the first half of 2006?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe is in the immediate vicinity and, of course, has a much greater overview of the political situation. do you think it would be possible to start a debate on the european constitutional treaty there too, because it could of course also contribute to future stability in such countries?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank mrs vlasto, who has worked very hard on this report and has also worked out the main points very well. this morning we had the presence of chancellor schüssel of the austrian presidency, who himself was once the director of a small and mediumsized enterprise association and who therefore knows the problem so well and knows how important it is to do more in this area. i would also like to thank commissioner verheugen very warmly for this, because the charter report has of course considerably increased the focus on small and mediumsized enterprises. the efforts to assist small and mediumsized enterprises have thus been given greater emphasis. i think it is also good to see this preliminary study, the detailed, in-depth study to be carried out in all the member states, as a preliminary study of the lisbon process, so that the lisbon process will also be relevant, so that we know what we have to do in the area of small and mediumsized enterprises, so that the ngos, but ultimately also the council and the commission, can see where the strengths and weaknesses are. i think it is extremely important that the three pillars we have created here, 'macro', 'micro' and employment, clearly show that small and mediumsized enterprises also pay 80% of taxes in the end. this is something that must be put at the centre of a social europe. we must look at the ultimate source of taxes, and in future we must relieve the burden on firms, especially workers, so that higher profits and wages can be achieved, while on the other hand excise duties should contribute accordingly to the tax revenue, because here in particular imports from low-wage countries represent a great opportunity for us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already done so. the role of the european union as a promoter of democracy, as a facilitator of economic development and as an honest broker between the parties to the conflict in the middle east is, in my view, absolutely welcome. in this context, it is also worth noting that many millions of euros of eu funds - including the 1.5 million euros you mentioned, commissioner - are going to the middle east for the elections in palestine. but then you have to make sure that the results of such democratic elections are accepted by all sides, even if political forces - like hamas - that you may not like so much are among the winners. the eu, as an honest broker in the palestinian conflict, will have to be much more decisive in its support for the two-state solution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind. only a real improvement in the living conditions of the palestinians will bring a break with political radicalism and terrorism. but in order to play this valuable role as a mediator in this geopolitical area of great difficulty, the eu must not become a front-line state and a party to the conflict. that is why i would like to take this opportunity to warn once again against turkey's full membership of the eu. the european union would then be a frontline state vis-à-vis iran, iraq, syria and, indirectly, also vis-à-vis palestine.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the rapporteur does not want to give the impression that he shares this interpretation. this fight to change content through translation should not succeed. the rapporteurs do not agree with this.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not it has been said many times today that this resolution is not directed against anyone, but that the european parliament supports the events. it supports the fact that cooperation between peru and chile led to fujimori's arrest. parliament also supported the extradition of mr fujimori to peru, which had requested it, and called on the peruvian authorities to pursue a policy of comprehensive witness protection. both are important prerequisites for fujimori to be held accountable for his human rights violations and corruption in his own country. the fight against impunity is not only one of the main pillars of the european union's foreign policy, but also a fundamental pillar on which all states of law are built. the fact that many wounds remain in some latin american countries today because of too much impunity is another reason to support and promote this cause.
a writer. the commission is not on 30 december 2005, egyptian security forces cleared a camp that had been set up by over 2 500 sudanese migrants, refugees and asylum seekers outside the unhcr headquarters in cairo since september 2005. the security forces were very brutal. the result of this operation is very, very sad: 30 dead and more than 60 wounded. the egyptian interior ministry tried to blame the alleged panic on the escape of those present. journalists present report that there was no such thing. in our resolution today, parliament joins a number of leading figures at the united nations who have already condemned these incidents. un secretary-general kofi annan criticized the brutality of the security forces, saying there was no justification for such violence and loss of life. it is good that the egyptian authorities have now decided to investigate these incidents. we call on the egyptian government to allow un human rights experts and independent egyptian human rights organisations to participate in these investigations. respect for human rights is a fundamental value of the association agreement with the european union. we therefore call on the council and the commission to discuss these incidents at the next meeting of the eu-egypt association council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of my group i would like to propose an amendment to recital f, namely 650, instead of 462 sudanese nationals. that's the number of people who are threatened with deportation. we would also like to make the same proposal for paragraph 5, the same amendment. i checked the french, spanish and german versions. they already contain the change. i would ask you to instruct the services to check this in all language versions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can almost pick up where mr peterle left off. because, in fact, if, as you said, mr high representative, many in europe are saying 'act!' then it is really time for us to act. just two examples: without gloating, we must admit that the great american initiative for the wider middle east has actually collapsed in itself. the intervention in iraq has not made things any better. the lack of and hesitation in supporting the middle east peace policy and initiative contributed to hamas's electoral victory. i would like to mention only in passing that fatah itself bears a great deal of the blame. as regards iran, we all know that a stronger us security commitment across the region would be important in a positive sense to convince iran to refrain from developing its own nuclear weapons. the european union must therefore now - not against the united states, which would be completely absurd, but with the united states - clearly define what a comprehensive foreign policy can look like in the middle east in particular, from a forceful peace policy to support for civil society in individual countries. the second example is energy policy. it has already been said that we, as a major consumer in the world market, must be more united, mobilise and join forces with other consumers. we see exactly what happens if we do not act together with them, as in the case of iran. if russia is going to nationalise and politicise energy policy, then we must at least europeanise parts of our energy policy. commissioner, we are looking forward to the report. i have already raised this issue with you at your hearing. it is very important that we get this report now and that we say clearly: we need a national energy policy. but it must be supplemented and extended by a strong european energy policy, which is also an essential instrument of foreign policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not often that i am much more modest than my predecessors when it comes to financial matters in this house. i dare not dream of such national responsibilities, but i have not forgotten, mr secretary of state, what your chancellor - and mine too - said in your place in this house on the question of subsidies using subsidies. the german chancellor, in his capacity as president of the council, said: 'all this should be made public so that we know who is actually benefiting from it.' i repeat once again: all this should be published! do it now! in some member states, which are even more critical of many things, such as the united kingdom, this is a matter of course. in austria, lead by example! what happens to all that 80%? who gets what, when, and how much? the second thing that might be easier for you to do is to join your own political group, namely mrs gräßle! it introduces reforms into the new financial regulation which can really be worked with and which will then make it very easy for you to fend off unjustified criticism. but you have to be transparent.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the postal services are not affected by the introduction of the euro. the completion of the internal market cannot be an end in itself, but should bring something positive for the citizens of europe, as all declarations of intent say. however, it is already clear that the effects of the reduction in services in many countries are enormous in the remote regions, in areas with low population density. even in areas where access is difficult, you cannot cut off people from services. the opening up of the market, as the rapporteur has also stated in the committee, would then guarantee the services of the proverbial 'mother on the mountain', has now been refuted by classic examples. this is why, in a study such as the one we have just carried out, we should not ask questions in such a way that we can practically anticipate the desired result, as is done in point 13, for example. the desire of the questioner to obtain a definite answer is so evident that a study is almost superfluous. when you're doing a study, you have to face the full reality!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the members of our team of reporters and shadow reporters. it was an excellent collaboration, driven by a common cause. this common concern was also the original intention of the directive: accidents in heavy traffic, the deterioration of road safety caused by the secondary sleep of overtired drivers and the scandalous social dumping in the transport sector, which also represents an unfair competition situation between european countries, but also with third countries to the detriment of all those who have behaved fairly and sensibly towards their employees, must finally come to an end in europe. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states. this is now the duty of the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's shipping industry is not compromised by the fact that the community is not able to provide the necessary information to the shipping industry. the fact that this control now needs to be increased - and it is essential - was ultimately the reason for me to agree to the directive. i believe that we need these regulations to achieve certain improvements, even if we do not yet have the necessary coherence with the working time directive. there are other criticisms, such as that the regulations are sometimes so complicated that an uninitiated person cannot understand them, or that the periods for adjusting the control are too long. but the council was not convinced until the end - which was also a rather bitter experience for me - that road safety and measures against social dumping are indispensable. but we have made a step. but we must now ensure that the member states finally implement the rules and finally do something in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. digital technology is being used in more and more areas. so let us hope that the digital tachograph really does deliver on its promise. the new system is, in my view, to be welcomed in general terms. finally, it should, in conjunction with information and communication systems, provide a simple way of managing the fleet in a comprehensive manner and be indispensable for enforcing driving and resting times for professional drivers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. in this context, however, we should be clear that the changeover will only be effective if the announced increase in the number of checks, including checks on the roadworthiness of vehicles, is actually carried out. this is because roadworthiness is often not really present in vehicles from eastern europe, for example. the various ways in which analogue control equipment can be manipulated seem to be really being improved by digital technology. on the other hand, i believe that new ways of manipulating this will soon be found. however, newly registered lorries may be retired after may 2006 if they do not have a working tachograph; however, since there is no requirement to retrofit older vehicles, savvy entrepreneurs will probably be able to take advantage of this. the extent to which vehicles registered in other countries are used or indirectly favoured by entrepreneurs established in other countries is also questionable. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the main objectives of these two pieces of legislation, which we are about to adopt, have been mentioned several times today: greater safety on europe's main arteries, compliance with the rules on working time and rest periods, and thus better protection for drivers and their social rights, and, in general, fairer competition. we shall, in essence, translate these objectives into concrete community law in the two texts. we will therefore have to focus our attention in the next few years on compliance with and, above all, on monitoring compliance with these new standards. the member states and their administrations are the main actors involved. the commission will do well to bring back to the path of virtue the lazy sinners in some member states, which will certainly be there. in this context, we should all bear in mind another objective of the regulation in the directive which has not been really addressed today, but which is also important: the new rules should also be simplified. i am not sure that we have made the big move at this point. i am hearing the great lament about the bureaucratic moloch europe again and i know that we may have to speak very little or not at all about the benefits that legislation will bring us. we must therefore make sure that the companies and drivers in the transport sector do not see the rules and the control of their compliance as bureaucratic harassment, but that we all talk about the european added value that we get from the increased level of safety on europe's roads in a positive way and do not always attack the bad europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is also in writing and, in agreement with the petitioner, i would add only the two words in order (in order to lay down the conditions for a representative democracy) for clarity.
in writing. the aim of the regulation on the harmonization of social legislation in road transport was to introduce uniform rules on working conditions and road safety, which had long been necessary. it remains to be seen whether the social interests of the drivers concerned will actually improve as a result of the present agreement. the commission has also proposed that the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens should be amended to include the following: i deeply regret that a ban on distance and volume-based pay will not be part of this regulation adopted today. i have worked hard to achieve far-reaching improvements in the social conditions of motorists. the fixed wage represents a real protection of the economic base of every worker and i believe that road transport personnel have the same right to it. the harmonization of social standards in european road transport is a sensible decision in general, but in view of the improvements i had originally hoped for for the drivers themselves, the result is sobering. i can therefore only reject these two dossiers.
in writing. the harmonization of social standards in european road transport is generally very welcome. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of motorists. that is not the case here, and that is why i voted against these dossiers. the aim of the regulation on the harmonization of social legislation in road transport is to introduce uniform rules on working conditions and road safety, which have long been necessary. while uniform driving and rest times in road transport were finally achieved, important points such as the full incorporation of the working time directive were not included in the final document. unfortunately, the ban on distance and volume-based pay will not be part of the regulation adopted today. the fixed wage, however, is an important protection of the economic base of every worker and is of course also the right of road transport personnel.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have two crises at the moment which require our full attention and a lot of tact, and they will not be resolved by the kind of fine words we are hearing from the austrian presidency of the council. firstly, we must deal with the electoral victory of hamas, which must be accepted in palestine as an expression of democratic will. but on the other hand, it is a movement which has not yet renounced violence. the palestinian people need european help - including financial aid - more than ever. and of course, if hamas forms a government, it will be required to renounce violence. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of nuclear safety. since iran seems to be willing to talk to russia about uranium enrichment, we should first go down that road. at the same time, however, it is important to oppose us-indian nuclear cooperation, which seems to confirm tehran's negative assessment of the us's self-styled 'world policeman' hypocrisy.
in writing. the problems arising from the massive influx of other cultures - including women's rights - have been ignored for decades under the false slogan of tolerance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in this context, it is a shame that in an eu where the curling of cucumbers and bananas is regulated, we are not even able to develop uniform guidelines on how to punish violence against women. it is equally deplorable when state authorities ignore or even support cases of polygamy, thereby contributing to the violation of human rights. in view of these facts, it is commendable if the presidency of the council intends to take a more active role in defending women's rights, but a little education among doctors, teachers or the police will not do it. the main problem is the male role model, which in our western understanding is not necessarily ideal with a competitive style and in muslim ideology culminates in a hatred of women - here we have to start.
in writing. in 1997, the process of liberalising the european postal market began, with the aim of creating an open market for all operators in the 25 member states. under pressure from the liberalization process of the european postal market, national postal companies have begun to change their structures and reposition themselves. despite all the progress, however, the implementation of the directive at national level needs to be closely monitored. for example, it is not acceptable that the austrian postal law provides for disproportionately high penalties for non-retrofitting of specialised mail-order facilities. this cannot be attributed to the 2002 eu postal directive, which does not provide for such sanctions at national level. such implementation practices further fuel citizens' scepticism of the eu, who again blame brussels alone for this state of affairs. i call on the european commission to monitor the implementation of the eu postal directive, in particular with a view to ensuring that planned national penalties are not disproportionate and do not jeopardise the functioning of the postal market. this should also be a priority in the forthcoming prospective study. i therefore welcome parliament's own-initiative report, since my request has been incorporated in the report.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. we must take that into account. the question is whether we can return to mr cohn-bendit's proposal that we could adopt the resolution at the next partsession, given the current situation and mr solana's visit to these countries. i think that would be a reasonable compromise that we could agree on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are several motions for resolutions tabled by a liberal member of parliament. the rules of procedure have a pro and a con. this motion is intended to correct a decision of the conference of presidents, and we are not debating this in the plenary, but are repeating the conference of presidents. the only people who come forward are the chairmen of the political groups who oppose the amendment of their resolution. the reference to solana seems to indicate that parliament is willing to relinquish its influence. if we wait until he returns, parliament will have little influence on his policies. i would suggest that we stick to the rules of procedure and call for speakers for and against, and not make the plenary a repetition of the conference of presidents.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not only europe that is discussing this, not only all the newspapers, not only the citizens themselves who are discussing it every day - this is a conflict that goes deep and is discussed all over the world. it cannot be true that a single institution does not discuss this, does not adopt a resolution, that the elected representative of the citizens, the european parliament, is silent in one of europe's biggest conflicts. this can't be happening! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the chicken-rearing industry is one of the most intensive types of farming, with major problems for the welfare and health of the animals. we are discussing today for the first time minimum protection measures for broilers. so far, there have been only the general provisions of the directive on the protection of farm animals. the commission's initiative is therefore to be welcomed, but so is the report by our rapporteur, and you have had a very difficult exercise here, if you follow the debate and see how many different directions the criticisms and the speeches are going in. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is a very important one. the measures proposed in the directive are not sufficient in some areas, and the most frequently discussed today is the question of how many kilograms of live weight per square metre of usable area are allowed. the european commission refers to the 2000 report of the scientific committee on animal health and welfare as a basis. it is not, however, based on it, because it is clear from this report that a crew density of 25 kg should not be exceeded in order to avoid major problems for the welfare of the animals. article 3 of the commission proposal requires a live weight of 30 kg. i support amendment no 53 by jørgensen, bowis and sacconi, which requires a crew density of 25 kg and if the owner meets certain conditions, this crew density can be increased to a maximum of 30 kg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we can't stop globalization, we know that. but there is no doubt that the right conditions must be created to keep the number of victims of globalisation in eu countries as low as possible. unfortunately, the commission has so far been unable to come up with anything better than a globalisation fund, another transfer of money from the old to the new member states, which should have been prepared for accession by means of billions in aid and could now afford a flat tax in addition to the advantage of their location and lower labour costs. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the european union has a long history of developing its own policies and policies, and the european union has a long history of developing its own policies. it is no wonder that fear of cheap competition is widespread. we must therefore stick to the transitional periods for the labour market, at all costs, in order to alleviate these grievances at least a little. despite export surpluses and successful large-scale entrepreneurs, the number of jobs subject to social security is stagnating, which is shaking up our social system. the commission has for many years emphasized the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises as job machines. yet, one law after another is enacted that makes life difficult for them. both subsidies and public contracts are designed for large companies that move every few years to the place where the highest subsidies are available. this must change immediately, otherwise, in my view, the european small and mediumsized enterprises will be ruined.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make six comments on this subject. first, we all agree that globalization is happening. but unlike my predecessor, i think we need to see it as an opportunity if we are to take the right action. secondly, we must look at how this is done within the wto and we must strengthen the un as the world ethics organization alongside the world trade organization. the considerations for a 'global marshall plan' in development cooperation play a key role here. my third point is that we have made our greatest contribution with the euro. the economic and monetary union is a response to globalisation, and the stability and growth pact must therefore be respected if we are to develop the scope for responding to it. fourthly, we are concerned about demographic change. our social security and pension systems need to be put in order. if we do not do this in a sustainable way, we are definitely losing out to globalisation. jean-claude juncker said at the european people's party conference a few days ago: 'the young people of the globalisers are in asia, the elderly of the globalisers are in the west because of demographic trends.' we are concerned about the consequences of this. my fifth point is that we must make the internal market a home market and implement the four freedoms for employers and employees. this includes the services directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what is reason is often a more rhetorical question. there is a compromise here. i'm sure that's a good thing. unfortunately, this is only a partial solution to the problem. it is certainly welcome that a regulation should at least cover artificial optical radiation. the fact that the question of natural radiation has been left out of the debate is probably one of the errors of reasoning in this parliament. when it comes to protecting the eyes and skin, both artificial optical and natural radiation are a problem. there is a causal link here and there. in this context, legal certainty is required both in the case of artificial optical radiation and in the case of natural radiation. the development of environmental policy will teach us that the courts and the european court of justice will increasingly be concerned with this problem. then we'll have to act again. the genesis of worker protection has always been based on information and prevention. it's more humane and cheaper. thinking in this direction is a long process. first came the suffering for the workers, then the realization that there is a duty of care for employers and that suffering and illness can and must be alleviated through healing. it was only then that the value of education and prevention of occupational diseases and accidents was recognized. now i'm back to the question of reason. a question for you, my friend thomas mann, where are you?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for many border residents, not much has changed since the eastward enlargement, because in many border regions people were already far ahead of politics, and small border traffic had long been a daily occurrence. it is therefore all the more important that we agree on common rules for small cross-border movements, but allow member states, as envisaged, to conclude bilateral agreements for their implementation. the abolition of internal borders naturally makes the control of the schengen external border all the more important. the exchange of information across borders, joint coordination and controls have even helped to reduce crime in border regions. of course we must grant the border residents relief, but on the other hand we must ensure that they are not exploited unfairly by means of strict sanctions. it must also be ensured that these persons do not constitute a danger to public security and order. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank mrs rothe for her commitment to renewable energy, and also mr turmes, who has praised my home state very much for its exemplary work on renewable energy, also in a macroeconomic context, because we attach great importance to the fact that cheap, safe and clean energy is produced very easily. these three things must always be seen in context. the saying 'think globally and act locally' also applies. we must keep the global situation in mind and, at the same time, focus on the feasibility of the measures. renewable energy installations and thus also those supporting the kyoto target should in future have priority in the regulatory procedure for building and land permits. this proposal that a decision must be taken two months after the application has been submitted is an absolute priority for me because time is running out, and here we should also provide for a reversal of the burden of proof which applies to the authorities when they reject a project. finally, it is also about the return on investment of projects. we have a wide range of offerings here. i believe that this sector of energy services is a great opportunity for the future, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. some of my predecessors have already mentioned that in the energy sector, particularly in the crossborder area - and we will be adopting the services directive by consensus this week - there are completely new challenges for each member state and that we need simplified procedures. the most important thing is to remove the bureaucratic obstacles. the final point is to use the local resources to promote the small circles. that is our objective, which we are trying to achieve together with the commission. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the union has indeed made a great effort to promote respect for human rights and democracy. it also considers these values to be a prerequisite for membership of the european union. but it has clearly failed in this respect in the case of turkey. not only is it miles away from finally admitting the armenian genocide, but any criticism by journalists is threatened with punishment. since the start of the negotiations, there has also been a marked decline in freedom of expression and of the press. it is also in this context that in 2004 only 11% of turkish asylum applications were granted and that turkey was the council of europe member most frequently convicted by the european court of human rights in 2005. so respect for human rights cannot be a very good thing. the recent religiously-politically motivated murder of a catholic priest in turkey also shows that turkey is unable or unwilling to protect its minorities. the 500 million in eu pre-accession aid this year will not make turkey a model pupil in human rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the services directive has been a good omen for some time. the council is also represented today, united by the responsible minister for economic affairs and labour, and comes from a country where the social partnership is functioning and the social market economy is being lived. the social partnership agreement, the social market economy and the compatibility of economic growth and competitiveness with social security are also the principles which have led the members of the european parliament in recent weeks to agree and rewrite the bolkestein directive. but in the past weeks and months, a great deal of false talk and false writing has been made about the services directive. it was deliberately played on fears and prejudices. and to this day, there are those who would rather demonstrate than inform, who would rather mobilize than negotiate, who would rather polarize than seek good political solutions. we have taken a different path in parliament. but we are not reading, we are misinformed. i have to say to mrs wagenknecht that this directive is not a liberalisation or privatisation directive. and to our colleagues from the greens/efa group i must say: the first sentence of article 16 states: 'member states shall ensure freedom to provide and to provide services'. this directive creates a system of red tape and legal certainty. this directive creates economic growth and employment while maintaining social security. this directive is based on the fundamental principle of freedom to provide services and regulates the use of this freedom. we have rewritten the commission proposal with the single market decision and, in the negotiations between the political groups, we have created a business card of the european model of social market economy. we don't play one against the other. we have also listened to the people and brought their fears and concerns into parliamentary work. europe needs this directive on services. it will bring more growth and jobs to europe, and it is good for workers, good for business and good for europe. there is no reason to vote against this directive on services as we are going to present it. and today there is no longer any reason to demonstrate against this service directive, as we are going to adopt it. the demonstrators have also recognised this, because 35,000 people came to strasbourg, but less than 1,000 went to the parliament. they know we're working for them, too. (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i'd like to thank you very much for arranging this wonderful thing for three austrians to talk just before the break. it's a tribute to the presidency. that's how i see it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, commissioner mccreevy, the president of the commission and minister bartenstein are right to think that the vote on thursday is a very important vote, a vote both on the development of the services and the internal market in general and on the question of enlargement. this meeting has, of course, raised many fears that there is now going to be even more competition or social under-supply. we have in fact criticised the existing form of the directive for doing so. but i believe , and that should convince anyone , we have identified the internal market as one of the instruments of the european union and we must gradually complete it. and we've committed to expansion. this means that we will also give the neighbours who have joined us the opportunity to participate in this single market without discrimination. the point is that we are doing this in a social sense with this directive. i come from a country which is at the crossroads of the enlargement countries. much of what may not have been formally done has in fact already been done. i know that there are problems, and when i use the word 'social dumping', i know that colleagues in my own group also say that this is discriminatory. but it's not about the workers. it concerns a small number of entrepreneurs who use cheap labour to engage in social dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the number of people who are eligible for the single market is not too high. i believe that progress has been made in this respect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. article 16 is particularly important, as it is worded, and it clearly states what can and cannot be done. i agree with the commission that things should be done away with that are discriminatory, that rules should be done away with that are not proportionate or not necessary to achieve the objectives. on the other hand, it is important to make it clear that this is not a contribution to social dumping or to the neglect of progress, because no one would understand if we used enlargement or the internal market to prevent or to reverse progress. in this sense, it is right and important that we should be able to implement the compromise we have reached tomorrow. and in that sense, the demonstrations have helped to raise awareness. they were not against a directive, but for a better one. if the presidency and the commission help to create a better directive, then we can be really satisfied. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the interests of the stability of the european union, austria's involvement in south-eastern europe is very welcome. we now know that a referendum on the independence of the territory of montenegro may be held in april. how can or will the european union's strategy change in the face of this new state of montenegro? what forms of support should there be from the union for the building of a stable state structure?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! the criticism of the austrian chancellor was also based on a factual background, namely the fact that, similarly to the situation between france and belgium, there are numerical and financial problems between austria and the federal republic of germany as regards access to higher education. the differences in size make it difficult for the smaller member states concerned to provide financially and organisationally for all that would be required for full access to higher education. is there an austrian approach to the specific problem of access to higher education? and if so, what are they?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon strategy is the priority objective of the council and the commission, of parliament and, ultimately, of the european citizens until 2010. what role do you think education policy and the issue of access to higher education play in the lisbon strategy?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the russian side has repeatedly accused the baltic states of not fulfilling their obligations, especially with regard to the russian minorities in these states. there have been difficulties, particularly in latvia, with regard to the russian minority in matters of naturalisation and the full restoration of citizenship rights. what does the council intend to do about these member states? or how do you see this problem?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! the question, of course, is still open: has the austrian presidency already received a substantive mandate from the council to take up these discussions? if not, at what level and with what objectives can the discussions at the level of the permanent representatives committee ii take place during this period up to a mandate?
mr president, mr secretary of state, i would like to thank you for your reply. we all know the great efforts which the austrian presidency is making to bring the new financial perspective to a conclusion. the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the year 2000 and the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the year 2000.
mr president, mr bartenstein, the minister of state, is very pleased. energy dependence is the number one issue. the security of energy supply will be a very important concern for us in the future. will the council of energy ministers consider the kyoto protocol and the period after 2012 and the impact of joint implementation in this area? will there be a focus on investment in europe and how can the global target of co2 reduction be achieved in the most efficient way?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, on one of your first days in office as president of the council you had to solve the difficult problem of ukraine and russia. the problem in the initial phase was not that the gas was turned off, but that russia was simply asked to pay much more for russian natural gas. does the austrian presidency now intend to address this vulnerability, not only of ukraine but of course of the european economy, in terms of energy prices? we all know that a massive increase in our economy can cause a high inflation rate, or a massive slowdown in economic growth, or a depression. what are the plans for the energy price sensitivity sector of the european economy?
mr. bartenstein, i can assure you, you don't need to learn anything more, because you're already better off than many of your predecessors. i would like to add to what you have just said that the point is that in the case of occupational retirement provision we are of course also struggling with the different competence situations and the different tax systems. the member states have the greatest obstacles to mobility because of the differences in competence. do you think that we need european minimum standards in this area, common calculation bases for european products and a wider european debate on pensions while respecting national competences?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i share your view that the possibility of supplementary occupational pensions undoubtedly increases mobility. every measure to increase mobility is also a measure to increase job security. i am sure that you will have other measures in the framework of your presidency to increase mobility and thus job security. what measures to promote mobility will you propose to other member states during the presidency?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! we all know that mobility is already relatively high, particularly among academics and young people with an academic background. what is the presidency planning to do now, particularly with regard to apprentices and those who have a lower level of education? what can we do to increase the mobility rate here?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today we are witnessing a ghostly debate. if you listened to the representatives of the major parties, you might think that a solution had actually been reached. but what does it look like? the mountain has turned and given birth to a bureaucratic blizzard. look at you, you who call yourselves social democrats. how will you be able to implement what you think you have negotiated into it now? and on the other side, the same misery. those who really believe they can reach an opening have also failed. what do you do in a situation like this in real life, where it's not about waste and self-indulgence? you go back to the start. you start over. it is tragic for europe that you cannot make this happen. it's a tragedy that you don't listen to your colleague rühle. the whole problematic situation that we are facing now, with the lawsuits that are coming our way, will fall back on those who actually want to defend the european idea.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the international debate on a significant increase in development finance by leading industrialized countries has intensified and this is the consolation scenario because we are very likely not to achieve the development goals that the international community set for itself at the beginning of this millennium. there is international consensus that a significant increase in public development finance is needed to achieve the millennium development goals and thus to halve poverty in developing countries. the oecd development centre's 2004 report highlights the importance of the speed with which the additional funds are made available. so time and the increasing poverty in many of the developing countries are pressing. the european parliament must continue to press for the 0.7% threshold for development cooperation to be reached as soon as possible by all member states and for those member states - including my own - which do not yet have a plan for how to implement this by 2015 to draw up a plan as soon as possible. it is also important to emphasise that these innovative financing methods are always about additional resources. we must not find any form of financing to finance commitments we have already made. it has already been pointed out that one way of doubling the necessary development finance is through the international financial facility. i am sorry, however, that the present compromise does not take account of many other ways of providing sufficient funds in the future. maybe we can work on that tomorrow.
mr secretary of state! there was something touching about the way you stumbled over the manuscript i presented to you on iran and its nuclear programme. this shows how far away an austrian government official is from these issues in the first decade of the third millennium. that's good! we've learned from history, and you talked a lot about responsibility in the first post. if you combine the two, it would be quite natural to take the initiative and say that the perspective on this conflict must go beyond what the previous speakers have said. you can't start from the back, you have to start with the basics, and that's no nukes. it is not clear why some, the good ones - who defines that? - are allowed to have the weapons and others are not. if you start from the austrian perspective, you might be able to do a lot more good in the long run than just being superficially diplomatically nice in the short term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i also understand that a country wants to use advances in science and technology for the benefit of its citizens. that option must be open to him. but in a field as complex as nuclear research, the international community must act together and there can be no room for unilateral action. the crucial thing is to build mutual trust, both on the part of america and europe and on the part of iran. but how is that supposed to work when both sides are talking about military options? it is a fact that the political situation in the region does not have the stability we would wish for the people who live there. the european union is therefore calling on all countries in the region to engage in a process of dialogue. regional stability and security cannot be achieved from the outside, and power games must not lead to the closing of doors and the loss of knowledge of what is happening behind those doors. let us not allow fundamentalism and fanaticism to have a chance.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not thank you for the opportunity to postpone my contribution. i would like to apologise to the presidency and to the commissioner, i have been in the conference of presidents with the austrian president until now. in fact, it is very important that in the precarious situation we find ourselves in in south-eastern europe - with the negotiations in croatia now under way, with macedonia as a candidate but without negotiations yet, and with the open problem of kosovo - we do not look the other way and forget the problems that still exist in bosnia and herzegovina. we can only solve these problems together. the european union is committed to the peace process in bosnia and herzegovina and to the peace process in the region. it has been said many times that the existing constitutional framework, or let us say the institutional framework, is not adequate. not only not fit for the path to the european union, but not fit for the solution of the current problems in the country itself. because if you spend about 50% of the budget on maintaining institutions, that can't really drive meaningful political and economic development. but of course, changing the institutional framework alone will not do any good. we must also insist in particular that cooperation with the international criminal court finally leads to the goal of bringing to justice those responsible for war crimes or suspected of committing them. it is also one of the conditions for people to be able to think about other important, current problems. and a current problem, of course, is the overall economic development in this country, which also leads to many young, educated people leaving this country because there are not enough jobs and investment, and therefore the future elite, the future leadership of this country, regardless of ethnicity, does not stay in the country. that is why it is absolutely essential that we, through this cooperation of all the people of bosnia and herzegovina, regardless of their ethnicity, and the international community, arrive at a new constitution, at a reform of the institutions, where the ethnic criterion is not the primary criterion, but the human and professional quality of those involved, who are to be elected to bear political responsibility.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask the commissioner, with regard to the road costs directive, what the commission intends to do to further promote the principle of internalising external costs. we have now adopted the road-cost directive, but what does the commission intend to do, particularly in the field of studies and scientific research, to clarify the link between pollution and heavy goods transport and then finally to put forward a new proposal for a better, more environmentally friendly eurovignette directive on the basis of this?
i have to say, madam president, i would point out that the commission has not answered my first question in terms of content. i would like to ask you again about this. it is understandable that the commission cannot tell us today how it intends to allocate a budget which has not yet been adopted. but i think the commission should consider how to finance the transeuropean networks. i would like to make a point of this. we all know that the various modes of transport are quite willing to pay for the charges. the new road costs directive has introduced a very narrow ceiling on this charging. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask the commissioner how he envisages reducing bureaucracy in practice, because smes are constantly complaining that the bureaucracy is excessive compared to national research funding programmes. and secondly, how does he ensure the protection of trade secrets?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in regional policy it is important to always put examples in the foreground. so my question is: we have a lot of best practice methods, we have the innovation scoreboard. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he would not be able to work with mr hübner, mr potočnik and mr wallström to find ways of bringing these best practices closer to the european citizen, so as to create incentives to strengthen this cooperation in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. he suggests that some 875 billion euros would be conceivable. do you think there is still a chance of increasing the seventh framework programme?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur very much for this balanced report, because it deals in a very balanced way with the three pillars of sustainability: economy, ecology and also the socio-cultural aspect. this report reflects the european model of forestry: multifunctional forestry, predominantly private ownership of the forest and close links with agriculture, as well as recreational space for citizens and habitat for many animals and plants. the report also deals with the regional characteristics of forestry: in the south, for example, as already mentioned, the problems of forest fires or the cork oaks; in central europe, the high utility of the forest, with its importance for recreation and tourism and its vital protective functions, especially in the alpine regions; the main reason for this is that the market orientation of wood production is the main reason for the decline in the number of farms. and it also highlights the climate policy importance of wood energy and wood as a building material instead of fossil fuels and building materials. i thank the commissioner for having made this point very clearly. sustainably managed forests are like green lungs to me. this report particularly emphasises the need to coordinate forestry-related policies at eu level and, while respecting subsidiarity, to achieve additional effects for european forestry through joint and coordinated action. so it is a european forestry strategy. i would like to make it quite clear that i am opposed to a market organization in forestry, as is being discussed again and again. thank you again for this report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs mcguinness, very warmly for her report. the commissioner said in her introductory remarks that this report sees the strategic guidelines as a bridge between the rules of the council regulation on rural development and their implementation by the member states in the form of national strategies and programming documents. a major problem is the lack of financial forecasts. i know, commissioner, that you are not happy in the council with the reduced allocation for rural development decided in december. but we need the financial framework at last so that the programmes in the member states can be launched in time. greater flexibility in priorities is important for all of us. the community strategic guidelines are the basis for the development of national strategies. the main aspect is that the eu's priorities are taken into account and that there is sufficient room for manoeuvre for the member states. it is not just about creating new jobs, but also about safeguarding existing employment opportunities in agriculture and forestry and safeguarding all the upstream and downstream sectors which are of great importance to the employment situation in our rural regions, in order to achieve the objectives which mrs mcguiness has also very strongly addressed. our approach must continue to be to achieve the lisbon and gothenburg objectives together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can consider the same argument as mr wurtz, but i come to the opposite conclusion. we are opposed to this, precisely because we have been working very hard on it in recent weeks and, despite the many amendments, we have a very good overview, under the very good leadership of mrs gebhardt. we should vote now. (applause from the left)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the united nations, in a report published yesterday, has made it clear that it is calling on the united states to close guantánamo without further delay. we are of course doing the same with our resolution today. so far, only 10 of the 500 people currently detained at guantánamo have been charged, not in independent courts, but in specially set up military tribunals. arbitrary detention, torture and ill-treatment are flagrant violations of the geneva conventions. the bush administration must finally understand how cynical and how bad this approach is in the fight against terrorism. effective counterterrorism requires global advocacy to highlight the importance of international law, which prohibits the indiscriminate killing of civilians. the bush administration is not just ignoring this right in guantanamo, but also there.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention once again to the five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor who are being held in libya. in 1999, they were accused of intentionally infecting more than 400 children with the aids virus by means of blood transfusions. after being sentenced to death in 2004, the legally controversial death sentences were overturned. we welcome the decision of the supreme court and hope for a more transparent process and a fairer trial. after these people have been subjected to seven years of imprisonment and torture, we hope that the process will not be exploited and abused for political ends and objectives. as long as these people are not free, it is our duty as members of parliament to draw attention to this case and to follow it closely.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am pleased, commissioner, that many of our proposals contained in my report have been accepted. it is important that we create a broad public for this discussion. the figures and statistics are important for this, but they need common rules not only within the european union but also in third countries, because we know that the inflow is coming from third countries. that's why you should include these. i would like to thank the commissioner for his willingness to have the study 'the impact of prostitution on human trafficking' drawn up. but this should not only include legal prostitution but also illegal prostitution. similarly, it is necessary to ask what the situation is in countries where prostitution is illegal. what about the mobility of the grooms? that's part of the study, too. you've already explained what you want to achieve with the visa requirement for the world cup. i assume and hope that you are concerned with better visa controls, not with the introduction of a temporary visa, because then the question is: where do you start and where do you end? we are now taking the world cup as an opportunity to draw attention to this problem in connection with the world cup, because it is reaching a wide audience. but forced prostitution is just as much a part of conventions, trade fairs and here in strasbourg when the european parliament is in session. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would ask you to set priorities at the council meeting in brussels in april. austria will have to prepare to deal with this problem when it hosts the 2008 european championship. so there must be good suggestions. we all need it. you have underlined the importance of europol. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. there is a lot more to be said on this, but perhaps the colleagues will take over.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. more and more entrepreneurs are attracted to the east by low labour costs and seemingly better production conditions - a decision for which they are naturally keen to profit from eu funds, as such a relocation is cost-intensive. the main sectors affected so far have been the labour-intensive low-technology sectors. the trend is now also increasing in research and development. the commission has already made a number of proposals. even the most optimistic person must realize that multinational corporations do not care whether they exploit the environment, whether they ruin small and medium-sized enterprises or even leave behind an army of unemployed. eu funds and national aid cannot change this, nor can seven-year stock guarantees, which are hardly worth the paper they are written on. it is no longer a question of solidarity or competition between member states. it is more a question of the survival of our european economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you said there would be no new posts at the fourth world water forum. one thing is for sure, you'll have a lot of work to do! you said the right to water is a human right. that was the point of contention at the last water forum. the conflict has manifested itself in the dispute over whether the availability of clean drinking water is a human right that the state must guarantee, or whether it is a need that should be satisfied by the market. despite massive protests from the activists present, the ministers at the time refused to include the right to water in the final declaration. i wish you much success in achieving the status of human rights in mexico city. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is organized by the world water council, which is very much dominated by private industry and private companies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european water authority, the creation of a european water authority, the creation of a european water authority, and the establishment of a european water authority. i would like to see discussions taking place in the future, perhaps within the framework of the united nations, where there is the appropriate democratic legitimacy, and not under the massive influence of those companies which are earning a gold nose in many countries of the world with their water supply and disposal.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. the vote shows that he worked across party lines and spoke for the whole house. i would also like to thank the commission for taking this holistic approach in this area of crisis response and natural disaster management. the crisis response instrument we are discussing is only part of the overall framework with which the european union is trying to cope with disasters and to find answers to them. in this context, i should also like to mention that i too come from a region which has been hit by floods, and last friday the commission allocated a substantial amount of money to help alleviate this disaster. i would like to thank the european solidarity committee for its support. the key is that we follow the rapporteur's recommendation and change the legal basis. i also believe that article 175 is the appropriate article to provide an appropriate legal basis for this instrument. the extension of the scope of the directive to include prevention, disaster prevention in third countries and marine pollution also seems to me to be essential. in general, we have the opportunity here to give the european citizens an answer to their concerns, to their questions and to help them quickly and without bureaucracy. we can really make the community visible here, and this instrument should be used. it is not helpful to refer to complicated administrative procedures or committees which have to meet before the eu. this is where you really need to help quickly and unbureaucratically. this would be much more profitable than expensive information campaigns that are sent out anyway. i would like to end with a word from the french statesman taillerand, who said: not too much enthusiasm! in this area, that word would be completely out of place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the impact of natural disasters.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am glad that we are having this debate, because i am not one of those who want to judge this question by creating winners and losers, playing the old against the new. we live in a community. it is very important that we should state very clearly here today that the four freedoms are among the fundamental rights of the european union. the european union's principles include the prohibition of discrimination. the four freedoms are at the heart of the internal market. the implementation of the four freedoms makes the internal market the home market. these eu principles - the political objectives - are clear and they unite us. we must implement them as quickly as possible. we have not yet implemented it because we also have different political frameworks. we have different social legislation, wage legislation, tax legislation, and employment legislation. we have 19 million unemployed, we have different growth rates, which are higher in the new member states - thank god - than in the old member states. this is the result of the fears and worries of the citizens. the number of people employed in my country, which has the longest external border with the new member states, is also increasing. but we have to respond to the concerns and fears of the citizens within the framework of the possibilities, the treaties, community law. we are not blocking, but creating acceptable transitions. transitions are not our goal; our goal is to implement the four freedoms, to take fear and to look for common solutions together. we have to approach each other and not blame.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if it were not for the linguistic difficulties, it would be quite useful in the european parliament to work on, examine and discuss commission reports in the relevant committees. in this case, where the employment committee is responsible, we have an advance discussion and a preliminary request on this point today. i think that is quite literally unnecessary. there may be reasons for this, but i think it's expendable. in advance. the commission's communication, which is intended to help to eliminate the transitional period for the free movement of workers, is still incomplete in terms of content and not yet conclusive in economic terms. the present-day respondents who speak of a disadvantage for the citizens of the 10 new member states (eu-10) compared to third-country nationals have also failed to look at the facts. in germany, eu-10 nationals have an employment rate 3% higher than non-eu nationals. in austria, the difference is as much as 6%. even more extreme are the positions in favour of the eu-10 in the uk and ireland. moreover, data from just one year after accession do not yet allow a reliable forecast of the medium and long-term development of the labour market as presented by the commission. the conclusion in the communication that labour market opening has a positive effect on economic growth and employment is simply wrong in relation to the period under review. economic growth in the eu-25 declined markedly in 2005 compared with 2004. in particular in the uk, where the decline was 1.4%, and where there was ten times more immigration than the uk government had forecast. unlike in previous years, there has been almost no decline in unemployment either. i therefore call on the commission to commission a study, as soon as possible, which will analyse the migration of workers and all the effects it has had, without any value. this is not only good for the commission, it is good for further meaningful dialogue. moreover, the rapid reduction of the transitional periods - and i hope this is also the case - requires a good accompanying concept and accompanying measures, such as the revision of the posting of workers directive. it would be useful for everyone to reduce anxiety and worry on the one hand and to make us more open to dialogue on both sides. i think that the debate we are having today is simply wrong.
in writing. we, the members of the austrian people's party in the european parliament, are in favour of gender equality and also of an active policy in this area. we therefore consider the inclusion of this issue in the proposed european agency for human rights to be a good signal and reaffirm our agreement to see gender equality issues as an important task of the agency in the european parliament resolution of 26 may 2006 (kinga gal report). we are opposed to the creation of additional independent bodies, which will become a new and expensive bureaucracy in their own right, and we reject unsecured financial commitments of the estimated amount of some eur 52 million, given that the financing is still open.
in writing. mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to humans, ecosystems and wildlife. mercury has been identified as a priority hazardous substance under the water framework directive and also delays microbiological processes in soil. mercury is a persistent substance and can be converted in the environment into highly toxic methylmercury, which also has enormous negative effects on human health. dental amalgam, released through dental surgeries and crematoria, is a significant source of mercury emissions. therefore, it is necessary that dental amalgam waste is disposed of properly. the use of mercury in dental amalgam is a hot topic. the approach that all potential hazards from the use of mercury in dental amalgam should be considered is to be supported. measures shall be taken in accordance with the results of the examination.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are therefore now taking new initiatives to promote digital expansion. digital libraries and tachographs, biometric passports and e-government are supposed to work wonders. the 40% share of information and communication technology in productivity growth is indeed impressive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. although the digital sector is again projected to grow strongly, it will cut more jobs than it creates. the high-tech sector is particularly mobile, moving to the eastern member states and then eventually to countries such as india and china. once again, the eu's dreams of big business as a job machine will not come true. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. smes are equipped to become more productive, competitive and to enter new markets. we will have to give these mediumsized enterprises more support.
thank you very much for your comprehensive reply, madam minister. i have an additional question on the subject of the european constitution. in the second part of that document we envisaged that the result of the work of the then convention on fundamental rights should supplement and enrich, in a certain sense, and in some cases also deepen, what is contained in article 6 of the present treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
thank you for your answer, madam minister. you mentioned these trivial procedures and also the cross-border protection for both sides. my supplementary question is: how will european consumers be informed about their legal remedies in the future?
mr president, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. consumers are increasingly taking advantage of the new opportunities offered by the internet, and in particular by e-commerce. are there any considerations in this area with regard to improving or protecting legal remedies? how soon and how quickly can we expect to see results that are better than the present situation?
mr president, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. i also believe that the internal market must have a functioning legal system and, in particular, a functioning enforcement of the law. but what is the cost plan? enforcement is always a cost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. interest rate policy also has a significant influence on government debt. what is your view of interest rate policy in the context of the stability pact?
the commission has already done so. everyone in your group - and you too - speaks of simplification, and these complicated european procedures are a major criticism. could you give me some concrete examples of what is being simplified and what is being improved? secondly, is there a record of what it actually costs to administer the programmes and how much will flow directly to european citizens in the future through these programmes?
i'm not going to tell you. it is generally to be welcomed that the european commission is taking initiatives in the field of entrepreneurship, such as the cip, but also here. because in the end, jobs are created only where something is offered, something is bought. do you see a chance here that we could also, in the public relations work in the european commission, together with mrs wallström, bring these initiatives to a somewhat wider public?
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, i can see that there is no need to panic, as you say. i would like to ask you, however, whether it would not be sensible, in the course of the accession negotiations with turkey, to negotiate in this direction so that such coins can be withdrawn from circulation very quickly. the temptation to misuse these coins exists for turkish parallel societies in europe - for example in germany or austria. could this not be accelerated - even though, as you say, coinage is very expensive - in order to reduce the damage to europe and the european economy?
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner is right to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we all know that. it is only going to make matters more complicated if the commission is not prepared to bring more transparency into its decision-making process. the crucial meeting of this supreme council will take place in mid-april. why is the commission not prepared to say simply, on the basis of the criteria it has set out: this is how far we have come, these are the figures and this is how far we can go. if you just do more blackout, you can't expect more satisfaction in the language sections.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in a parliamentary democracy, representatives of the people can, must, should and may be role models. if so many of us are now forced to demand that their national populations make concessions, that can only work in the sense of democracy if we make concessions here too. take the budget of the parliament down from 1.2 billion, 1.3 billion to less than one billion. that's how you get credibility. a few suggestions: the many members who have promised to pay only their actual travel expenses are supposed to give back their surpluses. in 2004, there were only 37, and they made a ridiculous 234,000 euros. we know that 26 million euros are being wasted because interpreters are not being used properly. the many minutes of meaningless silence cost millions more, and more and more. a hundred million euros a year goes to something. you're looking for something to put it in. get it off! saving the 300 million wouldn't be a problem. it would not only save headlines in the international press, but also make a positive impression. i say that as a pro-european. you'll wake up tomorrow with something to say: scandal, scandal! no, what's going on here is a scandal! i am sorry, but europe cannot progress unless we save money right here at the top!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three points: first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. this is a huge job, a good job. we can only congratulate mrs. grässle on this achievement. secondly, if there is any purpose to this work, it is surely to try to make our programmes and our resources more efficient. but this also means that in future we will have to measure the commission's work more closely on the basis of efficiency. this means that in future discharge procedures in this house we will have to change our methods to move a little bit from the rule of law to more efficient standards. thirdly, as a member from a small alpine region, i expect the commission - also in connection with the often announced transparency initiatives - to provide information on the average size of the firms participating in european programmes, the average size of a small or medium-sized enterprise benefiting from european money, and the final amount of time a company has to pre-finance in order to benefit from european funds. this is also of great importance for the future assessment of the commission's work and the implementation of european programmes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 142 in conjunction with rules 132 and 137 of the rules of procedure. democracy can only function if the personal conduct of the people's representatives does not run counter to the wishes and promises of the electorate. if we demand - and we must in part - that there be a waiver when public budgets are short, i would ask you once again to start your meetings on time. today it was five minutes late again. your personal behaviour with the accumulated delays has already cost the taxpayer hundreds of thousands of euros. i would like to ask those colleagues who have made a central election pledge to be honest about their costs - and i am referring to the leading newspapers in the world today, the international herald tribune and the new york times - to finally do so. (the president cut the speaker off) it is bitter that you are now trying to take my word.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i made the remark and asked you to please come here on time. your predecessor, pat cox, saved the taxpayer hundreds of thousands of dollars. the same applies to committees. the damage caused is 12 million euros every year. then you can't say we don't have money for important social projects.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! i wish all the institutions well in the actions to be taken in the coming weeks or at the summit, which must set the course for the future of europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. we call for actions that make clear that we are clearly rejecting particularism, protectionism and the 'everyone is his own neighbour' mentality. we call for bold, concrete, verifiable european action by the member states on growth and employment and on energy policy. we call on the member states to finally follow the services directive and the financial perspective and not to stand still. what do we want? firstly, we want decisive action so that the european union can develop more courageously, more credibly and more decisively towards political union. political union is our primary objective. secondly, we must create a functioning internal market and take action to ensure that it is finally developed into a home market. when can we talk about the home market for all? if we implement the four freedoms for all eu citizens without limits as soon as possible. freedom and responsibility instead of chains, protectionism, nationalism and restrictive transitional rules are our aim and create a common added value for the citizens of europe. (applause from the centre) thirdly, if we nationalise rather than europeanise, we are throwing sand in people's eyes. where are the initiatives and projects to implement plan d and to involve citizens in the european project? fourthly, i also call for the european parliament to be involved in all the decisions on the internal market, on growth and employment, and on the financial perspective. it is clear that the rule of unanimity in the council blocks, hinders and complicates european solutions and reinforces particularism. we don't want that. fifthly, we need concrete european projects, not merely national action plans: the creation of a european research framework, the creation of a european infrastructure, the creation of a european energy market, the creation of a european airspace, the creation of a european initiative for start-ups and innovation, the development of european educational programmes. we want to see projects and actions, not just statements. sixthly, we do not have a common economic policy. we must therefore coordinate economic policies much more closely. the eu is an opportunity. particularism and protectionism are our own risks. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if even mr poettering, in his opening statement today, had to criticise the austrian presidency's representation - specifically the absence of chancellor schüssel - then perhaps this absence is also due to the fact that the message that the austrian presidency had to convey to us is extremely modest and inadequate. these ungrateful tasks are then gladly left to others. the message is modest and insufficient in terms of objectives, particularly in terms of reducing unemployment, given the scale of unemployment and our original objective in the lisbon process, and modest, insufficient and wrong in terms of means. structural reforms alone will not achieve even these modest objectives. the union and the member states must raise additional money. without money, no music. we learned that from mozart.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in contrast, in times of rising dividends and profits and rising managerial fees, the number of jobs is falling. in europe, five times as many jobs are affected by restructuring as by insolvency. in austria alone, an estimated 15 000 to 20 000 jobs have been lost to the new member states in recent years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the public sector has been restructured considerably more than private property, not least because of eu requirements. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of renewable energy sources. when restructuring is used as a substitute for a clear strategy, there is a high risk of failure. the eu has so far even supported this trend by privatising and encouraging promotional tourism. it is time for it to take up its responsibilities, to abandon further enlargement, which is a co-factor in these developments, and to return to greater social justice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the problem is, of course, that some of the colleagues who have been prepared for the brok report are not here now and will not be here until later. of course, we can make some adjustments. mrs napoletano was prepared to speak later, and i am speaking now because i am speaking primarily on the subject of the balkans. of course, you can mix it up now. but some colleagues will also be angry that they were not able to speak on the brok report because they were not there. that's the problem!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make just two brief remarks on the middle east. firstly, we rightly demand that hamas must accept the realities and renounce violence. but this must not be a license for israel to continue its unilateral policy of violence, as we have just seen. secondly, the nuclear policy of europe and the united states must be brought to a coherent basis, especially in view of the different treatment of india and iran. secondly, the international atomic energy agency in vienna must be given a greater role in a multilateral system of uranium enrichment and nuclear waste disposal. if we stick to these principles, progress will be made. as far as the balkans are concerned, we are, i think, acting under the motto 'what is not a step back is progress'. it is the fault of some member states - and i and my group are very concerned - that the question of making europe receptive is being played off against the prospect of accession for the balkan countries. but europe will not become strong by robbing the balkan countries of their prospects of accession or by pushing them far away. the vision of eu membership, which this parliament has so often adopted and my group has also adopted unanimously, must remain the guiding principle. the obvious demand for an increase in the eu's capacity to receive refugees - i am thinking of the constitution, the financial base - cannot and must not be used against the aspirations of the countries of south-east europe to join the eu. we must make preparations on our side and in parallel with those in the balkans. while both sides are making this thorough preparation for enlargement, concrete steps must be taken to bring the balkan countries closer to the european union, not least by significantly easing the visa regime. i hope that you will do something concrete to give young people in this region, in particular, a chance to finally get to know europe. despite the premature death of slobodan milošević in many respects, the task of bringing all the perpetrators to the hague remains in the interests of the victims and the common future of europe. we must certainly insist on that. the balkan countries, which have been the playthings of the great european powers so often in the history of our continent, must be gradually integrated into the european union. we will not accept any relegation of the balkan countries to an earlier stage of their proximity to the european union. if we are to vote for the brok report tomorrow, it will be with this clear statement in the text and not with interpretations, as has unfortunately been repeatedly done in the last few hours, which, however, distort the actual text of the brok report. we are in favour of the european perspective of the balkan countries. (applause from the centre)
mr president, dear social democrats, especially germans and austrians! hurrah, you've turned your populist balls, which you usually swing at former party leaders or even top candidates, over your heads - what you call populist balls. there is a process of awakening and a wake-up, driven by voters, driven by realistic economic figures, and hopefully also driven by insight. the debates we have had in your group over the years have now led to a paper with which we can begin to do something. that is wonderful, mr kuhne. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the internal market. that's what this is about. there is hope, because what you represent is not only a majority among your voters, but in europe as a whole. with a reasonable perspective, it can go forward. not with all the self-righteous talk you've been doing.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should also like to thank the rapporteur for his really excellent reports and also the shadow rapporteurs who have worked very efficiently here. i think that both reports are very important files in this parliament, especially the report on protected geographical indications and protected designations of origin. the commissioner mentioned that over 700 products have already been registered and 300 cases have been initiated. this is an essential aspect for european agriculture and the countryside. i believe that these products are also intellectual property and that these products contribute to the identity of a region. if we are opening up our markets to products from third countries, we must also be able to assume that the same quality and social standards prevail in these countries as in the european union. we live in a global world. nevertheless, madam commissioner, fair competition is only possible if the same conditions and rules apply and are applied within the wto. in general, however, care must be taken to ensure that the procedure is rigorously checked and does not involve levelling down. quality comes with a price. as president köhler said yesterday, we must be better in the european union in so many ways, as we are also more expensive. one example: we have 180,000 farmers in austria who produce. these are proven to provide some 600 000 jobs in the upstream and downstream sectors. this also shows the importance of active and productive family farms and enterprises in rural areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. over the last two centuries, population growth, the exploitation of natural resources and pollution have led to a rapidly increasing loss of growth. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. forests, for example, not only provide us with the raw material wood and enrich the air with oxygen, but also purify our water and prevent erosion and flooding, a function that is becoming increasingly aware in all parts of the world as the impact of climate change increases. the world summit on sustainable development in 2002 - and the commissioner said this - decided to reduce the rate of biodiversity loss. the european parliament delegation at the time strongly criticised this lack of ambition. within the european union, we went beyond this demand and said that by 2010 we must achieve a reversal in the decline in biodiversity. i believe that the european commission and the member states must continue to take the lead and ensure that the 8th conference of the states parties agrees on measurable targets to be achieved within a given timeframe. the european union and the member states should also pay particular attention to the biodiversity of the oceans, and the european union itself must take care of this. i would like to mention the european fisheries policy as a reference point, a subject which is currently being discussed with colleagues from the acp states because of the alarming declines in the stocks of various fish species.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many of the diseases afflicting people in europe today are more or less directly related to the way we live. just think of the increase in diet-related diseases or those caused by lack of exercise. it is therefore certainly an important approach when promoting strategies for a healthier lifestyle. however, the success of this is questionable when some 1.4 billion euros are invested in a health information system that is only used to exchange health reports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. health really starts with attitude toward life. if you exercise a lot and eat sparingly but naturally, you'll stay healthier - every child knows that. the citizens have long known what is harmful to their health, even without the corresponding labels on cigarette packs, beer and wine, sweets or finished products, which only disempower and protect the individual citizen who wants to be a mature citizen. the success of such supposedly deterrent measures is questionable and, in my view, not desired by the citizens. in one survey, 66% of respondents said they would encourage health-conscious behaviour, for example by reducing insurance premiums for regular health checks. we should be moving more in this direction, which is promising. and what is more, one thing is absolutely clear: preventing disease would also relieve our health care system of financial burdens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to join in the words of thanks to our friend trakatellis, who has done a very good job. but i would also like to thank the commissioner because the commission is also doing very well, particularly in the area of avian influenza, which is closely linked to it. health is certainly the area of greatest concern to all of us and, of course, to our citizens. you can see, of course, that life expectancy has increased dramatically in recent years. there are figures that say that since 1840, life expectancy has been increasing linearly by 2.5 years per decade. this, of course, also means new challenges for our health and social care systems. this means that we are getting older, but we have to make sure that - especially from the side of politics and medicine - that life expectancy in health is getting longer and people are not only getting older, but also healthier. we are facing new challenges. they have been mentioned in some cases, such as the bird flu, which could become a pandemic and cause problems in europe like never before. we need to be well equipped to do the right thing in time. i would also like to remind you that the problems of aids, cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease are still on the agenda because they continue to pose major risks to our citizens. we must also be clear that, of course, health is a matter for the member states. but we must think about where we can contribute in concrete terms, from the european side, to this much-cited european added value, where we can do something from the european side to make our citizens live longer and healthier lives. one area is certainly this transboundary factor. disease does not stop at borders. another factor is certainly the findings. i would like to mention one more fact: the medical knowledge has increased enormously, and this, of course, comes at a cost. if we were to take the knowledge of bismarck and apply it to the present, our health budgets would be burdened with only 1%. the remaining 99% is based on findings made later. of course, this also means that health costs money. i therefore strongly support the rapporteur's request that the european union also provide the 1.5 billion euro. we cannot decide on great health programmes and then not provide the necessary money. another point is the whole area of prevention. as i have said before, people are getting older. this also means that healthy living and prevention will increase. more importantly, there is a lot of research to be done here to clean up our health budgets in the long term. we are on the right track overall, but we must not close our eyes to the challenges ahead.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is precisely the situation that mrs thyssen rightly raised. we criticised yesterday - and quite rightly so - that while our colleagues were coming in we had speakers and commissioners speaking, and no one could really listen to them. now we're back to the same situation. if it is not possible in this house either to organise the debates so tightly that the times are respected or to actually provide for a period between the vote and the end of the debate, then other ways should really be considered here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in history, we know that many empires have failed because they grew too fast and could not control their opposing cultures and currents within that growth. i think it is therefore long overdue to discuss the european union's ability to host. we must not forget that the name european union itself implies a clear demarcation by the very term europe. we must also be clear that europe is based on christian values. that alone is one reason why i would like to agree wholeheartedly with mr posselt on croatia. on the other hand, however, it must be said that events of the recent past have shown that the belief in unlimited tolerance, so widespread today, is wrong. tolerance should be mutual, and to date, in our increasingly multicultural society, this tolerance has been reflected in the expectation of muslim immigrants of christian host countries to adapt and in their increasingly violent demands. in the context of the accession negotiations, turkey has repeatedly shown its true face, for example in the cyprus agreement, with threats of penalties for alleged insults to the state, and now also in the cartoon dispute. the last fantasy of enlargement should finally face the truth, namely that we must set clear european boundaries. (applause from the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. contrary to what is commonly believed in some economic circles, consumer protection has nothing to do with protectionism. on the contrary, the economy cannot flourish without consumer confidence, and the consumer is more mature than the multinationals and the eu generally believe. the commission's position on this matter is strangely contradictory. on the one hand, it initiates coordinated policies, for example with the green paper on promoting healthy eating and physical exercise, on the other hand, it undermines consumer protection with the services directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has also been concerned about the debt situation of its citizens and has tried to discourage even small overdrafts by means of a high level of bureaucracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budgetary procedure. as the recent scandal over spoiled meat in germany has shown, the black sheep in the food industry are not faced with enough inspectors. the number of dangerous products has almost doubled in the electrical goods and toys sectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not misused. then we'd probably have real consumer protection.
the commission has already done so. so far, kazakh president nazarbayev has been acting on the old adage "keep your friends close and your enemies closer" and has tried to integrate them into his regime. but it seems to him that this is getting worse, because criticism of him is increasing, although he was only recently in my home country of carinthia for a week-long stay in curaçao, apparently to strengthen it. it can't be a coincidence that two opposition politicians, as we heard, died under mysterious circumstances shortly after they had revealed the dirty workings of the presidential clan. it is essential, in my view, that the investigation of these murders be conducted in a transparent manner and with the involvement of impartial witnesses. as advanced as kazakhstan may be in its economic development, not least because of its vast mineral resources, it is lagging behind, and we all agree on this, in democratic matters. allegations of electoral fraud in last december's presidential election have been made public, and the daughter of the president elected under such questionable circumstances is reportedly the ceo of the largest television station, her husband the head of the tax office. the registration of political parties is partially denied and activists are known to be persecuted. it's a good idea, if the funeral guests of the murder victim are punished. in view of this dubious democratic capacity, it is not acceptable that kazakhstan could possibly assume the osce chairmanship in 2009. i think the eu must be very firm in its opposition. it is perhaps also worth considering following the us approach and making financial and economic aid more dependent on progress in the field of democracy and civil and human rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that today, a month after the brutal murder of the prominent politician sarsenbaev, is the right time to have an urgent debate on the situation in kazakhstan. within three months, two prominent opposition politicians were assassinated, and the political climate has deteriorated greatly. we call on the kazakh authorities to allow a full, independent and transparent investigation into the circumstances of the deaths and to allow international observers to attend. the politically motivated murders are just the tip of the iceberg. the internet censorship has been mentioned and the pressure on opposition politicians and journalists has increased overall. we condemn the detention of participants in a peaceful rally to commemorate the death of altynbek sarsenbaev and call on the kazakh government to respect its obligations under the partnership and cooperation agreements, in particular respect for democracy and human rights.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we are discussing today the issue of impunity in africa, and we have already discussed the importance of the international criminal court. we are also discussing the case of the former dictator of chad. habré ruled chad from 1982 to 1990, his one-party system was marked by severe human rights abuses and widespread campaigns of violence against his own people. the us and france supported habré for a long time, seeing his regime as a bulwark against gaddafi. during ronald reagan's presidency, habré received massive military aid and paramilitary support through the cia. you have to say that once. it is not only that we should not teach lessons to other continents, but we must also be aware that wherever bloody dictatorships rule, there has been support from large western countries for a long time. the question now is how to end the impunity of habré. i think it is good that an african solution is found. if that fails, habré should be extradited to the belgian authorities to put an end to the impunity of a bloody dictator.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would ask you to think even more deeply than you did in the paper you presented, about how you can communicate the content and objectives you have correctly defined to the citizens. mr president, competitiveness is one of your important topics, it is one of our important topics! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. no, without strengthening competitiveness we cannot maintain the social system in europe, without strengthening competitiveness we cannot maintain the social model in europe. the same is true of education. education is not something that is only for the elite. education must reach the broadest possible range if we are to achieve one of europe's essential objectives, namely to prevent the exclusion of individuals or groups. education is also important, especially when we consider that we are de facto a continent of immigrants. it is very important that we develop the education sector accordingly for the integration of newly arrived citizens. as regards the globalisation fund to which you referred, it is only really feasible if, on the other hand, we do not too often have to use it because of increased competitiveness. the second example i would like to take, because you emphasize it very strongly in your paper, is energy policy. i do not want to prejudge the honourable member who is speaking after me, but one important issue you have raised is the security of energy supplies. i am very glad that you were in moscow recently and that - as far as i have heard - you have made some progress, although it may still be up to russia to make some decisions, particularly on the energy charter. i also heard you say recently that we should also talk about nuclear energy. you are right, and i am very glad that the commissioner responsible for energy is coming now. although i am sceptical about nuclear energy, we must talk about it, including the risks involved. if we are discussing the question of proliferation, particularly in connection with iran, more nuclear energy means more dangers if we do not work together multilaterally to ensure that the risks associated with it are minimised as much as possible. i think that more should be said on this subject, both from your side and in the context of the green paper. this is particularly true of infrastructure development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals put forward by the rapporteur. in that sense, i support it. but i wish you even more strength and courage to implement these decisions. you mentioned montesquieu, someone else wanted machiavelli. i wish you the wisdom of a montesquieu, but also the strength and ingenuity of a machiavelli to carry out your programme.
i like portugal and the portuguese. i have no doubt about that. mr. commissioner, i would ask you to give me a very brief explanation of why you have not done so. the european parliament is the only institution in the world that has the power to make decisions on the basis of the treaty. yes, there is a plan b of herr duff and a lot more. they have not once the chance, these european things, that we want to have, in einer sinnvollen form zusammenzufügen. this is the big one. they can vote and thus enter history, but they can also completely fail. but look at the eu now, was a debattenbeiträgen zur frage der verfassung und der positionierung der eu wirklich kommt. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. show yourself over the wide ocean! think a little bit about vasco da gama and talk about china and then come together so that we can really take advantage of this historic opportunity, which will only happen once, before the european project simply blows up or implodes. i was wondering if you could tell me. you should also already say that you will then have something to say, because it is otherwise the old trick will be worked, and it will most certainly lead to failure.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have been engaged in a new strategic debate for several months. we see the conflict with iran, we see the war in iraq, but also opec countries, which were not thought to be able to come to such developments here. we see the chinese strategically buying into the energy markets, we see russia moving away from a continuous, reliable policy, and we see global markets in a very dynamic development. that is why we must stick to our objectives, the objectives of the lisbon agenda. we want jobs and growth. that is why energy policy - and i thank commissioner piebalgs for putting energy efficiency at the centre of this - is a top priority. here our small and mediumsized enterprises can open up completely new business areas. this is where jobs in the craft sector are created, where small circuits are created that give us energy security. on the other hand, we must not forget the competitiveness of our energy industry. i would like to ask the commission in particular to do a lot of research into what the kyoto protocol will mean for our energy-intensive core industries, such as the steel and aluminium industries and many other sectors, and for our energy production after 2012. i believe that sustainability must also be considered from an environmental perspective, particularly in the context of competitiveness. i call on the commission and on mr barroso, the president of the commission, to take on this important task, which is of paramount importance for our future in europe, through the various commission services - whether in the field of communication strategy, tax policy, external economic policy, foreign policy, competition policy or environmental policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many development policy discussions focus on the financial aspect. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the european union is a very good one. we know that the council's proposal here too makes many of the objectives which have been repeatedly stated unattainable. this applies to a wide range of fields: student exchange programmes, conservation of biodiversity, but of course particularly to development policy programmes, programmes to combat poverty and programmes to achieve sustainable development. the debate on the revision of the cotonou agreement is not about the financial perspective, which is being so intensely negotiated at the moment, because the european development fund is not yet included in the budget, but it is about the same exact problem. i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the council. parliament regretted that the council had included the total amount decided for the 10th european development fund in the commission's calculations. the exact figures have been mentioned several times. the reduction of 2 billion is contrary to the commitments made by the union in the revision of the cotonou agreement and ignores all the promises to increase development aid substantially. we call on the member states to increase their contributions to the 10th edf substantially in order to meet the commitments and promises made. i am also very glad that it will be a unanimous resolution, because of course there is a lot of support for the positions expressed by the various colleagues here today. i would also like to reiterate my support for the amendments which are now before us, particularly as regards the question of how the development dimension of the economic partnership agreements is to be financed. is it financing a so-called development dimension and taking that from money earmarked for achieving the millennium development goals, or - and this is what we are asking for and what i would like to see called for in the resolution - should the additional money be? i would also like to support once again the request made by my colleague, mrs glenys kinnock, that when romania and bulgaria join the union - and that will be very soon - there will be additional funds for the 10th edf.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. crossborder cooperation between political parties is nothing new in europe. but even parties in the same political-ideological family often represent different political cultures. despite the millions of dollars of funding planned, it will always be possible to agree on the lowest common denominator, and that has so far been mostly electoral programmes and campaign posters. i think that the european parties will not be able to help us out of this dilemma. it is true that there is agreement that the european union is in crisis. but instead of finally addressing the causes of this crisis, vast sums of money are being pumped into european political parties. the reasons for this lack of confidence in the eu's leadership, which we know, are many: unrealistic promises made at the time of the accession of the various member states, the eu's too rapid eastward enlargement against the will of a majority of citizens, an imposed eu constitution, contributions increases and now also proposed eu taxes. it is interesting to observe how gullible the political establishment of the european union actually thinks its citizens are. declining voter turnout, negative referenda and growing eu frustration are not seen as criticism of the union, but as a cue for national governments. but we will not achieve a change of mind with new european political parties; trust must be earned, whether it is good or bad, by good performance. the eu has really managed to not only lose most of its advance gains, but to oversleep on crucial developments or even steer them in the wrong direction - errors that citizens feel, for example in the form of rising unemployment rates and massive increases in euro prices. even if we invest the planned 8.4 million euros per year in the party project, i think that this is hardly adequate to create the desired european awareness. we can only achieve this if we give the critical citizen the opportunity to finally really participate directly in the big decisions such as enlargements and the constitution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is already depressing how the opponents of the eu, who have a mandate in the european parliament, are treading on every single measure, every single plant with which we are trying to develop the european union, to involve the citizen - none of us has said that we have a patent recipe - instead of pouring it. none of us thinks that political parties are ends in themselves. we all believe that they are a possible means, a necessary means in parliamentary democracy, of involving the citizen in the legislative process and of being able to represent him adequately. none of us here has said that a party statute alone can generate real political party activity. we have a saying, "no music without money". but music doesn't come from money, it needs critical, qualified, educated people in the orchestra. it needs instruments, it needs notes, it needs people who can decide what is played, and it needs conductors. i therefore appeal to all political parties to start doing something sensible with the money and the party statute, to get involved, to help the integration process with the national parties to happen at the european level. i do not see much in the europeanization of political debate, including by the european parties. they are not an additional party, they have an effect both internally and externally. one thing is clear: we believe that the eu must become more political, democratic, transparent and closer to the citizens. most of us make a positive contribution to this on a daily basis. we welcome the commission's initiative to support information and communication with plan d throughout europe. we deplore the fact that the european debate is not being encouraged, but that unfortunately national particularism, populism, nationalism and egoism are being practiced unabashedly at the moment. we want to strengthen the european parliament, support the independence of european members and reduce dependence on purely national interests. we deplore the lack of european publicity. many of us are in favour of europe-wide referendums and petitions. we therefore believe that political parties - and the prerequisite for this is a party statute - can contribute to removing these shortcomings and to exploiting the opportunities they present. the statute for european political parties is a successful contribution to the transparent and independent europeanisation of political debate. it strengthens our efforts to europeanise domestic policies rather than nationalise european policy. in conclusion, i would say that i am in favour of european lists in addition to national lists. the european list is in favour of the european lead candidate. yes, i am in favour of the candidacy of european parties as a complement to direct mandates through national parties. yes, we are in favour of strengthening training activities, foundation work and youth work in and through political parties at european level. that is why we support the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur, jo leinen, and the political parties in europe have followed a very similar career path over the past few decades: from quite high up to quite low down. only 2% of the german population still have confidence in political parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what's the cause of this break-in? that until now, parties and not citizens themselves have always been equated with democracy. we are not dealing with popular rule, but with party rule, and that is being stabilized, fattened up, inflated up like in the time of the dinosaurs by what you are planning here. that will fail, that will not move europe forward. the future belongs to verifiable elections of personalities, people who show what they really stand for, and who do not campaign within the spd, as the rapporteur does, and who, when they have a fixed place on the list, stop campaigning to campaign for outmoded european parties.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to apologise to commissioner wallström for the fact that there are members who are only making their speeches but not present at the debate. that's not really a thing in this house. i apologize for my colleagues.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his very dedicated own-initiative report and also for not sparing himself the trouble of going to different member states and seeing what opportunities there are in the renewable resources sector. the commissioner mentioned that energy has become the most important issue in the last six months. an ecological and economic energy mix is essential for europe. renewable resources, renewable energy, could also be the main pillars in this energy mix. in addition to wind, water, photovoltaics and biogas, this growing sector provides the basic needs for building materials, insulation and basic materials for pharmaceuticals. the production of food and plants for energy has been a habit for centuries. with the massive use of fossil fuels, the energy for our reptiles, which came from plants, was replaced. the production of renewable raw materials for energy is of fundamental importance for european agriculture, forestry and rural areas. it has opened up new income streams and also made a major contribution to not only maintaining but also creating employment in rural areas. the european union is right to see renewable energies as an important factor in energy use, so that it is no longer so dependent on international energy producers and, above all, on politically unstable regions. i thank you very much and congratulate the rapporteur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the contemporary media praises the single as the measure of all things. families with several children are considered to be antisocial. but the higher the proportion of childless people today, the more boys want to remain childless. i think that the parents of tomorrow will have to grow up with children in order to appreciate them. we must therefore take more measures to put the family back on its feet. if we do not want the traditional families in large cities to be formed only by immigrants, we must, in my view, also give more family support to the native population of europe. the balance between family and work is also an important starting point. it is not for nothing that those countries that have succeeded in doing so have higher birth rates.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say a few words on the subject of better regulation without informing you beforehand. we agreed that this important debate should take place this week. but it has become clear in the last few hours that there are still some questions to be settled in the vote. at least it has been discussed with the authors that we will not vote on all four reports on better regulation this week but at the next part-session. i do not know whether we can vote on this now, if there is a consensus. in any case, i wanted to point out today that there is a strong tendency not to hold the vote this week but only to hold the debate on the reports on better regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask the services to draw the attention of the president of the council to the fact that he is also putting the original concept of security, namely the fight against terrorism, in the foreground and not just dealing with transport safety. it is feared that only the second issue will be dealt with.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we agree with the request for a debate after the commission has delivered its opinion, but we do not want to draft a resolution now but, if possible, to see this question included in the forthcoming eurling report. i would just like to ask that we either deal with this on thursday at 3 p.m. or that we start earlier on thursday, otherwise we will be in trouble again on thursday with the vote on the two reports that are planned. we have the same situation again, that we would have to postpone the vote and so on. so either we can start earlier on thursday or we can deal with the question at 3 p.m. so that we can actually vote on the two reports that are being considered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to refer today to the way in which the commission deals with questions from members of parliament. i have recently put a very detailed request to the commission with three specific questions. i was given a short extract from a legal text. i believe that an organisation such as the commission can be expected to respond concretely to questions from members and to give them a substantive answer, rather than merely to send them a text of legislation. i'm a lawyer, and i could pick this one out myself. that's not the point of it. mr president, i would like to put this question and its answer to you. perhaps you share my indignation at this answer and can do something to make things better.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, for her excellent work, especially for including the shadow rapporteur and for the good discussion we had. when we started this work, we did not know what the current situation would be in this report. recent developments have shown how precarious some elements of europe's energy supply are and how necessary it is, for the competitiveness of our continent in particular, to improve the energy supply situation, to improve it in a sustainable way. we are very pleased that the commission, the council and the european parliament have reached a common position on the objectives to be pursued in energy policy and, above all, in energy supply. of course, not every network link and connection automatically creates more security, because certain problems may be transferred from one area to another. but if we get to a more interconnected electricity grid, but also to the natural gas and oil supply networks, then such problems are more easily solved. this is what the concept of diversification, to which we are committed, would bring, not only to the concept but also to the goal, if we invested more. mrs laperrouze is right: unfortunately, the budget does not provide enough for this particular area. but this would be a small part of the total cost, which the individual member states must bear, because it is in their interest. the need to be able to use european coordinators is also very important. the commission has already indicated that it is already having a positive effect in the transport sector. that's right, you're right. i did not agree with all the conditions when the coordinators were appointed, but in principle we need these coordinators to really move some projects forward. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the developing countries. these coordinators can be a mediator between the individual countries and perhaps avoid a situation such as that which has arisen with the project between russia and germany - not because the project is bad as such, but because countries such as poland and the baltic states could have been involved from the outset. i hope that in future we will have a truly european energy policy, even if it is for individual projects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner neelie kroes, who is in the chamber, because she is conducting the sector inquiry and she will show us where there are bottlenecks in the energy market and whether the bottlenecks are natural or deliberate. the second is that commissioner piebalgs is currently looking into the review. the outcome of this review will show where action is needed. the legislation of recent years has brought about completely new opportunities for the market, particularly in the area of unbundling. considering that 280 projects are being presented today - 19 of them in austria - it will be necessary to employ coordinators who can deal with the various problems arising from such links in an interdisciplinary manner. the coordinators could then perhaps also form a body which could consult amongst itself and make progress here with the methods of best practice and benchmarking. it might also be useful to develop concrete timetables, i.e. to fix the dates as well as the costs, and - as we have done in other areas - to change the priorities accordingly when different times are exceeded. the transfer stations also play a role in the area of liberalisation, but it is also a question of ownership. is the property located in the european union or outside the european union and does it require special contracts? this is an important foreign policy situation. another point is emergency systems. what happens in the event of an emergency or a terrorist attack or an act that causes us a major problem in the energy sector? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. we shall have to do a great deal of work on this in the future. i ask the commissioner to draw up a green paper on this subject so that action can be taken in emergency situations throughout europe and with our neighbours.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. a secure, reliable and affordable energy supply for the european union is essential, both for citizens and for resident businesses, to safeguard the union's industrial competitiveness. increasing the efficiency of energy production and making the best use of existing generation capacity and infrastructure is not only economically viable but also undoubtedly environmentally friendly. if we are building up energy network infrastructure across the eu, we should at least use new technologies to improve the efficiency of the networks, avoid unnecessary duplication of lines and minimise environmental impacts such as methane emissions from natural gas pipelines. it is also an important step towards the targeted reduction in energy consumption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the only reason why a non-european country should not become a member of the eu is to extend the eu to the borders of the energy-rich regions of the middle east and the caspian sea. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. i believe that this is also possible with turkey, which is not a member but only a privileged partner of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. competition policy is the engine of the success of the strategy for growth and employment. it is therefore clear that the european parliament is in favour of greater involvement because we want as much competition as possible and because we want as little regulation as necessary for social and environmental reasons, for fairness and for ethical values. so any border is a political issue. competition policy is the engine of the internal market. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the application of the four freedoms to competition policy. i feel that we always look at competition policy on three levels: competition policy within the member states, competition policy between the member states and competition policy of the european union in a global world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we have the altmark judgment which clearly sets out the criteria for the examination, but we often have evidence that the commission interprets these criteria differently. we have on the one hand the debate whether the examination of dominant positions should be based on the national market at one time and the european market at another time. we have no clear distinction between what is part of competition policy and what is part of welfare. now the chapter has been dropped from the report altogether. i think it is part of competition policy to ensure that the directives we adopt are also implemented at the same time. the uneven implementation of the directives leads to distortions of competition and is one of the causes of the increased protectionism against which we must take massive action. we therefore support the creation of a single european research area and a single energy area, as well as the co-decision of taxation policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what is democracy? whatever answers have been produced in the course of european history over the centuries, there is not one in which the public nature of legislation is not referred to as a fundamental building principle of democracy, without which there is no democracy. the council of the european union is committing this violation of a fundamental principle. it has the audacity to call this its own affair, its own political decision, and to reject the contractual obligation of openness and transparency with unheard-of cynicism, saying: this imperative of transparency applies to a future union. this is unacceptable to the european parliament. this report goes to the heart of the crisis of confidence in european citizenship. the more i deal with this problem - and it has been a major concern of mine in the convention, with success - the more the council appears to me as the black hole of democracy. it is the democratic deficit. parliament should do everything it can to ensure that this does not become an excuse for the preservation of our better conscience. we are the directly elected representatives of the european citizens, and we have to make this our cause. my proposal goes far beyond this report, for which i am very grateful: we, as a parliament, as representatives of the citizens of europe, should give the council an ultimatum by the end of this year. if the council does not then respect this basic principle of democracy and changes its rules of procedure and establishes the public nature of legislation, this house should reject all council legislative proposals which have not been publicly discussed and adopted.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mr papastamkos very much for his clear guidelines in hong kong. we are fortunate that a political framework has been reached in hong kong which now de facto sets the tone for the negotiations in geneva. politics has accomplished a great deal here. but the substance must now be worked out by the experts in geneva. we can only hope to do so as soon as possible. we know that this is not easy, but there is a certain time pressure, and it is only under time pressure that solutions in this area are usually achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that in this area the development box - an sme programme bringing together small family businesses in developed countries and in the least developed countries - would be a good tool for achieving success on both sides in the future. we need, of course, the parliamentary dimension in the various wto countries. we know that in every parliament there are representatives of the opposition and the government, and it is the opposition that could make a great deal of progress on these questions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the last point, which i think is not insignificant, is the transatlantic relationship. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can only agree with mr deß that we need a framework that promises success for all. we need the world market, and that is how it should be in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the task of author-deputes like myself in this house must be to be constructive in an avant-garde way by shaking up criticism, and the great ones awakened in this way must then put it into practice. othmar karas, you speak after me, this is a steep slope. what's happening now is that the mainstream in the eu is rubbing their eyes and saying, "yes, we really have a problem". but please, think the step forward. the forecast study shows impressively that we will not have full employment in the next few decades. we will instead be focusing on what a reporter from the new york times calls "the disposable american", which translates into european terms as "the disposable european". we'll have to find solutions. we have a huge problem with the services that are breaking us off and have so far provided jobs to replace the industrial jobs that have been broken off. we need to move forward, we need to look beyond today. yes, a key point, a starting point, is to re-allocate the many millions and billions which are still hidden in the eu budget and are going to meaningless areas. i am thinking, for example, of the fact that in france it is rice production that receives the most support in the agricultural sector. there is also the opportunity, since we have not yet completed the financial perspective, to improve things again and to start now what you will not do again for another five or ten years, when it will again be almost too late.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. why do we need economic policy guidelines? because we have no common economic policy. and that is why we do not have a common economic policy, because the instruments for an active economic policy are the responsibility of the member states: research policy, tax policy, education policy, to name just three areas. since our last report, the framework has become more rigid. we are increasingly seeing that the growth potential of the european union is not being exploited, that we are not sufficiently prepared for demographic developments and that we have not yet fully exploited the opportunities of globalisation for our continent. the energy crisis and high unemployment show that we have domestic problems on the one hand, and structural and global problems on the other, which we must tackle actively. we want the european parliament to be involved in all the internal market issues because we need more europe in cooperation with the member states on all these issues than is the reality at the moment. we therefore call for the implementation of all the internal market directives in this report. different implementation creates distortions of competition and costs growth and jobs. we are calling for measures to consolidate the budget of the countries with excessive deficits, because if we do not reform the social and pension systems, we cannot compete on a global scale. i would also urge full implementation of the sme charter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we voted in this house a few weeks ago on the services directive. a majority supported a compromise that would help maintain high social standards. the slogan was 'no social dumping'. but this protection against social dumping seems to be for the benefit of only an exclusive circle in europe. how else are the restrictions on the free movement of workers to be understood? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not closed to certain people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a whole new street has emerged in recent years: craftsmen, construction workers offer their services. and this road trip is a success. there's a lot of demand. people work as pseudo-employees or as black people, without social protection, for less than the minimum wage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transitional period is not extended. why do some employers' representatives want the discriminatory restrictions on citizens of other member states? is it because they are profiting from cheap seasonal workers, fake self-employed and black workers? and why, i ask, do not national workers' representatives fight much more vigorously against this form of exploitation? why do they make social security dependent on citizenship? perhaps it is a matter of pure populism, because you are only elected by the citizens of your own country, so it is not about the cause itself, but about personal gain on election day? three countries have so far opened their labour markets to new members of the union. you've had a good experience with it. in the year of mobility, i would urge everyone to make a decision to do so by 2007 at the latest. i would like to say a few words about the situation in the former yugoslavia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the legitimate desire to eliminate as quickly as possible the transitional periods for the free movement of workers, which constitute a barrier to european mobility, is not exactly facilitated by a superficial, inaccurate commission study. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. that would be a bigger problem. the failure to adopt accompanying measures to protect workers, such as a substantially improved posting directive and control and enforcement mechanisms, will only put greater pressure on the labour markets in germany and austria. i still lack the necessary accompanying measures from the commission. you can laugh, commissioner. the majority in parliament may now follow the commission report and the őry report and say that we do not care about the positions and interests of germany and austria - whatever with the transitional periods! as a member of parliament, i must also accept the majority. it's perfectly clear! but the fact that you are thereby fuelling the anti-european sentiment in our countries may not matter to you as the commissioner responsible for social affairs, and it certainly does not matter to me!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against undeclared work is certainly important in countering negative trends in the labour market. the free movement of workers will not solve this problem as hoped. employers who want to save on social security contributions will continue to do so. however, it is also worrying that more and more companies are pushing their employees into pseudo-independent relationships in order to try to circumvent wages and minimum social standards in other ways. we must put a stop to this development. we have repeatedly stressed the need to improve the employment situation. at the same time, the eu is committed to the mobility and flexibility of workers. however, studies show that in reality, stagnant workloads are simply distributed among more people by new forms of work such as parttime work. we are not doing enough to counter these developments, which is why i voted against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is under pressure at wto level in several areas. on the one hand, we will have to accept certain changes if we are to achieve the objective of combating poverty in the poorest countries, and on the other hand we must not make too high unilateral concessions. the acp countries in particular are in danger of cutting themselves in the throat by demanding tariff reductions. but this cannot be the purpose of the negotiations, which is why i voted against this report. at the same time, we must prevent the threat of lifting the ban on the import of genetically modified material. the european union has the opportunity to present itself as a strong community on the international stage. finally, we also need a rapid solution to the problem of chinese tariffs on automotive parts and components. otherwise, the last car manufacturers will probably leave europe for china.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs and the authors of the opinions, and also for your agreement to hold a joint debate on this subject today. this joint debate allows us to see all the aspects which we have to discuss today under the heading of better regulation or better lawmaking. i have to admit, this debate is becoming increasingly confusing to me. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i sometimes also suspect that this debate on better regulation is meant to distract us from our real responsibilities as legislators and to serve as a pretext for the community legislature not to act or for better regulation to become deregulation. the situation is now so confused that there is a temptation to call for a process of better regulation of the better regulation process or an impact assessment of the impact assessment. i am grateful to the rapporteurs for having - but within all this fog - identified some very concrete measures. this is particularly true of mrs frassoni's report and the concrete proposals for improved control of the implementation of community law, faster infringement procedures and greater transparency for the citizen who complains. it is not possible for citizens to lodge a complaint, for the commission to initiate infringement proceedings, and then suddenly to stop the proceedings without the citizens being informed of the reasons for the suspension. this often deteriorates their legal position in pending national proceedings. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome in particular the proposals drawn up by mr doorn, particularly on impact assessment. we share his view that acts of comitology should also be subject to impact assessment. we also share the idea that the impact assessment should be subject to an independent review, which should be independent of the directorate-general responsible, but not necessarily outside the commission. the commission has its political responsibility. i would ask you to take the matter to the council. the point on which we disagree with mr doorn is the question of the obligation to carry out an impact assessment of amendments in parliament and in the council. i think that we as legislators should not be here to put ourselves in chains and disempower ourselves. a good impact assessment by the commission will also allow the impact of changes to be assessed. there is also the instrument of voluntary application of impact assessment, which, as we have heard, is already being used by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. this is something we should also be discussing in other committees. the same is true for better legislation as for all the other good intentions and beautiful things in life: there is no good unless you do it and not just talk about it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the eu countries such as france, germany, spain and italy, a genuine labour market for trainees has been established. more and more regular workers are being replaced by low-paid or unpaid interns, or, for example, in germany, by state-funded 1-euro jobs for which no taxes or social security contributions are paid. how aware is the commission of this problem?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. is not the example you have just mentioned, commissioner, a typical example of the fact that the union should rather try to see disaster aid as an independent fact and to provide funds quickly and swiftly, as was the case with the floods, rather than trying to make sure that something goes on within the framework of traditional policy - in fisheries policy, in transport policy or elsewhere - with exceptions? experience has shown that this takes far too long and does not work.
- i'm not sure. the commission has put forward a very demanding financial framework. the council cut it down massively at its december meeting. the negotiations are currently taking place in the trilogue. what i do not understand is the role of the commission. if you are making such an ambitious proposal, why is there no more talk from the commission and why is there no more fighting spirit from parliament to get the budgetary resources we need to implement these programmes? this is particularly true of rural development, not only in the outermost regions but in rural areas as a whole, where massive financial transfers are needed to reach the required level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you have already mentioned one of the problems. we are discussing how seriously new states are taking their commitments. but we are not really discussing how a country in particular, which has met the criteria for quite some time but does not seem to have the desire to join the eurozone, will shape its future, namely sweden. the question is whether the swedish example may not be a bad example for other, now new member states. you have mentioned a new member state which has not yet announced a date. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr takkula, for his commitment, which directly affects the very heart of the european union. it is a matter of the heart that this europe should become its citizens. this is the basic idea behind this programme. the commission is proposing to increase the number of active european citizens. it is a question of better integration of citizens, because most of them refuse to accept europe, and know far too little about european ideals, values and objectives. the european union is a stranger to most of its citizens, it is not their home. the european integration policy is failing. europe is too complex, too complex, too opaque, too cold for many. the rapporteur's approach to stimulating interest in europe wherever citizens are passionate about it, such as sports clubs, cultural initiatives and leisure activities, is therefore very practical. i would like to make a plea here today for the promotion of more eurovision events on television. one song contest a year is not enough to bring the diversity of this continent closer to citizens in a sustainable way. why is there no european film competition, no eurovision dance competition, no 'europe seeks the superstar', no european saturday night shows in which the individual nation states compete against each other in a playful way? only in this way can we succeed in making citizens who are not politically interested interested in their europe and perhaps also in inspiring them to do so. there is currently active contact with the representatives of the european television broadcasters concerning the new television directive. we also call for and encourage greater involvement of europe in national television entertainment programmes!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 'citizens for europe' means to interest citizens in europe, to inform them about europe, to involve them in decisions, to offer them communication opportunities and, ultimately, to inspire them about europe. we are unfortunately moving further and further away from the latter. but i am convinced that this programme can do a great deal to reduce scepticism about the eu. a key point - as mrs pack has just said - is the town twinning, which promotes mutual knowledge and understanding through specific, but also structured, multiannual agreements. this is a very low-cost communications project. but unfortunately it is not recognised as such, because if you invested more in this project, you could save yourself a lot of pamphlets. citizens' projects aim to bring together interested people to discuss european issues, thus reaching a wide audience. associations and organisations can be when integrated into networks an effective tool to reach citizens, to strengthen social cohesion and to avoid exclusion or discrimination between the most diverse groups of the population an important element in active citizenship and european dialogue. the 'active european memory' action has been included in this programme for the first time because we in the committee feel that european history needs to be discussed with a wide public. the debate also shows - and this gives us the right - that this important issue should not be treated as a minor contribution - practically as a side effect of this programme - but requires a programme of its own to shed light on all forms of dictatorship and its victims and to make young people and future generations aware of the atrocities of past regimes and to work to ensure that our democracies become and remain strong enough to make such inhuman regimes impossible.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. as you have already mentioned, it was necessary for us to introduce some innovations into a convention which is 20 years old. there was already a new decision submitted in 1999. but they had forgotten that in a few years we will have 10 new member states - and perhaps even more - and so the point was to take account of these new member states. so we have a partnership system now. the proposal put to us at that time was not satisfactory. we had submitted a new proposal in 2004, but cut it short in haste because we did not want to block the process for the cities in 2009 and 2010, and therefore accepted the shortcomings. but you kept your promise and actually presented us with a new draft six months later. our focus is on redefining the role of the jury. we've had the problems in the past, and the point is that we have a better jury in the future. we have now made them more democratic in the new draft, that is to say, in the selection panel, in the pre-selection, the member states and the candidate countries are represented and can thus make their contributions. it is not only those in brussels who are involved in the decision-making. this is very important. in the second part of the phase, there is a monitoring and supervisory jury which critically monitors this process, but does not only identify shortcomings, but acts as a support. this is very important because cities often feel left alone in their preparations and do not know exactly how they have to deal with all these rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i would like to ask you to take the opportunity to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. i would stress the point of competition, but at the same time i would also like to point out that there are certainly smaller countries which are not in a position to hold large-scale competitions. there is also the possibility of a single candidate city, but it must meet all the challenges and requirements to be able to claim the title of cultural capital. the european dimension is an essential criterion and a point of discussion. the cities are supposed to create european added value, and the question is: what is european added value? how does it present itself in the cities? how can we explain to cities exactly what they are supposed to do? you haven't been able to define it very well here. i can understand that because it's very difficult. they have promised us to offer the best practice models on an internet portal. this internet portal is very important to give instructions, to have a guide, to be able to exchange queries and experiences, which is very important for the candidate cities. i would ask you to ensure that when this project comes into force we have the so-called guides and the internet portal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new financial perspective will probably also reduce the amount foreseen for the cultural capitals, which we regret very much. if i take the city of linz, for example, which now has an investment volume of 60 million euros and receives just 0.86% from the eu, i wonder why the conditions are so high. now, of course, you can say that it's an image thing, it helps the region, it helps the city, you invest in the future, also in sustainability, which is also an important point. as for the financial aspect, it is gratifying to note that this prize is now paid three months in advance. and this is going to help cities, because up until now, the big problem has been that you've always had to worry about your money after everything is done. i hope and wish that this will really be implemented in this way and that we will then move towards a very democratic future for the european capitals of culture. i hope that the sustainability, the good reputation and the good impulses for the arts, for the culture of europe, will be reflected here in this report and then in the activities and in the implementation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs avril doyle. the commission's statement showed the fervour with which it has fought for this matter in committee and in plenary, which is of particular importance for austria and denmark, because we are the two member states with the strictest regulations in this area. we have also shown above all that stricter regulations can be introduced without causing economic damage. i have to ask the commission why it is trying to pull the plug on european unity again with its statement. environmental policy and citizens' satisfaction are one and the same, and we are one in europe. i am therefore very surprised at the commission's behaviour, since we have concluded a successful conciliation procedure between the council and parliament. the joint text of the european parliament and the council, approved by the conciliation committee on 31 january 2006, provides that member states may maintain national measures stricter than those laid down in the regulation until the end of 2012. the additional paragraph 3 in article 9 allows member states, and in particular austria and denmark, to maintain their existing more far-reaching prohibitions on the placing on the market of fluorinated gases. without the introduction of such a safeguard clause, member states would have to lift their existing prohibitions going beyond those in annex ii to the regulation or have them approved by the ec. under article 95 (10) of the ec treaty, harmonisation measures such as the regulation on these fluorinated greenhouse gases may include a safeguard clause authorising member states to adopt temporary derogating measures. the authorization shall be granted in accordance with the procedure and in the form laid down in the regulation. nevertheless, in this declaration on article 9 (3), the commission does not refer to the procedure laid down in the regulation but reiterates the wording of article 95 (4), which provides that stricter national provisions which are also justified by the latest scientific evidence must be notified to the ec for approval. i think that is clearly going too far and is not in line with what the council and parliament have agreed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the debate before austria's accession to the european union, one of the main arguments of the opponents of accession was the danger of falling environmental standards. we are now faced with one of those sad examples. climate-damaging gases are being discussed right now, and the effects of climate change are being seen in the news right now: floods in germany and austria. climate action should be of the utmost importance today and right now. what do you think interested citizens will think of you today if you give the greenhouse gas polluters a free hand under the pretext of the single market? austria and denmark have acted consistently. the economies in these countries were flexible enough to adapt and deliver the products. now, are you going to protect the dinosaurs in the market that won't move from the ones that were fresh enough to regenerate? i appeal to you to correct this mistake. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. unfortunately, austria is not a model for all environmental policy measures, but we have stricter measures than those proposed in the harmonisation package on the issue of fluorinated greenhouse gases. in my view, there are two options for the european union: we are either harmonizing at a high, ambitious level or we are allowing member states to maintain their stricter and more ambitious objectives and measures here. austria and denmark - this has been mentioned very often, thankfully also by the rapporteur, who has always defended this position - have introduced general bans on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases. the experience of these countries shows that there are alternatives to these gases. the draft, approved by the conciliation committee at the end of january, allows member states to maintain stricter national measures until 2012. this step is possible under article 95 (10) of the treaty, the so-called safeguard clause allowing for the temporary maintenance of more stringent measures. the european parliament and the council have agreed on such a safeguard clause. this will ensure that, at least temporarily, austria and denmark can maintain their stricter rules. this also means that the scientific evidence referred to in article 95 (4) does not have to be provided. i am glad that mr bonde has more recent information, that there is a better explanation from the european commission. the explanation we have received from the commissioner at the beginning of this debate is not satisfactory. this was also emphasized in many of the contributions. i also ask the commission to accept the position of parliament and the council and to give the member states the necessary leeway.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we all feel it: these are good days for the european union! the services directive and the financial perspective are on target, the first half of the presidency is a success, and smes, youth, research, ten projects and more are among the winners. let us remember: a year ago, the summit failed, blame-sharing dominated the debate, everyone defined the eu in crisis. six months ago the summit was cancelled, the eu seemed paralysed, the results were poor, the outcome of the december summit was rejected by parliament by a large majority. what do we have today? a parliament that has emerged as a driving force, three institutions that have not thrown the gun into the air, and a council that is again capable of negotiating, of being results-oriented and of being able to work. we have put the eu back on track together. we all feel it: we cannot separate this success - and i do not want it - from the presidency of the council and from president wolfgang schüssel. his experience, his professionalism, his style of work, his action rather than his big speeches, brought us all together and made today's report possible. we are grateful for this and proud of it as austrians. the financial perspective has raised a total of eur 7.9 billion. together with the outcome of the summit, with the services directive, we have the strongest growth and employment programme in the eu for years. we must continue to work to ensure that the goals we set ourselves are also achieved through action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll try to stick to the facts. the fact is that there has certainly been some progress in the field of energy policy, especially as regards the last council. but, mr president-in-office, the point now is implementation. i would like to see a lot more thought put into this in terms of implementation, in terms of infrastructure. poul rasmussen and his initiative have already been mentioned. we adopted the directives on the transeuropean energy networks on monday. the problem now is to find the funding. we have too little in the european budget for this, so there must be national budgets to contribute theirs. you said we're all in the same boat, we all have to row. i don't see everyone rowing yet, but i hope it's coming. as regards the external policy component, i would now like to address this to the commission. we have been calling for this since the beginning, since the commission took office. it is late, but it is coming, and i hope that we will get some more statements this spring. our nuclear energy policy - mr president-in-office, you are right - is a national matter. i am of course in favour of the austrian line, but the question of security, including proliferation, will play a major role in the context of the strengthening of nuclear energy, and i would like to see more activities on this. science and research: if i look at the list that's in the ratings, it's actually a sad list. there are two countries, sweden and finland, which are far ahead of us in getting to 3%. in austria too, we are unfortunately not yet at the point where we can really reach the 3%. again, everyone should be rowing, and those with more income and economic power should be rowing more, in order to reach the 3% we are aiming for. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this is an essential element of social europe if we succeed in doing so and if you succeed in doing so in the council. this is crucial. you mentioned the employers. you have not mentioned employers in the public sector - that is also very important - but above all the workers' representations, which have contributed a great deal to a social europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group would be very much in favour of this, so that we can clarify things by tomorrow. if it wasn't cleared up, we'd have to reschedule. but we should at least take advantage of the time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the roure report because it is a very positive security initiative. for the first time, cooperation between liaison officers from the member states on mission in third countries is institutionalized and regulated in concrete terms. for the first time, cooperation between liaison officers and europol liaison officers and coordination by europol liaison officers in third countries will also be ensured. in addition, if member states are potentially threatened by states in which they do not have liaison officers, they will benefit from early information provided by liaison officers from other member states. this institutionalised cooperation between liaison officers will help to increase security in the european union's environment and neighbourhood. this is in the interests of the citizens and of security within the european union.
in writing. the award of the title of 'european capital of culture' is intended to and can significantly enhance the image of a city. but european capitals of culture should not be primarily about celebrating the city and short-term marketing of local culture. newcastle and bilbao show that culture can also be sustainable. in times of financial desolation, the follow-up costs of newly created prestige objects are often forgotten. the internet portal already envisaged as a means of exchanging experience and providing assistance could help to avoid problems in the organisation and implementation of the year of culture in advance. this would be much more likely to prevent applicants from spending unnecessarily millions of dollars on lavish advertising strategies without ultimately winning the contract, or even, as in the case of the former cultural capital weimar, being forced to close the city museum due to large financial losses. in 2009, linz will once again be the austrian capital of culture. the preparations are already under way and it remains to be seen whether the necessary foresight has been shown.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am submitting this explanation of vote on behalf of the epp delegation. we voted against the report because it calls for the abolition of the transitional periods for the free movement of workers. we voted against it because we expect the treaty of accession, which all the new member states have signed, to be maintained with its transitional provisions to protect the austrian labour market. this is for good reason, because statistics show that the number of workers from the new member states has already doubled in the last two years. the etuc delegation opposes the report because only austria can and will decide in future how long the contractually guaranteed access restrictions - which can be up to seven years - will be maintained in the interests of austrian workers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the accession of greece and portugal also provided for transitional provisions to adapt labour markets to the new circumstances. it is not a means of labelling the new member states as second-class states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the following criteria: in view of the high unemployment rates, particularly in austria and germany, and the increasing pressure on the low-wage sector, immediate free movement of workers would be extremely irresponsible. the commission has already started to deal with a large number of so-called selfemployed people, some of whom are evading social and taxation charges. as long as companies migrate to the low-tax countries and try to escape from collective agreements, as long as the market has not adapted to the new conditions or as long as appropriate accompanying measures are not put in place, complete freedom of movement for workers cannot be justified. that is why i voted against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased with the comments made by the high commissioner and the commissioner. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i am also very pleased that the need for a negotiated solution has been underlined. yes, we have to negotiate! but that means that hamas and israel must be prepared to negotiate. when i think of gaza, israel has not negotiated. of course, we must also investigate the reasons why hamas was elected. for years another leadership, the fatah leadership, has been undermined, on the one hand by its own fault - we are thinking of corruption and other cases - but also by israel's refusal to accept it as a negotiating partner. and even when arafat was no longer alive and abbas was their president - and that was during the withdrawal from gaza - that was not accepted. so it takes two people and the willingness of both sides to negotiate. secondly, it is clear that israel's right to exist must be recognized, and that it must be done in peaceful situations and within reasonable limits. but israel must also at least accept in principle that what the un has decided on the borders is right. the fact that there will be further corrections is clear. we all know that if we're realistic. but if this is not recognised even in principle, there will be difficulties. thirdly, please let us do everything we can to ensure that the situation in gaza is also improved economically, so that gaza can survive. the withdrawal of troops alone is not a guarantee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as much as we are happy about kadima and the reasonable people in kadima, as far as east jerusalem is concerned, there is still no return of that reason that recognizes that jerusalem is the capital of israel, but also recognizes that there are palestinian rights in east jerusalem. this should remain a clear policy of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the debate today is the result of a very serious request from the committee on transport and tourism on how to proceed with the financing of future and current security measures in the sense of security. that is what my statement is about. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. so this is now being discussed, and above all, it is not just the financing of the additional measures in individual countries that require more security at airports that is being discussed, but also - and this is very important - the overall system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we want to do this - we can all agree on this - on the basis of a good foundation. but it's not just air traffic. the tragic events in madrid have made us think that other modes of transport are also facing the same challenge. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. so my question is, when is the study coming out? is this aspect included and can we expect to plan a good next course of action on the basis of this study?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe can only be communicated to people in a positive way if we can demonstrate, by giving as many specific examples as possible, that european action brings concrete added value to people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road transport is not compromised. the half-time record, which has been mentioned several times, shows this. but it also shows that we have a lot, a lot of work to do. in this context, it is important to make a renewed effort. it will also be particularly important that all projects and measures are well organised. the policy mix we are talking about sounds reasonable, but it will also cost money. in this context, we must ensure that european money is used rationally, efficiently and economically. it is also important that these scarce european funds should end up in the hands of the people and not go to waste. i am not even thinking of embezzlement, fraud and the like, but i am thinking of the fact that in air transport in particular most european airports and airport operators make a lot of money. if we now, four years after we agreed on public co-financing in the interinstitutional agreement, liquidate funds - which will take some time - then i am almost certain that these funds will not end up in the hands of the people, but that we will receive a new fee, which will then probably be offset by the reimbursement of the other fees. so if we go down this road and use public money, we should make sure that the people and the passengers in air transport actually and concretely get some of it.
madam president, mr vice-chancellor, mr vice-president of the commission, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm a little confused right now. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the matter. i am listening to the vice-chancellor and not a word is said about road safety! i don't think that's the way to handle this house. at least part of your speech should have dealt with this subject. it is not the commission's intention to do so. it is incomprehensible to me why this has not happened, because i do not believe that 9/11 has gone unnoticed by you. the only reason may be that the council has no interest in this subject. that would be the wrong approach. i am of course in agreement with the views of my colleagues that counter-terrorism is clearly a matter for the state and that clear conditions must be created in this respect. it is important to note that in some countries the taxpayers pay for this, in others the airlines, in third countries the airports and the air passengers. i therefore ask that the commission should take action at last, and relatively soon, so that we can deal with this matter in concrete terms and, as legislators, ensure that there is clarity and no distortion of competition in this area.
mr secretary of state, i share your belief in the rule of law. but you will remember the unpleasant wiretap incident in the justus lipsius building, where several delegation offices were tapped, including the current presidency of the council. when they found out where this wiretap was coming from, it was a bust. has there been a final report on this matter, and what measures have been taken to make this building wiretap-proof?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all know - we are all frequent flyers - the situation at airports, where complaints are sometimes only forwarded to the wastepaper basket, but consumers often face the problem of how to win. would it be possible to set up an arbitration body or an ombudsman here who could deal with such complaints properly?
mr president-in-office, i would like to point out, as mr rübig has done, something that happens to each of us almost every day. at a major european airport, in frankfurt, a leaflet explaining the regulation of the council and the european parliament is given to you on request. if you carefully read this text, which totals about 10 or 15 pages of three-quarters printed din a4, you will see that you have no rights. is the council prepared and willing to approach the commission together with parliament and draw its attention to the fact that it is the commission's responsibility to ensure that these regulations are complied with?
minister! the european highway is of particular interest to us all because it runs right through strasbourg, the capital of europe. do you think that the coordinator appointed will be able to report to the transport council at regular intervals on the progress made in coordination?
i'm not going to let you do this. i am very grateful that you first mentioned the financial perspective. we have agreed this evening to 500 million more direct funds for the ten projects and 500 million more for the eib loan facility. that's why you ended up with 7.3 billion euros. my question to you concerns one of the central projects for europe and for austria, the brenner base tunnel. can you tell us how you see the progress of this ten project, since it is such a key project for the european union?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the day after tomorrow, 7 april, is world health day, which this year is dedicated to health professionals. this is a good opportunity to demand fair and good working conditions for these skilled workers and to draw attention to the existing shortage of skilled workers. when we speak of decent and good working conditions, this is of course not just for the developing countries, which we are particularly focusing on, but it will be particularly in the forthcoming debate on the working time directive - it has already been mentioned today - that we will see how seriously europe and this parliament take decent working conditions for people in this sector and the importance attached to good quality public and health services. the shortage of healthcare professionals is a global phenomenon and has many causes. this is what the european commission is saying and what we are saying in the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow. it has also been discussed in great detail how developing countries, and here the african countries in particular, suffer the most from the brain drain, the recruitment measures of the rich countries. i think that an important point for the shortage of skilled workers has been overlooked. in many countries, public spending is being cut back, and important jobs in health and social services are being lost, not being created or filled. the lean, almost anorexic state is preached by many, without mentioning the impact on the functioning of the health system. i hope that we will adopt amendment no 6 by a majority tomorrow, so that we can have a comprehensive analysis of the shortage of health professionals in the various countries of the world. healthcare in developing countries has also suffered as macroeconomic reforms such as structural adjustment programmes have led to drastic cuts in social spending. the international financial institutions, which have repeatedly focused on the privatization of the public sector in developing countries, for example, need to be re-thinked. amendment no 7 also shows a major reason for the lack of skilled workers and for insufficient expenditure in the health sector in developing countries, particularly in african countries. i do not wish to minimize the reasons mentioned, such as corruption or lack of political will, but it is also a fact that the external debt of these countries considerably reduces their ability to spend enough on social and health care. three of the eight mdgs are related to health: reducing child mortality, improving maternal health and combating hiv/aids. the international community, including the european union, must ensure that adequate financial resources are available to combat hiv/aids. we know that only a fraction of the financial commitments made at the world population conference in cairo have actually been fulfilled. we know that the scale of the hiv/aids pandemic is far beyond what was previously thought. it is important that we provide sufficient funds for the promotion of reproductive health, which is why i am calling for a majority to support amendment no 5. mrs hall has also pointed out how investments in some african countries are being destroyed as a result of this hiv/aids pandemic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr thierry cornillet, because his report gives a very good overview of the positive work done by this joint parliamentary assembly. i would like to mention again the women's forum, which is held at each joint assembly, as i have already mentioned several times, because the profound discussion on the specific political and economic problems of women in the acp countries is very useful, not only for the women's forum itself but also for the subsequent discussions in the plenary of this joint parliamentary assembly. i would just like to recall the exciting debate on genital mutilation in bamako, mali, a country where the practice is not yet prohibited by law. we were able to get this hour-long discussion broadcast on the radio. let me say a few words about the work of the committees. the committee's work has substantially improved the quality of the work of the acp-eu assembly. there are fewer amendments tabled in plenary. the greater trust between european and acp members of parliament means that we are increasingly reaching compromises. but i would also like to reiterate - and this has also been said - that it is important to think about when we are going to set up the committees that meet in europe, in brussels. it is sometimes a real shame when we have hours of voting in our other committees and cannot take part in the exciting and important discussions in the acp-eu committees. sometimes this is taken as disinterest, which is not the case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question of aid effectiveness and the fight against corruption is a common thread running through many discussions, but especially through our discussions since last night. the report by max van den berg on the effectiveness of aid and the fight against corruption in developing countries is on the agenda today. i too would like to join in congratulating and thanking max van den berg. the report and the words he himself used in its introduction show very well that corruption must be fought and must no longer be a hindrance to development. at a time when we need to realize that we need a significant increase in development cooperation spending, it is necessary to talk seriously about fighting corruption so that corruption can no longer function as a light excuse. corruption is a global and complex phenomenon. the causes of corruption in developing countries are not confined to those countries. the oecd convention on the prevention of corruption in foreign affairs is an important instrument for combating the link between corruption in our countries and corruption in developing countries. i believe that we must do everything possible on the part of the european union to ensure that the member states, latvia, lithuania and malta, ratify this convention as soon as possible. i would like to say a few words about direct budgetary aid. the trend in the european union is towards a shift from projects to direct budgetary support. that is understandable in principle. but there are many doubts, which have been raised here. there are doubts whether we have the capacity and the manpower to ensure the full control that will be needed.
in writing. i would like to support this proposal by my explanation of vote, because i see in it an opportunity to improve the management of this area considerably. the current situation results in an enormous workload for the consulates of the member states in switzerland and liechtenstein and a cost burden for third-country nationals. this unsatisfactory situation must be changed. the issuing of residence permits is subject to strict checks and inspections by switzerland and liechtenstein, and great attention is paid to security. i would also like to note that in any case both switzerland and liechtenstein have the same high quality safety standards as the other eu member states. it is important to me that my explanation of vote should support switzerland and, in particular, those in switzerland who are seeking to join the european union. i would very much welcome switzerland's accession to the eu, as switzerland is a guarantor of high standards and is distinguished, among other things, by an exemplary transport policy, which some member states should follow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a statement of vote on behalf of the epp delegation on the doyle report. the austrian delegation's agreement was expressly made subject to the condition mentioned by the rapporteur, mrs doyle, and to the statement made by commissioner kyprianou. we strongly condemn the unilateral statement by the european commission following the compromise reached between the council and parliament and, in the light of the statements made today, we expect the infringement proceedings against denmark and austria to be terminated in the light of the new legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in the context of the doyle report, it is very important for all of us that the kyoto targets are achieved.
in writing. on behalf of the spö delegation, i would like to state the following as the responsible member of the environment committee: austria and denmark have introduced general bans on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases. this legislation must ensure that stricter rules can be maintained. the draft conciliation committee provides that member states may maintain more stringent national measures until the end of 2012. this step is possible under article 95 (10) of the treaty and ensures that austria and denmark can temporarily maintain their more stringent regulations. this means that the scientific evidence referred to in article 94 (4) does not have to be provided. any restrictive interpretation of the safeguard clause must be rejected, since the member states' scope for action must in no case be restricted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are shocked by the news of the plight of refugees and the stories of victims of ruthless smuggling gangs. many people have nothing to lose but their lives, and they often lose that too on the way to the supposedly clever country of europe. when they reach their destination, they are often forced to work in inhumane conditions - such as prostitution - to pay off their debt to the smugglers. the only way to break this vicious circle is through a restrictive common immigration policy. we also need refugee camps outside europe, of course, because our camps in europe are often overcrowded and there are serious conflicts between the inmates of different cultures. that is why, and to give refugees the illusion that they can enter the union illegally, i voted against this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the war in the western part of sudan, in darfur, has been going on since 2003. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. sudan is rwanda in slow motion, say observers, sudan is rwanda in slow motion. the european union and the united states have called for the african union mission to be transferred to un forces, as the 7,000 african union troops are completely overstretched. the un special envoy for sudan, jan pronk, has drawn a bitter balance sheet and speaks of the failure of the un peace efforts in darfur. you've done too little too late. sudan is being touched by some countries with velvet gloves. even though they are always different countries, the reason is almost always the same: natural resources and oil. we urge the united nations security council to convene a meeting to address the violence in darfur and to assume its responsibility for the protection of civilians.
the commission has already done so. once again we are faced with the self-inflicted dilemma of possibly having to change an intended date of accession without wanting to offend the country or countries concerned. however, more time for the reform processes already under way would be in the interest of both the union and the candidate countries. the past has shown that it can have devastating consequences to admit a country to a club for political or alleged political reasons, for which it may not be ready yet. the citizens always have to pay a heavy price if the political nomenclature wants to go in a direction for which the time is not yet ripe. we should bear this in mind when it comes to enlargement to include romania and bulgaria, which are of course part of the european family of nations and must also become members of the union. not only is it doubtful whether the economies of romania and bulgaria can cope with eu accession at the moment, but the financing of up to €24 billion needed for the first three years is also completely unclear. we may have no choice but to postpone this enlargement for perhaps a year, or at least for a certain period. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the implementation of the budget are used to the full.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the commission very warmly for the clear line it has consistently taken and the pressure it has exerted, together with this parliament. it is only through this pressure that we have succeeded in bringing about substantial changes in romania and bulgaria. i think that after my visit to both countries, both governments and parliaments have made substantial progress in this area, and that is also thanks to this pressure. i do not think it is a bad thing - it is human - to think about the areas where we can exert some monitoring and some pressure, even after a decision, which will hopefully be taken in 2007. we have been repeatedly advised by ngos in both countries to combine a decision for 2007 where necessary with ongoing monitoring processes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to add one more consideration, commissioner. you have always been a little more critical of bulgaria, and you have been more critical lately. the negative assessment of romania may have led to increased pressure in the past. i would like to point out, however, that - as we discussed this yesterday with the romanian minister of justice - the number of members whose immunity is being waived or who are being charged is not the only evidence of whether a country is better or worse. i think it is a matter of having substantive proceedings, and i think that bulgaria, like romania, is also striving to prosecute and fight corruption in substance. and we've seen in various peer reviews that there are different judgments about which reform is the right reform. i agree with you; we must ensure that the independence of the judiciary is guaranteed in both countries, and yet the judicial authorities insist that swift proceedings can be carried out. i fully agree with what mr schulz said: 'we want to be able to take both countries in 2007, that would be the greatest success for all of us.'
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that the question is not whether romania and bulgaria can become members of the european union. that is the decision, and we look forward to welcoming these countries. but it is a question of the application of the treaty and the question of whether the postponement clause can be used, and it is a question of the credibility of enlargement policy and, last but not least, of the credibility of the european union. does the european union adhere to its own rules and conditions? you, commissioner, have stressed that justice and home affairs are at the heart of the evaluation and have told the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that there is a lot of progress but also serious shortcomings. they mentioned that the independence of the judiciary was not guaranteed, they linked this to bulgaria, they said that although first steps had been taken in the fight against corruption, judgments were missing, that the measures to combat organised crime were not going far enough and that human trafficking was a problem. if all these problems can be solved, commissioner, then i am in favour of the inclusion of both countries in 2007. but if the commission report, which will be presented to us after careful consideration, confirms that there are deficits which cannot be corrected, then we should consider the possibility of giving these countries a little more time to actually meet the conditions for accession. if the possibilities of the accession treaty, i.e. the application of the postponement clause, are not applied despite serious shortcomings in the area of justice and home affairs, then i am convinced that this will send the wrong signal in the enlargement process and that the credibility of enlargement policy and of the union as a whole will be shaken. i therefore assume that you, commissioner, will be aware of your responsibility when you write the report and present the conclusions to parliament in may.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i think that the decision of the commission and the council is inevitable and i welcome it. i regret some of the remarks made in the last half hour, which i regard as extremely one-sided. this house and europe have always supported a palestinian state of their own. but we have reached a point where there is something to be clear: no democratic choice can legitimise terrorism, anti-semitism and racism. no democratic election can legitimise a constitution which calls for genocide, which is full of nazi slogans, jewish world conspiracies such as the elders of zion and similar nazi propaganda. we cannot make europe the basis for negotiations and financial contributions. here are the crimes - whatever you want to call them - the mistakes of not comparing the violence of israel with this very fundamental historical question that we have arrived at. i welcome that attitude. the resolution of this conflict has required and still requires much of israel. the palestinian state must not only be recognized by israel, but must be brought into existence and made viable by israel itself. it has to give up the illegally occupied territories, give up east jerusalem, end the death lists, give up the economic stranglehold, give back the territorial gains from the wall. i could go on and on. but one thing must never again be asked of israel: to negotiate its very existence, its very existence, against a government whose agenda is the destruction of the jews and israel, which immediately after the election says: we are committed to this goal, we are of course not stupid, we will pursue it in pragmatic steps, and we will of course not tell the west that we are doing this. but they want to do it! and here is where the line is drawn to speak that clear word, and i thank you for doing so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. oh, this is the time to think. almost 100 million people are watching this live right now, not here, but inside, where the world is, in front of the tv, watching barcelona against milan. it's 0-0 by the way. what about here? three hands i count and eleven hands one extra still asked that he may stay. you ask yourself, what is the political aspect of the debate? this is about substance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know - if we look closely - that none of us with a clear conscience, if we still have one, can really give a discharge here. we know exactly how one hand washes the other. we know that we have allowed this europe, this union, to be overrun by a kind of mafia system, where one does exactly what the other logically does. what is so bad about the city of strasbourg? they are doing exactly what many of my colleagues have done here: they are making a big mess. this is dangerous, what's going on. this is dangerous! we are heading towards the end of democracy and prosperity for broad sections of the population in europe 61 years after the peace agreement, because we are simply letting it go, because mr kallas, the commissioner for fraud, is not bringing about the european transparency initiative that he spoke about, because his hands are constantly tied, because there is no longer any political leadership. please, tomorrow, think of the conscience you had when you entered politics. i would ask you to reject all the so-called discharge reports. let us make a fresh start, that is the only thing that can help europe in this situation!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. firstly, it is a shame that we are discussing the discharge for 2004 at this time. this can't happen again. let's get serious about this. secondly, let us, as the committee on budgetary control, - even though some people already know what is at stake before we have even checked - first check the question of strasbourg and then come to a conclusion. thirdly, and precisely because mrs gräßle is applauding so nicely, we should take note in the declaration of assurance of what mr wynn said earlier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also be very grateful for commissioner kallas' reply. and, mr wynn, what do we do if the council does not agree? we shall then have to abandon the interinstitutional agreement, yes or no? how important is it for us to get that signature? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have the feeling that there are people in luxembourg who feel that they are under pressure and that we must in future issue a positive das. no, we must first change the way we manage our funds, and then the court of auditors can come to a different conclusion! this order must be respected and it is worth keeping in mind in a debate on discharge in 2004.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the second and third pillars of pension provision become more important, the number of clients of asset managers and their product range will automatically grow. the klinz report gives us an excellent listing, a good overview of the many different types of companies and products that are being presented and sold by asset managers and their distribution companies to an ever wider public. however, in the absence of appropriate rules on supervision and transparency, unfair practices are naturally encouraged. i also rejected hedge funds as the standard investment form for investment funds as long as there are no risk-reduction rules agreed between all european supervisors. funds of funds and venture capital funds should be allowed in my view because of their definitive risk dispersion under eu coordinated supervisory risk mitigation. the plans for an eu-wide passport for asset management companies and the eu passport for investment firms will lead to more competition for cross-border business. this is of course an increasingly important role for consumer and investor protection in asset management. i therefore regret that my amendments on operational risks, which would have made the corporate governance arrangements mandatory for certain management and distribution companies in the legal form of limited liability companies, were not adopted. the demand for good consumer protection regimes at national level to prevent the distance selling of financial services from being diverted into unfair competition and misleading advertising was also rejected. that's a shame too! last but not least, my demand for mandatory implementation of pre-contractual information obligations and the requests for investor protection were reduced to minimum compromises. too bad, a little more would have been better! i would like to draw attention to one more point, mr klinz. i know you are much more inclined to dialogue. you have so apodictically rejected the socialist motion which dealt with the question of comitology. in the long term, this is a question we should be tackling more vigorously and now. maybe we should talk about it a little bit more. we have until tomorrow. but it is a pity because the eu, as the world's largest single regulator of financial instruments, could play a leading role or at least ensure a level playing field in the eea - so a little more would have been better here. it is not just about the people we are supposed to be making policy for, it is also about others. let us be flexible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. "think global, act local" is the saying, and we've learned that the internet, ebay, visa card payments, dhl, have made global business possible. anyone who is interested can get on these platforms today, and so it's very good if you think about how you can get into the business, how you can give support here. the first stage is the one of great risk, and if the state participates in taxes later on when a company makes a profit, it can also participate in the risk before, when something is founded. the transfer of ownership from the old to the young generation is even more important. these are particularly sensitive stages, and here we should not tax, but rather give support so that the young entrepreneur can be innovative, so that he can modernise and renew the business. it is therefore important that in future the infrastructure for training and continuing training should also be brought together in clusters and that those interested should be given the opportunity to write successful black numbers at the end of the year.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what are we talking about today? we're talking about an emergency call system that activates itself in the event of an accident or is triggered manually. we are also talking about studies which show that in the event of an accident there are enormous numbers of survivors, if such a system is in place and if the necessary infrastructure is also in place in the member states, such as emergency call centres and uniform numbers. i think that these figures - i have to be frank and honest with you - are grossly overstated. in the debate on road safety, it seems to be obvious to a number of representatives who deal with this subject, namely mr vatanen, that only the cost and the installation of electronics are relevant. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the safety of road transport, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve safety at the roadside. this means that security is obviously understood more in a technological context, and i think that is too narrow. i am also concerned about reducing the rescue time after an accident. but i am more concerned with preventing accidents. and when it comes to accident prevention, measures to tackle the problem of alcohol-impaired drivers and to maintain speed limits are much more effective - because they affect the majority of accidents - than the imposition of electronic safety systems alone. the cost of these systems was discussed. the cost of this installation is currently estimated at eur 150 to 300 and there is maybe hope that it will maybe become cheaper. ladies and gentlemen, do you really think if there's a compulsion from the insurance companies or the states to put in a thing like this, it'll be cheaper? there is no incentive for the economy to become cheaper here. if you have at the same time strongly criticised the common driving licence for europe for its much lower cost and have fought against it in a number of countries, it is incomprehensible to me that on this point the cost should not play any role at all. one is about privacy and surveillance, which is increasingly taking over all areas of our lives. i think that such measures are useful in certain areas, but i think it is completely wrong to treat the whole thing as a mere chance to save, so to speak, half of all the victims of accidents. i don't believe these studies. if at the same time all other measures that prevent accidents and do not reduce rescue time are rejected, then the strategy for accident prevention in the committee on transport is not credible to me because it is limited to cost-intensive measures.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. where technology can be used to make our lives easier, more comfortable and safer, we should pursue these opportunities and ensure that as many of us as possible benefit from them. the proposed system for the introduction of ecall falls into this category. ecall can make our lives safer and may also help save lives. let us therefore take advantage of the possibilities of this new technology. three brief remarks on issues that have already been partly addressed: data protection and respect for privacy. i think gary titley was right when he said that this system can and should only be triggered when and where it's appropriate, not for privacy surveillance. we should not take this assurance for granted, but we should make sure that it will actually come true. on the question of financing, we are increasingly - and quite rightly - talking about the principle of 'the user pays' in the transport system. i have heard a lot about this today, and there is a great desire that others should pay for something which should be of immediate benefit to those affected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in our networked world, there is of course no alternative to the constant acquisition of new knowledge and the mastery of several languages. of course, the english language is not excluded from the world of business and science. however, as the first and second language of some 125 million people, german is one of the most important languages in the world, and with over 90 million native speakers, it is also the most widely spoken language in the european union. by contrast, for example, only 23% of europeans now speak french, and only 11% of them speak it as a foreign language. the overall objective of multilingualism is therefore beyond doubt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu's internal language practice of favouring english and french is not based on any democratic foundation. the european union must not ignore old agreements and the german working language, especially in view of the importance of german which has grown with enlargement. unfortunately, the european parliament is still the only institution which not only makes its decisions publicly, but also makes them available to the citizens in their own language. of the official working languages, english, french and german are always the most abbreviated. the commission will, after all, translate the progress report on the applicant countries at the insistence of the german bundestag, and perhaps there is still hope in this connection for a greater use of german in the context of the finnish presidency of the council.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr mavrommatis, for his commitment. how well do young europeans know foreign languages? what languages are spoken most often? is multilingualism on the rise? this is something that a language indicator wants to explore in the future. however, for reasons of efficiency and lack of funds, this language indicator is intended to examine only five selected foreign languages, namely those which are said to be most widely taught in the union. in order to obtain a good qualification, 15-year-olds in all member states must now have a knowledge of the following languages: english, french, german, spanish or italian. apart from the fact that there are other statistics, for example the latest euro-barometer, which shows that russian is in fifth place, not italian, i think the consequences of this language policy are fatal. english, french, german, spanish and italian will be the languages that schools will offer more in the future, because no country wants to be the last to be judged on the indicator of language proficiency see pisa. already, many students are inclined to prefer to participate in exchange programmes in france, italy and spain rather than, for example, in prague, warsaw or budapest. is that what we want? should we not rethink and promote policies that encourage us to learn the languages of our neighbouring countries? not only for the sake of better communication, but also for economic reasons. an austrian has much better chances on the labour market if he speaks one of the eastern languages, whatever it is. but the wrong education policies have not yet promoted this in my home schools.the language indicator does not provide any incentive to change this policy quickly either, and it may be too late later. we live in a very fast world. it is not the number of people who speak a language across europe that matters, but the socioeconomic relations between the countries. i would even go one step further: if we think not only in european terms but globally, then it will be very good if our children and grandchildren are open to all the languages of the world. we live in a global village, and that's not going to change. in this village, those who can make themselves understood will have the power. a language indicator which does not anticipate these future needs and is sufficiently flexible is counterproductive. i therefore urge you all once again today to support the amendments tabled by the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we would have preferred to see a direct referral back to committee, but as this is not, as mr ferber has said, a negative decision on the substance of the discharge, we too will vote against it in order to allow for a broad consensus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the prets report: i think it is a given that cultural diversity must be promoted. but we have so far focused too much on promoting cultural diversity, especially among the muslim immigrant population, without ensuring that our own culture is recognized in the countries of the islamic world. it goes so far that their culture is trying to supplant ours even in their own country. not only is western culture being pressured by, for example, head covering requirements for teachers, but christian symbols and traditions are increasingly coming under fire from muslim immigrants. meanwhile, more and more minarets are being built in the context of a misunderstood tolerance and ideological multi-cultural attitude, and our language culture is also being undermined by school classes with foreigners in the class. these are serious developments which, in my view, have not been taken into account in the unesco convention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 132 in conjunction with rule 142 of the rules of procedure. the european parliament in strasbourg smells of corruption here. please do something. protect the dignity of our house! set the speaking times so that ... ((the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as an austrian, i would like to make a pragmatic proposal: it is obvious that the council is determined to catch the plane back to austria at 8 p.m. mr president, please inform the council that there is also a train connection between strasbourg and vienna. it is not a problem to be here to witness the sitting and to be in vienna in time for the next morning's sitting. you should fly less and maybe give up some luxuries!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to speak today about the human rights situation in romania and specifically about the misa yoga school and the visa for its founder gregorian bivolaru. on 21 october 2005, the supreme court of sweden decided not to extradite gregorian bivolaru, founder of the misa yoga school, to romania because he could not expect a fair trial in romania because of his conviction. in december of the same year, he was granted political asylum. the case against 39 people associated with the misa yoga school is still pending in romania. freedom of religion and an independent judiciary are fundamental foundations of the european union and a prerequisite for romania's accession in 2007. tomorrow the accessions of romania and bulgaria will be on the agenda. i think it is important that the human rights situation in the present member states and in future member states should continue to be followed very closely by this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was invited to a styrian animal welfare organisation, active animal welfare styria, a few days ago and was very impressed by their activities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think this is the right way to go, and i have agreed to present a petition on a subject which has always been very much on my mind, namely the transport of animals. as you all know, millions of animals are transported across europe. transport times are very long, the trucks are completely overcrowded and there is a lack of water, food and ventilation. in addition, the carers are often completely untrained, the controls are inadequate and the penalties are far too low. the current situation in this area is totally unacceptable. the total transport times of live cattle must be drastically reduced. i share the view of the animal welfare organisation and would like to call on the council, the commission and all of us to finally make some headway in this area.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for her very good report and, above all, for having taken the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights very seriously. we are in agreement that the wording of the treaty allows the commission to withdraw proposals until the council has adopted its common position. this is an unsatisfactory legal situation. the commission could thus withdraw its proposal after the first reading in the european parliament, which was a very laborious process - think of the services directive - and this would destroy much of the work of the european parliament in a stroke of the pen. i would therefore like to stress the principle of loyal cooperation, which should also be mentioned in this context. if the first reading has been a very laborious one, the commission should not withdraw its proposals. the commission should also be more sensitive when parliament, by a large majority, calls on it to withdraw its proposals. i just want to remind you of the controversy over the software patent directive: we have asked the commission on several occasions to withdraw its ill-fated and hardly worth mentioning proposal. it has not done so, but this proposal was rejected by more than 500 votes in this house anyway. i think - and you have said so yourself - that there were some inconsistencies in the package of withdrawn proposals that was presented. the legal committee was particularly interested in the statute for mutual societies and european association law. i am glad to see that you are willing to look at this matter again and i really do expect new proposals, because this 'package justification', which is supposedly about cutting red tape and overburdening, is certainly not applicable in this area. if we want a european law on associations, it is precisely to make it easier for non-governmental organisations in particular to organise themselves throughout europe. i would also like to point out something that has been overlooked by the commission: we too have recommended the withdrawal of certain legislative proposals, not only the software patent directive but also the mediation directive. i do not see why other proposals for legislation have been withdrawn but not this directive. the balance of the package is not entirely clear here either. but if you promise that this will change in the future through increased cooperation with parliament, we would be happy to take note of that.
the rapporteur. the commission is not we are discussing today a twin package of regulations, namely the report by adriana poli bortone on nutrition and health claims on food and my own report on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to food. the two proposals for regulations have always been discussed and dealt with in parallel, because there would have been no point in separating the two dossiers in time. after this house has taken very controversial positions on the question of whether and how health and nutrition claims should be regulated, there have always been problems of timing when the report on enrichment, on the addition of minerals and vitamins was on the agenda. i would like to thank all those involved, the shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the political groups, but also the european council and the commission, because the very good cooperation between the meetings has enabled us to achieve good communication and good compromises. the proposed regulation aims to harmonise the different national rules on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to foodstuffs. i would also like to point out today at second reading that this regulation only covers the voluntary addition of vitamins and minerals, so that national rules on the mandatory addition are not affected. one of the principles of my report is that the community should strive for a situation where manufacturers add vitamins and minerals for nutritional and health reasons. i am therefore glad that we have reached a compromise in this house - and also between the institutions - and that the approach to bioavailability is being supported. this means that all added vitamins and minerals must be able to be used by the body, otherwise consumers will be misled and, in extreme cases, human health will be adversely affected. we have also heard in the debate repeatedly that if we add too many vitamins or minerals, the human body will not be able to use them in their present form. so i think it's a good idea to take this bioavailability approach here. another step forward is that we have agreed to define other substances, because vitamins and minerals are listed in annex 1 and 2 to this regulation and are therefore defined. excessive intake of vitamins and minerals can have adverse effects on health and therefore safe maximum levels for the addition of these substances to foodstuffs need to be established. these maximum levels are already provided for in the directive on food supplements and have not yet been established. in the interests of consumer safety, it is therefore necessary to adopt a directive as a matter of urgency. the amendment of article 6 ensures that the commission will present proposals for safe maximum levels within two years. as a long-standing member of the committee on the environment and food safety, i am also pleased that the commission is announcing in a supplementary statement a long overdue revision of the nutrition facts directive.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. in ancient rome, when a noble man was condemned, he had the right to have someone else serve the sentence in his stead. it does seem a little like you're in that situation today. you don't deserve this. but the president of the commission - i hope you will see to it - will hear the judgment of this house on his role in the constitutional process. he plays a devastating role. it is fearless, unimaginative, contradictory and deeply counterproductive. perhaps he has applied for the post of gravedigger of the european constitution. he has every chance of getting that job. i know that the president of the commission is a master of misunderstanding. we've always misunderstood him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but interestingly, this master of misunderstanding is always understood across europe with the same message: no chance. for many years, nothing will happen. nice, is it? oh, that wasn't so bad! as he said: "the world can go on without a constitution". and then - the worst part - the citizens expect results anyway, not rhetoric. of course, i was misunderstood again, but the citizens understood it very well. the commission president has never, since the beginning of his mandate, been involved in any attempt to resolve this constitutional conflict. he has never been an advocate of this european constitution. for him, it is a glass bead game of political elites, an institutional navel-gazing of europe - a phrase tony blair has repeatedly used in his various speeches. commissioner, we're not getting anywhere. there is a resolution of parliament. we have not had the support of the commission from the beginning and there are fundamental misunderstandings. nice may be a step towards integration, commissioner. we know that there are "pussycats". there are ways of quiet, almost discreet integration. but do you really want to? without a bill of rights? without a full democratization of the union? without the ability to act? without the lead feet of unanimity in many areas? you want to do that without social rights? do you want to do that without a constitution which first creates the political space to better serve the interests of the people of europe? more legitimacy, more representation in decision-making, more transparency and openness to the citizens, more accountability to the citizens, more checks and balances, more parliamentary and judicial control! that's what the constitution says. it is not a matter of formulae, it is not mere rhetoric, as the president of the commission has repeatedly tried to suggest in this debate. they say he listens to people. i was surprised to see that the eurobarometer surveys of the french and dutch referendums clearly showed that even those who said no were more than two thirds in favour of improving the constitution and wanted a social europe as the aim of improvement. in other words, this conflict is about european democracy and the social dimension of europe as a response to globalisation. and what is the president of the commission doing? he listens to people and hears something completely different. it is becoming more and more the advocate of a europe of governments. the crux, the cause of the crisis, is the europe of governments. has he not heard the people revolting against the lack of democracy, the lack of transparency? didn't he listen to you? you didn't say anything about terrorism. the austrian presidency of the council talks about subsidiarity and bureaucracy and the ecj, but not the citizens! the governments are obsessed with their claim to power, the citizens want european democracy, they want a social dimension, they want their fundamental rights and they want to improve this constitution. the president of the commission would be well advised to assume his historic responsibility of initiating and supporting this process of improvement.
the commission has already done so. i can fully endorse what you said today, and i know your great commitment to plan d. only what you said today about the constitution is not in the papers. i refer in particular to the citizen-centred agenda. i therefore share the criticism of martin schulz and many others who say that if you read these papers you will come to the conclusion that the commission has given up fighting for the constitution. i find that very unfortunate, because you are not only grossly disappointing many citizens who have also fought for the constitution - for example in the referenda. that's really something to criticize. there are two major shortcomings that you almost do not address in this paper. the first is the institutional deficit. the cost of non-constitutionalism is not really indicated, and i agree with mr méndez de vigo. the second deficit concerns the lack of financial resources. this too has hardly been mentioned. that brings me to my main problem. i agree with you, madam vice-president, that it is absolutely necessary not only to wait and fight for the constitution and for better financial facilities, but also to act now. i'm going to tackle the problem of unemployment. you quote beautiful phrases here, which i can agree with, but where are the concrete proposals beyond what we have dealt with so far in lisbon and so on? where are the concrete proposals, for example, for the economic policy coordination that is absolutely necessary, particularly in the euro area but also beyond, in order to create better economic policy conditions? the commission president has promised that he will try to ensure that public investment in infrastructure is better coordinated, because we do not have enough money to finance everything from europe and much of it has to be financed nationally. none of this is in the papers! energy policy: we have discussed the need to take substantial steps, especially in the area of infrastructure, regardless of the constitution, which gave europe greater powers in energy policy. none of this is specifically mentioned in the documents submitted. it is similar in foreign and security policy, where you can say on the one hand that we have to go to the limit of what is possible without a constitution, but at the same time point out how important it would be to have a constitution to take further steps here. they are calling for a european response to globalisation. but again, there are far too few approaches to what this european response could look like, to develop a european social model and yet be able to drive forward modernisation and compete. this is also a citizen-friendly policy, and this is what many citizens expect from us. i therefore ask you once again to make the commission's position on the constitution clear. we must not stop there, and i am absolutely in favour of taking steps in parallel. but do not renounce the institutional prerequisites, because you will disappoint the citizens if you do not clearly tell them that a constitution is also necessary to be able to implement the interests of the citizens of europe globally.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there's no point in reinventing the wheel, not even for the transportation committee. we therefore welcome the commission's approach, which has deliberately set a precedent after the successful marco polo i programme and has tried to continue the successful approaches of marco polo i seamlessly with its present proposal. seamless means, in particular, that we must ensure that we have the opportunity to put marco polo ii on the rails in time, that is to say, by 1 january next year. the objectives of marco polo ii have already been set out in great detail by vice-president barot. i can therefore keep my remarks brief on purpose. the main aim is to continue the old programme, but with an added value. we will have much more money for marco polo ii than we had for marco polo i, and we will therefore also have the opportunity to redirect transport even more successfully than before to more environmentally friendly modes of transport. we have not reached the 47 million originally envisaged. i believe, however, that the compromise result which was to be achieved in the context of the general financial perspective shows that for the commission but also for the other two institutions, namely the council and parliament marco polo is an important programme. another advantage is that we have deliberately incorporated the extension of marco polo i into the programme framework, taking account of the new circumstances and going beyond them. we believe that all the countries of the union's eastern neighbourhood, but also the mediterranean region, should benefit from the marco polo ii initiatives, because it is reasonable to intercept traffic as close as possible to its point of origin and to divert it to more environmentally friendly forms of transport. we have also changed the overall approach to the measures, if i may continue with the comparison with the council. we have added two new actions, the motorways of the sea, on which the commissioner has already reported extensively, and the issue of traffic avoidance, where we have also had very intensive discussions internally about the need to approach this issue more carefully. the vice-president has already pointed out that european subsidies cannot be used to transfer jobs within the union or beyond the union, and possibly on a large scale. that cannot and should not be the aim of our action. in essence, therefore, the marco polo ii programme was given the green light by all three institutions from the outset, and we have taken this as an opportunity to try to complete and finalize this piece of legislation at first reading. this has been achieved thanks to the great willingness of the commission in particular, but also of the council of transport ministers. the council is not normally the partner with whom we have been in a love marriage for many years, but in this particular case we have managed to work together in a very constructive way. the european parliament saw little need to change this already good text, marco polo ii. we have made a conscious effort in parliament to ensure that smes also have the opportunity to participate in marco polo projects to an increased extent, or at least to the same extent as before. we have put forward a number of - i hope - sensible proposals, particularly in connection with the reduction of the thresholds to the original marco polo i objectives. it is now up to all of us to make our efforts to make them more efficient and less bureaucratic. with this project we have sent an important and correct signal. in conclusion, i would like to thank all those involved - the commission, the council and my colleagues in parliament - for their constructive cooperation. finally, a technical aspect: because we wanted to conclude at first reading, we had to ensure the technical compatibility of the two texts of the council and parliament. the linguistic lawyers from both services will have work to do here. i ask for your understanding.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, my fellow countryman mr rack, for his excellent cooperation. i would also like to thank my group colleagues for their patience and confidence in me in this case, because - as mr rack also mentioned at the end - the council's somewhat cumbersome approach in this case has repeatedly led to changes being made at short notice. so thank you for your trust. as we all know, the european transport system will face major challenges in the coming years, which must be met now. it is expected that there will be an increase in traffic of up to 60%, with the expected consequences of congestion, environmental damage, accidents and also the risk of loss of competitiveness of european industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was therefore very pleased that it was possible to develop a prolonged, adapted marco polo programme relatively quickly. there were positives and negatives, of course. the budget, which was relatively large at first and then reduced to 400 million euros, is negative. this is particularly disappointing when one considers that the whole transport sector will be cut. the union has probably set the wrong priorities here in terms of budget figures. but there are mostly positive things to say about marco polo ii. the reduction in the minimum thresholds for support is welcome, as smes in particular have been less likely to participate in the programme. it is also important that one particular point, namely the relocation to the railway sector, the modernisation of the train equipment, etc., has been covered by the programme. i also feel that the calculation model is particularly successful in that it does not only take tonnage into account, as in the old marco polo programme, but also allows for the first time to take volume into account. there has been substantial progress in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now i'm curious to see how it will develop in practice, and i hope it will be a very good programme.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the greens will of course support this programme, even though there is too little money for it. that needs to be established. we had hoped that negotiations might still succeed in extending the programme, and therefore did not give our consent to everything immediately. there was hope, but unfortunately it was not fulfilled. the reduction of the original estimated figures by half was a setback for me - i must say this quite frankly - but the programme itself has turned out to be positive in the evaluation. it must and will therefore be supported by us. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. because this time there is a focus on inland waterways and short sea transport - i do not call it motorways of the sea, it always seems a bit strange to me - and we had to realize that several transport transfers cannot take place because the key points, the nodes between the different modes of transport are missing. i think that this is a central and important area to be dealt with. the programme would also send a signal to the population suffering from the negative effects of road freight transport, such as emissions, noise, health and environmental burdens which people articulate, which they consider dramatic and which they want to reduce. that's why this program is so important to me right now. we have unfortunately had to note in some speeches by commission representatives that during the mid-term review of the white paper there is a reflection on the fact that the shift towards environmentally friendly transport is no longer an objective of the european union, and i think this is absolutely negative. if we want to protect the environment and the health of the people, we need not only a programme of 400 million euros, but a focused objective that intervenes and clearly states that we cannot simply let traffic run as it does, but that we must control it. you're steering now, and you're steering in the wrong direction. if the mid-term review really involves a departure from the change in the model shift, we lose credibility with the population. it is a farewell to politics if one simply gives in to the interventions of the most powerful lobbyists and forgets the interests of the people on the streets. it is not a matter of politics any more, it is simply the pursuit of the economic interests of a small sector of the economy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report on the place of supply of services deals with the taxation of services supplied to non-taxable persons. it follows on from the commission's report on the amendment of the taxation of services to taxable persons, which was presented three years ago, and therefore concerns the business-to-business sector. we as a parliament have not made any substantial changes for the following reasons. firstly, because the commission's proposal provides a coherent framework in relation to the amendments to the sixth vat directive already proposed three years ago. secondly, this framework is a good compromise between taxation at the place of consumption and the administrative capacity of european companies. thirdly, the proposal is an important step towards reforming the european vat system in a changed environment. fourthly, we hope that the council will adopt this regulation together with the proposal to establish a one-stop shop for businesses, because it will reduce the bureaucratic burden on businesses in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the compromise we have voted on today, but we must not forget that the state has the primary responsibility for tackling the problem of obesity, especially in children. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so yes, information, but please let the government now also put measures in place to deal with the problem of obesity in a meaningful way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is also the european union's task to do something about the increase in diseases which are closely linked to our diet. i believe that the european union, in view of the european public's strong scepticism about genetic engineering and the recent wto ruling, would be called upon to push for studies on the medium and long-term health damage caused by genetically modified food, in order to finally provide some clarity among the general public. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
in writing. the commission proposal has been very controversial since its introduction and there were very narrow majorities in the european parliament at first reading. i am one of the few who have supported the commission's very good proposal from the beginning of the debate. the common position is also very good and the compromise reached at second reading on the nutritional profiles is the lowest common denominator that can be supported.
in writing. i agree with the directive on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to food. i believe it is of the utmost importance to harmonize the different national regulations on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to food. the long discussions have shown that member states have very controversial views on this subject, on the one hand, as regards the need for the addition of such nutrients for a balanced diet and, on the other, based on the different traditions of the member states. although this report only covers the voluntary addition of vitamins and minerals, it is important to note that the sole intention of the manufacturer may be to use vitamins and minerals for nutritional and health reasons. the definition of certain 'other substances' must be the same and, of course, a negative list must be drawn up for the sake of consumer protection. the first priority is and remains the protection and information of consumers, since in case of doubt they are the ones who suffer the damage, while the producers profit from it.
in writing. it is a very important political signal from the european parliament to exclude clearly from the fisheries agreement the areas of western sahara occupied by morocco. i have tabled amendments to that effect. since these amendments were not adopted, i voted against the convention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the overcoming of the divisions in europe by admitting to the european union those countries which have suffered for decades under the yoke of communism is undoubtedly a historic achievement. however, it must be said that for far too long the legitimate concerns and fears of european citizens have not been taken seriously and an enlargement mechanism has simply been put in place, so to speak, over their heads. the current discussion about various scenarios of postponement and pressure on bulgaria and romania is also the result of this - in my view - unfortunate development. if we are honest, we must admit that the introduction of a rigid timetable in last year's accession treaties actually laid the foundation for our present dilemma. the prospect of accession alone has spurred bulgaria and romania to renewed efforts to be accepted into the union. so we have once again found a way of influencing the members who will be joining us so that they are as well prepared as possible. of course, romania and bulgaria are part of the european family of nations. but it is not to be expected that the two countries will be able to solve their many problems of corruption and organised crime in just a few months. it is in the interest of both the european union and the citizens of the two candidate countries themselves not to rush into accessions. as history has repeatedly shown, in the event of a hasty accession and the resulting embellishment of the situation, only the people in the candidate countries themselves will be presented with the bill. the european union is to be completed by the accession of romania and bulgaria. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, it will end in tears; the question is which one. i do not think that with your decision announced today you have advanced the european union, certainly not towards a superpower, but you have taken another step towards implosion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. those who are pushing you to do this, namely the british and polish governments, must be held accountable to their electorate. the question is, to whom is the commission responsible for this? the real problem is not the supposed dependence of the judiciary, but on the contrary its almost absolute independence from all control mechanisms. judges and prosecutors have no need to fear any kind of supervision of their offices, because there is none. the judiciary enjoys a great deal of freedom, often including the freedom of law and order. the possibilities for buying judgments are great,' according to the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung of the day before yesterday. yesterday's standard reported that the head of the german criminal police federation came back and said: "it's pointless. whenever i tried to go into detail, they said that disclosure was against the national interest. the mistake was to promise them membership too soon. why are you still making more mistakes when you are still talking as if you wanted to move the union forward?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let's be honest and realistic. we have to assume that both countries, bulgaria and romania, will join on 1 january 2007, firstly because they will continue their own reform work - i am convinced of this - and secondly because the majority requirements in the council speak in favour of this. but what matters to me is how these countries join the european union in 2007, whether they somehow manage to slip through or slip in or whether they come in with their heads held high and we can agree in good conscience. i agree with the commission and with you, commissioner rehn, that there are still some steps to be taken in both countries. i would ask you to be very specific about what changes are needed. because some of the things that are in here don't seem clear to you. for example, they speak of the ambiguity regarding the independence of the judiciary. there must be reasons why this doesn't seem clear to you. we must also tell the bulgarians and the romanians what they have to do. i believe that the governments of both countries are ready to make the changes. but if we are playing this up and if we are putting this question very high, perhaps higher than the copenhagen criteria or the acquis communautaire allow - for which there are good reasons - then we must say very clearly - and i ask you to do so today and tomorrow when you are in the countries - what changes are necessary. the changes must be concrete and realistic and they must be achievable, because it is pointless to demand things which cannot be achieved in this short time. if that is the case, and if there is a special monitoring period, then i believe that both countries will now take the necessary steps to join on 1 january 2007. i think they can play a big role then. if some colleagues have claimed that crime and corruption are prevalent in both countries, that is not true. both countries have done a lot to improve this and will continue to do so. this is also due to pressure from the european union.
i'm not going to tell you. we know that childcare in romania is in a bad way, as the commission has also noted in its progress reports. now other problems seem to be coming to the fore. is this problem now resolved or has the commission simply shifted its focus? what is the situation with regard to childcare in this candidate country?
i'm not going to tell you. we are shocked by the reports of child abuse. unfortunately, authorities often fail to intervene in time, and a lack of cooperation can lead to months before judges allow a child to be removed from the abused environment. what measures does the commission envisage to improve the detection and rapid resolution of cases of child abuse in the future?
- i'm not sure. we have not yet had any long-term studies on the effects of genetically modified organisms. in view of the strong scepticism of europeans about genetic engineering and the recent wto ruling, does the eu plan to carry out studies on the medium and long-term health damage caused by gm food?
- i'm not sure. i would like to thank you very much for your reply. i also think it is very positive that the world information summit is to be held again. but do you really think that the measures you are taking will be sufficient? what action do you plan to take if this bad material is still on the internet? are the parents and guardians trained and made aware of the situation, including by the commission?
commissioner, i am very pleased that there is finally recognition in europe and the world that we need independence from the politically unstable regions from which the european union derives a large part of its energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we now know that biofuels can be produced without any processing, but the engines have to be built to run on both fuels. is there any consideration of this?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her good report and on her many years of good work in this field and i wish her a good recovery. i would also like to touch on a subject which has been close to the heart of dagmar roth-behrendt for many years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. cattle are vegetarians and only take animal proteins in the form of their mother's milk when they are young. this is a matter of course. the bse crisis has shown us that this principle was far from self-evident for a long time. it is therefore all the more important that we now, in the revision of the bse-tse basic regulation, underline the ethical principles in animal nutrition and stress the importance of this for the protection of human and animal health, but also in the context of the precautionary principle. at the end of 2004, the european parliament, on the initiative of the rapporteur, suspended a comitology decision on the release of fishmeal for feeding purposes. since then, this question has been hotly debated in this house. it is repeatedly pointed out that there is no tse risk from fishmeal. it is not for me to answer that scientific question, and it is not my business to answer it. we in the european parliament simply do not want fishmeal or other animal products to be used in cattle feed. i can agree with the compromise in that it provides for the possibility in future of adding fishmeal as a milk substitute for young calves, especially when they have been weaned. the strict conditions and controls are welcome. i think that we should have learned from the experience of the bse crisis and sent a clear signal for more animal ethics and better health and welfare!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also wish to extend my best wishes to mrs roth-behrendt. i would also like to thank you for your excellent report. we should remember that there is no known prevention or treatment for tses or bse in humans or animals, that the course of the disease is always fatal and that the chain of action in the production of these deadly prions is not yet fully understood by science. i would also remind you that in recent days we have had a case of bse in an organically run mining farm in upper austria and that the entire herd of 40 animals had to be culled, which of course meant the loss of livelihood for the farmer concerned. nevertheless, adjustments are needed in the handling of these justified precautions. we also find that the overall incidence of disease has decreased, so the measures have obviously worked. however, these controls and measures are very costly and threaten the livelihood of some farmers. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in particular, it is necessary to maintain the prohibitions on the feeding of animal protein. the compromise reached, namely to allow ruminants to use fishmeal for up to one year, is in my view the maximum and is very favourable to the fisheries industry. the amendments contained in this proposal are, i believe, absolutely necessary, especially when we consider that the measures have now been extended to all animal species and are not, in principle, confined to sheep and cattle. it is also important that we extend these measures to controls and export bans. the adaptations to the requirements of the international organisation for animal health, namely to reduce the five risk categories to three, are justified; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am also concerned that the committee procedure is being given a certain impetus. we in the european parliament should really try to keep this to a minimum, so that democratic control of these highly technical measures can continue.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs pleštinská. it has worked very well and perfectly with the committee on industry, research and energy, and what has been done here can also be seen. but i would also like to thank commissioner verheugen for his success in creating a new instrument, namely european standardisation, which can achieve this goal more quickly and efficiently. one example: we're currently addressing the issue of mobile tv, where it's nokia versus lg standardization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. or frequency assignment in the linear-digital domain. here, standardization - if done quickly, efficiently and well - offers opportunities to gain market share. or the chargers on the cell phones. there is also a lack of standardization. there is a huge need for action here, where we can make dramatic progress with economies of scale. i am therefore pleased that the focus is on small and mediumsized enterprises in particular, and i believe that the next step is to have a green paper on standardisation so that our economy can achieve the lisbon criteria much faster and more efficiently through standardisation, which is gaining ground worldwide - the best example of which is the gsm system. a green paper on this subject could give us the opportunity to show here where our chances lie in the future. this is a challenge. the european parliament is already pleased that we can work with the commission as well as we have done in the past.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very grateful to mr klinz for making such a clear distinction between the assessment of the person and the procedure, because we must not give the impression that our demands and wishes for the procedure affect the assessment of the person. today, we're about judging the person, and jürgen stark is a strong proposal from the council for issing's successor. i would also like to thank the outgoing member of the management board, mr issing, for his work and cooperation. jürgen stark is a strong signal for the stability and growth pact, a strong signal for the maastricht criteria, for the independence of the ecb, for a strong euro, for continuity and predictability. and continuity and predictability are the prerequisites for trust. we need not only more confidence in the european union, but also strong confidence in the independence of the ecb and in a strong euro. i therefore ask all colleagues to give jürgen stark our full confidence tomorrow. i 'm asking you to do the same . let us sacrifice these facts, which are also in the report convinced european, competent professional, strong supporter of the values of independence, supporter of the priority of price stability, firm belief in monetary policy, openness with regard to the rights of the european parliament and its commitment to intensify the dialogue between the two institutions not to the partisan petty-mindedness, because this mentality has no place in the eu or in the european central bank.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. point 11 of the report states: 'we would point out that in an eu where consumer and investor confidence is weak, the correction of public deficits is of fundamental importance.' i would stress that. the lisbon strategy - and i am only mentioning education and research - requires more money and more investment, including from the public sector. we have committed ourselves to finally raising our contributions to development aid to 0.7% and beyond, we are facing a global challenge and we are in a situation where the demographic development of one of our coffin nails on the continent of europe means that we have to make a decision. if we do not put our social security and pension systems in order, we will be the losers of globalisation. i am glad that in recent years there has been a reversal in public awareness of government deficits. before the introduction of the euro, public budgets were more the concern of experts. since the introduction of the euro, since the maastricht criteria, since the stability and growth pact, we have had a public interest, a debate on the structure of public finances, on the causes of annual deficits, on the effects of public debt. we have succeeded in reducing public deficits. this path must be continued because we must increase our scope for the future. i therefore congratulate the commission on today's decision, because it makes it clear that we take our rules seriously. this decision is not directed against anyone, but is aimed at ensuring that we take the maastricht criteria and the stability and growth pact seriously. i am therefore glad that the public debate has intensified and that we have thus contributed to a future-oriented structure of our budgets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i've been in politics for 32 years, and i believe that freedom of speech and of the press is the highest good of democracy. for two days now, i have been followed, harassed and bombarded with frivolous questions every morning - yesterday at 8:15 a.m., today at 8:30 a.m. - by a tv crew who did not introduce themselves. i really feel threatened. i would also like to point out that yesterday - there are also witnesses to this - hans-peter martin was in the background of this television team, today not. i ask you, mr president, to take appropriate action, because i cannot accept this kind of harassment. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take the opportunity afforded by mrs schierhuber's speech to add that we in this european parliament are adopting legislation on a sound basis to ensure that people are not harassed and bullied at their workplace. we should ensure that this workplace, the european parliament, also provides our members with the same protection that we rightly demand for workers in europe. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my name has been called. i refer to rule 149 (1) of the rules of procedure. i just want to point out that i was, in fact, interviewed by a tv crew. before false rumors are spread: it is true that i was driving my car in kehl yesterday morning. but you shouldn't be knitting anything out of it. i believe that the fourth force, the independence of the press, is there. we should respect that. i'll take that as a yes.
mr president, mr hans-peter martin was not in the car, but i can also give the young lady's name to the security services. he was walking outside the hotel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council of ministers, which are the only ones who can do this, get in the way of the european parliament's work. we should try to overcome the crisis of confidence through concrete policies, results and reforms and regain the confidence of the citizens. sometimes the moment of truth comes sooner than you think. today we are faced with the context, the possibilities of european union policy, and i ask you how you intend to meet people's expectations with this budget. it is ghastly when the president of the council speaks of a fair and balanced outcome. we have heard the statements from the expert committees: insufficient development cooperation, education, youth and research below any standard, communication gaps in our security operations abroad, rural development has fallen dramatically. this is the situation with which you are seriously trying to regain the confidence of the citizens of europe. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the future of the european union. this is the programmed disappointment of the citizens' expectations. this is the programmed deepening of the crisis. you can't leave the text and the context unchanged!
mr president, mr finance minister, you are right. without transparency, there can be no meaningful financial agreements. that's why i'd like to read something to you. we need to listen to citizens who complain about the misuse of eu funds. there are recipes for that, namely independent control. we must listen to those who call for greater transparency in european decisions, for example when they call for the public disclosure of subsidies so that it is clear who has actually benefited. why not? - why not? all this should be published. this is european taxpayers' money. i think you can agree with that, mr finance minister. in any case, this quote is from your chairman, chancellor wolfgang schüssel. he gave it here in this very hall, right where you are sitting, on january 18 of this year. what's the plan? where are the publications by the treasury? eleven eu member states are doing it, austria is not, under your presidency. the president of the council has nevertheless promised that we will be allowed to know how much eu money large farmers and orf editors have received, especially in the context of the opc farmers' official agnes schierhuber. do it now! do not let them fall prey to false whispers! do not fall into a false power frenzy! don't believe the orf editor-in-chief, don't make an elephant out of him when you drag him up to the general secretary in the general directorate, and finally put it in public!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hear again and again today that we would agree to a compromise. in a compromise, the conversation usually revolves around whether the glass is half full or half empty. that is not the case today, and that is why the austrian social democrats will not agree to this so-called compromise. we are dealing with a return to national politics - this was mentioned by my predecessor. the original sin of these financial negotiations was that six heads of state and government said we could create more europe, more european objectives with less money. but that is not possible at home or in europe! you just have to look in the papers . the headline in an austrian newspaper, the standard, yesterday morning was: 'the eu is falling far short of its own educational goals.' we have six million young people who leave school without a degree, and then we see the figures for lifelong learning which are 42% below the figures in parliament. here we see that things don't fit together. we will - if there is a majority this afternoon - take joint responsibility for a budget which does not bear our signature. the difference between the two - and i congratulate them all - and the difference between the two is about 0.2% of the total of this budget for seven years. that is what the directly elected european parliament does with a budget like this. that's not enough, the glass is not half full, the glass is empty! i therefore hope that many members of this house will refuse to approve this financial perspective!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. some of us voted with more passion against the december summit decision than we will vote for the result of the tough negotiations today. with many, many, many observers, we probably would have been more popular in the short term if we had said no. some media would probably have headlined on 5 or 6 april: parliament shows its teeth, council has been dismissed. but have we really done more for european objectives, more for the citizens of europe, more for a better budget, more for a european union that can act? these are questions that each of us must ask ourselves today. without the successful exercise of our responsibilities, without the willingness of the institutions to work together, without the agreement with the european parliament and without our consent today, there will be no certainty of multiannual planning, no institutional agreement, no greater scope for the annual budget negotiations which we will use, no revision clause and no improved say in programmes and control. each of us has to ask ourselves whether, without our consent, there would really be 800 million more for education, 400 million more for the cip programmes for small and mediumsized enterprises, 100 million more for social policy, 300 million more for the cohesion fund, 200 million more for natura 2000, etc. with our agreement, we moved an additional 7.9 billion euros. this agreement should therefore be supported in the interests of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have given my assent to the böge report in particular because parliament has succeeded in showing that the european union is also something like a social and an educational union. we have succeeded in negotiating an additional 800 million euros for our young people. this money will enable many young people in the european union - we estimate that it will be a hundred thousand more than last time - to receive a better education in a european union country and thus also to protect themselves against unemployment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have agreed with the rack report, although i believe that given the high environmental and human impact of transport, it would be essential to increase the share of rail in freight transport. the private sector is also increasingly competitive and the competition is getting tougher. the austrian railways, for example, were able to increase the volume of goods transported, but at the same time they recorded a decrease in margins. according to one study, an increase in truck tolls would not bring about any shifting of traffic to rail, but would only accelerate the massive demise of small hauliers, while putting a strain on business and trade. only improvements in quality and structure would encourage the transfer of goods to rail. the only sensible solution, in my view, would be to radically change our system of subsidies, which has so far favoured cross-border transport across the eu. if we are to maintain this transport craze, we should at least support the so-called rolling road.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is in the european union's interest to bring its neighbouring countries, particularly those in south-eastern europe, up to european union standards. this brings stability to the region concerned and it brings stability to the european union as a whole. the programmes we have had so far have been used with great success over long distances. we could give a whole host of examples, particularly in the balkans. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has started to develop new programmes with parliament for the period after 2007. it is necessary to do so because it is in the interests of both parties. it is also in the interest of parliament and of all to ensure that the funds of these programmes are then used to the best possible effect. i can tell you from my own experience that there are too many projects where there is too much discussion instead of concrete action and help. there are too many projects running in parallel and overlapping, and sometimes the projects are in competition with the united states and other countries. there is no coordination at all. i therefore ask the commission to do three things: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, projects should only be approved if they actually provide practical assistance to ensure that standards are raised. thirdly, the disbursement of funds must be linked to the achievement of the objectives. i am glad that the commissioner has said that we will then carry out a first review in 2009 to show where we are doing well and where we are lacking. overall, it is about ensuring that european union money is used in the best possible way in the interests of security and stability in the whole region.
i would like to ask a question similar to that of mr posselt. he pointed to the potentially dangerous parallel with turkey. i see another problem, and it is a more fundamental one. we are facing great difficulties in organizing the accessions of romania and bulgaria in such a way that we can both meet the deadlines set by the council at a very early stage and ensure that the candidate countries actually achieve the level of achievement we expect of them. in the case of croatia, it is a little different: much has been achieved, much has been moved, but it has been put on a very long leash.
as you know, the eu-iran human rights dialogue has been suspended. we also know that there is a clear interest on the part of iran to resume this dialogue, but we are aware of the problems. how do you see the situation? will the dialogue be resumed soon and what could it actually achieve in the specific cases we are discussing?
first of all, i would like to congratulate the council on the fact that it has succeeded in defining the single market for the end user in the final documents for 2007. this will be a lot of work, but i think it will be a benefit to the lisbon strategy accordingly. my question is: what is the energy community really like? can it be extended to other countries and which countries are the main ones?
mr president of the council! the commission has produced a nice paper on the security of energy supply in the union. we know that the competence in this area is very fragmented. what can the council presidency do to ensure that europe acts in a united manner, particularly in relation to russia, and what can be done to maintain the sustainability standards we have achieved in the community also in relation to our partner russia in energy production?
instead of constantly seeking new sources of finance, for example in the form of direct eu taxes, and instead of constantly increasing the spending side, it is probably time for the vast majority of citizens in the european union to finally get a grip on fraud and waste. what is the council's position?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my question is: how many countries, as you know, are strongly opposed to it, and do you see a way of overcoming the unanimity? and should we not abolish unanimity on taxes relevant to the internal market altogether?
mr president-in-office, i am sure you are also aware of the criticism that tax havens are increasingly being used to launder money. the money laundering rules in these countries do not meet the usual high standards or are not applied correctly. is there any thought on the part of the presidency of the council and the european union to tackle and solve this problem in cooperation with these countries?
what measures does the council intend to take to bring about greater discipline in those countries which repeatedly jeopardize the stability pact by exceeding their deficits?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i want to congratulate you on this contract. i believe that the european union is moving in the right direction here: towards cooperation, towards an open mind on the global energy market. my question is: with which countries are the negotiations proceeding? what are our priorities? and, above all, have the effects of the kyoto treaty been analysed in these treaties? what is the impact on energy production? what energy mix will emerge and how will investment behaviour in this area develop? i believe that these treaties give us an opportunity to define certain structures and thus also to fulfil the lisbon agenda.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank mr elles for his work. strategic planning for the 2007 budget will be crucial for the continued positive development of europe. in this context, i think it is particularly worth mentioning the support for the two internal policy areas - the lisbon objectives and rural policy. in view of demographic developments and also of globalisation, it is quite sensible to pay greater attention to the reformed agricultural and rural policies. it is in this context that the lisbon objectives can and must be a means of solving current problems such as unemployment and economic stagnation. the common agricultural policy, as the only community policy of the european union, has been subject to constant reforms over the last few decades, compared with other policies. the agricultural politicians and farmers have often enough shown their willingness to accept losses and changes for a common europe. european agriculture has shown its willingness to reform. now it's time to honor that. in the case of sustainable agriculture, our european model, there must be certainty in planning, and this is the case with the fixing of the budget until 2013, that is to say, for the next seven years. but it must also be clear that the budgetary resources decided on in the cap reform will continue to apply without reductions until 2013. we have carried out the reforms, and now it means for us farmers that we have reached the pain limit. this far and no further!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many scientists attribute the year of disaster, 2005, to global warming and the greenhouse effect. others attribute this to the natural cycle of disasters. the fact is, we are not innocent of these disasters. for example, over the centuries, more and more natural floodplains have been lost. experts believe that in europe we have already exhausted the technical flood protection by building dams, so that in the near future we will have to work more and more with so-called retention rooms. it seems that the respect for the forces of nature is being lost altogether. the settlement and industrialisation of exposed areas, such as the coast or river basins, is known to be increasing rapidly. in these circumstances, natural disasters are therefore difficult or impossible to prevent. but we can do our best to mitigate the consequences, for example by means of a solidarity fund. the development and expansion of early warning systems is essential in this context, and there is still a great deal to be done. i think that the european union is particularly needed here.
mr president, mr prime minister verhofstadt, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is still thought in europe! who would have thought? by a head of government, in the middle of a pause for thought. and that is also about europe. i thank you, i welcome your speech, your courageous and clear language, with which you have broken the thundering silence of governments - or sometimes it is believed that you have been dealing with cat music - and have risen here in the midst of the crisis from the calculations of domestic politics, from the atmosphere of renationalization, to speak for europe. it's not pleasant, but it's important and meaningful. they have resisted the temptation to manipulate the european debate and the motives of the people who voted no. that's my big problem right now. almost all governments now try to put motives on people that they did not have. it is as if those who said no had not voted for a more democratic, social and active europe, had not directed their protest against the existing europe, but had demanded less europe. they have actually listened to the people and not, like the british and austrian presidencies, to the other governments. they have resisted the hubris that tells us that we have been too hasty with the constitution, that we have aimed too high, that we have over-stretched the people, that we have set our goals too high. no, you have understood, as one of the very few, that the opposite is true: we have been too slow, we have jumped too short, our goals have not been generous enough, our visions have not been convincing enough and our compromises have been too lazy. that is why you are calling for the crisis to be resolved not by retreat, not by fatigue, not by resignation and demagogy, but by a clear step forward. let me make just one suggestion: if we can agree to summarise this step you are proposing in many fields - democracy, social competence, own responsibility for security - in a constitutional amendment, then we do not need to destroy the constitutional process, but we can show the citizens a clear path, a step further towards a higher goal, and we must not let the 'no' become a failure for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group chairman, martin schulz, said that he would like to see more heads of government like mr verhofstadt. i would like to continue by saying that i would particularly like to see a commission president who is so committed to the future of europe. i can now follow up on my predecessor's comments: in criticizing the lack of economic and social policy, you have highlighted the lisbon process and this open method of coordination. i believe that this method is a particularly good example of a misunderstanding of the principle of subsidiarity, namely that the member states, while formally insisting on their competences in these areas, do not actually exercise them in substance or only partially. the consequence of all this is that the damage is attributed to the european union and the responsibility is not seen as being on the member states. we know that we will not solve all the shortcomings in economic and social policy with this constitutional treaty either, which is also evidenced by our failure in the convention, where we have achieved almost nothing or not much in this area. my question is: what other options do you see in the eurozone, apart from those which have been mentioned, so that we can, while adhering to this constitutional treaty, safeguard what is contained in it, so that we can still make progress in this area?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the partnership between the united states and europe is a difficult but necessary partnership. it is necessary, as president barroso once said, to speak with the united states on an equal footing. now, it makes little sense to ask the united states to kneel down so that we can talk on equal terms. we must be stronger, we must exploit our full potential - economically, but also, of course, in foreign policy. i would like to mention two areas of foreign policy where i believe there are some very positive developments. the first is the middle east question and the financial support. i know, commissioner, that you have been very active behind the scenes in trying to find a sensible, pragmatic solution. i am very glad that europe has found a solution here with the united states. the second issue is iran. i not only wish you good luck at the talks, madam foreign minister, but i hope you can also do some persuasive work here. we must be firm on this, but the us must also, as is now being announced, talk directly with iran. but above all, this is no place for military adventures. these are two areas where i hope we can talk to the united states as a truly independent, confident partner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking in the expectation that you will give me the same time as the previous speakers, to whom you have been very generous. what you are presenting here is actually a very, very sad matter. the report shows that the budget is to be increased by a further 4.2% and that 250 new jobs are to be created. so what you're doing here is an expression of organized irresponsibility. it is clear that a group has taken the european project hostage, and i am sadly convinced that all those who agree to this will go down in history as blind spenders. if you took this report, translated it into all the official languages and gave it to the europeans to read, they would be horrified and say: what do you think, we don't have that anymore, we can't afford it any more! half of that would be too much. and everyone here knows that, but they act differently. this reminds me very much of how, in the soviet union, every year there was talk of new record harvests and of new maximisations and efficiency gains. what is happening here is a disgrace and unworthy of the european parliament.
the commission has already done so. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's action in this field. however, up to now, treatment may have been focused almost exclusively on convicted sex offenders, neglecting preventive treatment options. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i believe that police cooperation and data exchange in this area should also be improved and that the general availability of data on these offenders should be considered in the light of the american model.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a request to make of you. the commission has already made a number of proposals. stephen hughes is in luxembourg on business and is on his way here. my request would be - and it is supported by the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs - that we could have this vote at the end of today's voting period.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the single european currency may be helpful in building a common european identity, and that would undoubtedly also welcome the extension of the euro to the republic of slovenia. but the euro must not be used to carry out symbolic historical politics. the fact that slovenia, for example, uses austrian symbols such as the prince's stone of kärtner on its euro coins is a provocation that could suggest historical territorial claims by laibach and ljubljana respectively. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i voted against the langen report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to say why i was unable to agree to the vidal-quadras report. in 1997, the eu decided to increase its share of renewable energy to 12% by 2010. but it seems that we can at best achieve an increase to 8%. in view of these figures, the chances of success of the targeted target of saving one fifth of current energy consumption by 2020 are rather doubtful. instead of continually increasing the funding for the eu nuclear research programme, i think we should better direct this funding towards the promising fields of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am surprised at what mr brok has accused us of. we cannot give up a right we have won! we must make a statement! i'm very surprised at this change. i have to take note of that, of course, it's also a good democratic right to get smarter. but we are still of the opinion that there should be a resolution. we shall see what the vote will say. we believe that it is useful to express our opinion before a council meeting, namely that we are very much committed to doing everything possible to ensure that accession can take place on 1 january 2007. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the border between chile and argentina, under various glaciers, the largest deposits of gold, silver, and copper are suspected. the surrounding region has very high unemployment and the country lives almost exclusively from agriculture. several companies are now taking very worrying steps to extract these minerals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. environmental groups fear that arsenic in particular will have a serious impact on the huasco valley, where 70 000 small farmers are involved in irrigation. despite protests from environmental groups and local residents, the chilean government has unfortunately given the green light for the demolition, knowingly accepting that the ecological balance of the region is being destroyed. i therefore ask the commission to take account of the problems of this project and to put forward proposals on how they can be addressed.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. we have heard many positive things from them, but i would like to express some doubts. firstly, i would like to say that this problem cannot be attributed solely to the world cup or to germany. we used the world cup to bring a taboo subject to the public because football is the big event. there is no other event as spectacular and as popular as the world cup. forced prostitution occurs at all major events, not just at sporting events. we know that the rate of prostitution increases here in strasbourg too when the european parliament is in session. that too should be said, so as not to blame everything on sport. nevertheless, i support the action and am glad that we have brought the issue of the world cup to the public. i regret that fifa may have misunderstood and feel themselves attacked. she could have supported us very well with many great footballers and many stars and also made the fans aware of these marginal phenomena. that doesn't mean she's responsible, but she could have helped us, and i mean, she should have. commissioner, you spoke to the telephone helpline. you told us on women's day that we would have a single number, translated into many languages, 24 hours a day. i ask you, is she really available for 24 hours? unfortunately, there is no uniform number. now the women, the victims, or even the customers who have the courage to try to help or who want to report something, have to remember three different numbers or they have to dial different numbers. i do not think that is very helpful, and i would ask you to repeat a number of things here, especially in the future. you mentioned increased cooperation with europol. the question is: has europol also been strengthened? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'd ask you to look at this, too. there's no point in just saying you're in, there's got to be consequences. cooperation with interpol is part of that, and i am glad that the german authorities are also cooperating here, the embassies, consulates and so on. perhaps after the world cup we can summarize how the emergency calls are being used, from which countries most of the victims come and, above all, what has been done to the victims. that is another question we must ask ourselves after the world cup. i would like to ask you, mr president, what progress has been made in implementing the action plan which the council has presented and in which you are also involved, up to june? a large part of it should be completed now and the rest by the end of the year. i wish us all the best and let's show the forced prostitution the red card!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must send a clear signal on health and environment policy with our vote tomorrow, and our amendments, which are very likely to be adopted tomorrow, strengthen article 6 and make it a clear signal for more environmental protection. i would also like to stress that there is no need for exceptions. the common position provides for an exception for diffuse sources of pollutants. it is important that the amendment in this respect be adopted. such an exception would make it difficult to monitor diffuse sources and would lead to legal uncertainty. the protection of our groundwater requires uniform standards across europe for the most important pollutants. this is the only way to avoid distortions of competition and environmental dumping. the nitrate limit should be set at 50 milligrams, and there should be no exceptions for agricultural activities, which in many regions of europe are the main cause of pollution of our groundwater. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank christa klaß, who is fighting very ambitiously for this important issue, even though the opposition from within her own ranks is not easy. i would have expected a more ambitious proposal from the commission and the council, and above all a common position that was clearer, more specific and more workable. i also believe that this common position of the council does not fulfil the mandate of article 17 of the water framework directive. why would you do that? this ignores groundwater as an independent ecosystem. the requirements for the protection of groundwater are not oriented towards maintaining groundwater as natural as possible. let us remember that the largest areas of europe draw their drinking water from groundwater reserves and that this can still be obtained fresh from the source without treatment. it must remain that way, or rather it must improve. another criticism is that it leaves considerable discretion to the member states, particularly in assessing the status of groundwater, in setting guidelines for reversing rising pollution trends and in establishing the starting point for this reversal. this will of course prevent the homogeneous implementation of both the water framework directive and the daughter directive for example, the reversal of trends from the outset. if the member states have to provide a complete description of each substance in the measurement procedure, which i think is extremely positive, we must ensure that community or national quality standards are established. the sampling procedures should also be improved and the wording of the legislation as a whole tightened up, in order to close loopholes for member states and to prevent the directive as a whole from being watered down.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and, above all, on the commitment she has shown to this report. if you listen to various colleagues, you get the impression that their countries should not have joined this union, because obviously everything is better there and the union only makes mistakes. i believe, however, that environmental policy is an area which benefits all european countries, including those which already have excellent regulations, because environmental problems do not stop at frontiers. this instrument, which the commission has thankfully presented and which the honourable member has worked so well on, also shows that we need european regulations. we should use geodata together, especially for environmental purposes, to promote standards of provision and, if possible, to create a geodata structure that works across the eu. but there are responsibilities to be clarified: who creates this data, who is responsible for maintaining it, and who owns it? it's imperative that we build this metadata information and spread it widely. however, we also have to face some problems such as liability issues . if we share very detailed data - which is usually municipal data, i.e. data produced by the municipalities - this should only be possible with the publication of the conditions of use. we must also take into account that there are certain income losses for the municipalities. this data transfer should be allowed as provided for in the report on a fee basis. it would be useful to leave the decision on the level of fees to the body producing the data. another problem is that we should produce data as homogeneous as possible and that some harmonisation is required.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner dimas in particular, and in particular his officials and the shadow rapporteurs, for their excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report. i think flooding is really one of the great environmental issues, and you just turn on your tv and you know that this phenomenon is unfortunately increasing. we had over 100 major flooding events in europe from 1998 to 2004, particularly along the danube and elbe rivers in 2002. the result was 700 deaths, half a million homeless, and damage estimated at some $25 billion. we also had massive floods last year - my country was also directly affected - and so i think it is useful to think at european level about what can be done about it. in particular, it is considered scientifically established that this frequency and, in particular, the intensity of heavy rainfall is exacerbated by several factors related to human activity. and if you think about the intensive urbanization, especially in high-risk areas, we have urban areas in critical areas, we have roads there, we are changing river courses, and unfortunately there are also unconsidered developments of river floodplains. deforestation is added to this, which also contributes to the forest's inability to perform its protective function. intensive farming, which in some cases leads to the sealing of the topsoil, the reduction of the meadows and also of the overflow areas, the development of pasture land, etc. - all this leads to an increase in the risk in addition to soil erosion. i therefore very much welcomed the commission's proposal to present this flood action programme after the year 2000. the commission's communication on flood management was then published and the environment ministers also asked the commission to submit this proposal for a directive. the water framework directive has already been mentioned. i would remind you that article 1 of the water framework directive requires not only good ecological status of water but also that flood effects should be reduced as much as possible. i therefore believe that this initiative by the commission is going in the right direction. the european regulatory framework is absolutely necessary, especially in view of the fact that waters do not respect national borders and that even the best national approach cannot suffice. we have, thank god, countries such as england, the netherlands, germany and austria that have actually come a long way. but they fail to see that most of the concepts are purely national in nature. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have therefore tried to deal with this in my report. i have mentioned it explicitly on several occasions because i believe that the member states are responsible for themselves in determining the level of protection they wish to offer their citizens and that they should act independently, especially in the choice of protection measures. i think that we are particularly called upon to take account of the depth of the regulations in the report, to be careful not to go too far at european level and above all to be aware of another danger associated with the committee procedure, namely that we are actually proposing to the member states regulations which are not politically desirable in this form. we should also ensure that the administrative and technical effort required by member states to implement the directive is kept to a minimum. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be given the opportunity to present their proposals to the council and to the european parliament. it is not possible, therefore, that a european double standard simply requires member states which have already made great strides in their work to adopt different measures, whereas the existing ones are working very well. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the following elements: the principle of solidarity is also important: member states should not take measures which harm others. the principle of 'the top league meets the bottom league' is, i believe, extremely important.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his good report and his good work. the global approach and many points have already been raised tonight. i would like to mention two of them again, namely his and our call for this directive to be closely linked to the water framework directive, because we are convinced that effective flood control can only be achieved if the objectives of this directive are also in line with the objectives of the water framework directive. i would also like to expressly welcome the call for greater natural flood protection. the floods of recent years have shown that technical flood control alone cannot prevent disasters and that the nature of streams and rivers must be taken into account. the streams and rivers must be given more space again. the increasing trend of soil degradation by intensive farming must also be counteracted. agriculture and forestry must be more closely involved in the preventive flood management.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur. he has handled a very difficult task with distinction and excellence. we see that a representative of a new member state from poland, and he was also the polish prime minister, is perfectly capable of putting such a difficult matter to the test. i am pleased that as a researcher - that was one of his professional careers - he has shown here in parliament how important it is to bring the issues to the point in a technical, factual and political way. we can all welcome the work ahead and be proud that so many amendments have been tabled by the european parliament and the people. the objective is clear: we all want to live long and healthy lives. we have a lot of research to do to see what we can do in prevention. we want to improve employment with the lisbon objectives. the upper austrian governor pühringer once put it succinctly when he said: 'if we want to live in health, we must implement policies accordingly, and research is actually the basis for good social policy.' this is something that must be kept in mind if we are to achieve the growth objectives of the research programme, especially in the field of exports. i believe that the european export economy can also provide protection against globalisation in this respect. we need world markets, we need the opening up of markets, and for that we need excellent products and services. it would therefore be sensible to try to get this programme really started on 1 january 2007. i would be in favour of trying to start a trilogue after the vote on thursday, and perhaps it is possible to start this programme on 1 january 2007. it would be good for research, it would be good for our elections in 2009, and it would be good for europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to begin by thanking mr buzek for his excellent work and also the shadow rapporteurs, in particular mr philippe busquin, who has brought a great deal of knowledge and experience to the table. as far as the questions of priorities are concerned, health policy and health research certainly fall within this area. i do not agree with mr liese on this point, because stem cell research, including embryonic stem cell research, can be important for health, especially in areas where adult stem cell research cannot yet provide anything equivalent. i therefore consider it an enrichment to take this path and he has my full support. a second area which has also been given greater priority, especially by the european parliament, is the energy sector. we all know how important it is that we make progress in the energy sector, and i have repeatedly stressed how important it is that the big energy companies, which make huge profits, particularly from the increase in oil and gas prices, should invest more in research. i hope the commissioner will also see to it that there is more private funding. it is particularly important in the energy sector that we, the european union, do our part here through the framework programme for research and nuclear research. the question of nuclear research is of course very controversial because the question of nuclear energy is controversial. but if there is one important area which we should give absolute priority to, it is the security sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not used for civilian purposes, but for military or even terrorist purposes. i ask you, commissioner, to take this very seriously and to do more in this particular area. mr buzek has taken up some of my suggestions. there could have been more - there are different opinions on this - but i believe that the area of safety in the field of nuclear and energy research should be given absolute priority.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i refer to rule 131 (4) of the rules of procedure. environmental problems of a transnational nature can only be effectively tackled through international cooperation. the protection of the alps is one of the most important tasks for all member states, because the economic, social and environmental problems of the alpine region are felt across borders in europe. the convention for the protection of the alps was signed by the european community in salzburg on 7 november 1991 and entered into force in 1998 following the council decision of 26 february 1996. the european community has recently signed the 'soil protection', 'energy' and 'tourism' protocols, and now these protocols are to be ratified. unfortunately, the central transport protocol has not been signed to date. i ask the member state of italy in particular to do so.
in writing. the alpine region has a sensitive natural environment which is being seriously affected by the increasing traffic. the resulting environmental damage can only be remedied with years of high financial expenditure. but the people in these areas are also suffering particularly from the health effects of the increasing number of lorries in transit. if the alpine convention, including the transport protocols, which have been blocked mainly by the italian freight lobby, really fails because of the lack of capacity of the italian railway infrastructure, then it would be time to look at the appropriate expansion, for example in the framework of marco polo. the transport protocol must finally enter into force in all eight alpine countries if we are to stop the progressive destruction of this precious natural area and to offer a better quality of life to the people who live there.
in writing. drinking water as the number one food is now a matter of course for us at any time and in any quantity. what is already a reality in other countries, namely the struggle for this precious commodity, could also threaten our future generations if we do not make our citizens and the economy aware of the careful use of water. if built in the wrong places, groundwater can suddenly disappear irrevocably; if mismanaged for profit in sensitive areas, groundwater can take decades to recover. it is time to take a critical look at our extraction systems, particularly with regard to groundwater protection. for example, if we promote transeuropean transport or the cultivation of insecticide-intensive crops such as maize or tobacco, we also encourage the risk of groundwater pollution. the eu must set a good example and, for example, promote and support organic farming even more.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the most threatening scenario that is repeatedly drawn in connection with avian influenza is the emergence of a new virus subtype that can be transmitted from person to person. fortunately, we're not there yet, but even without this worst-case scenario, avian influenza is a major threat to human health. the who uses six pandemic alert levels to inform the world of the extent of the danger. at this time, the alert is level three. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. the actions it takes show what coordination and networking measures are and will be necessary to be better prepared for a situation. the bird flu is a worldwide infectious disease and i would therefore also like to mention that this issue will play a role at the acp summit in vienna next week and we will adopt a resolution on this. commissioner, not only i but you too have been asked about this at many events and in development policy discussions, and we have been asked not only to provide the european union with technical and financial assistance to the developing countries to deal with the issue, but also to ensure that we do not put the collapse of the poultry sector on the backs of the developing countries' economies by providing massive export subsidies, thus destroying and damaging markets in these areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the president of the council referred to the energy charter, saying that president putin had said that in the long term ratification was not out of the question. for me, that means it's not going to happen. that is what the russian foreign minister said in the foreign affairs committee and, most recently, the russian ambassador said at an energy discussion we had. if that is the case, then we must of course be prepared to - is there an alternative? - to adjust the contractual relationship between russia and the european union accordingly. on the one hand, we must insist that there is a symmetry in the opening of markets. there is no way that we can open the markets and the other side can't. we don't really open it all the way. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to support the commission's proposals. the second point that russia has mentioned here is certainly the question of nuclear technologies and the trade in nuclear technology. here too, there will probably have to be an agreement to clarify these questions. thirdly, of course, we have to tell russia that we want to diversify, and we have to also say very clearly that we want to build other, new pipelines to reduce dependence, to design them accordingly and to create alternatives. i think we must say very clearly and unequivocally - especially on the question of energy policy - yes to cooperation with russia, but no dependence on russia.
i have to say, madam president, i am interested to know how the commission is dealing with the problem of the fact that credit card charges are still staggered according to turnover, which is particularly disadvantageous for small and mediumsized enterprises and especially for small tourism businesses. do you think that is justified from a competition point of view?
commissioner, do you think these problems will delay russia's entry into the wto?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report, even in his absence. i must say, however, that we in the committee would have been very pleased if there had been some negotiation between the groups, to save us the need to take up certain differences of opinion in the plenary. i would also have liked to see more consideration given to the opinion of our committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which is consultative. that is why we had to table a relatively large number of amendments for the plenary. i hope that we shall have a very large majority in the vote. the question is very important for the further development of community law and i think a large majority would be appropriate here. where are the differences of opinion now? the rapporteur has already proposed in his original report a relatively restrictive approach to how we should deal with the judgment of the european court of justice. we are, however, more inclined to support the european commission's interpretation that the judgment of the european court of justice allows us to use criminal sanctions in all areas of community law, but not with restrictions, but with the conditions imposed on us by the european court of justice and as the ultima ratio for the enforcement of community law. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. we should not renounce once and for all the opportunity which the european court of justice has given us. we also understand that there are particular concerns about the coherence of criminal law in the member states. this concern was expressed above all by the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior, who do not want to let first pillar ministers corrupt their national criminal justice systems. we are also addressing this concern by means of amendments, as adopted in particular by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we are largely in agreement - and mr lehne has already mentioned this - that there is a need for a case-by-case examination of all the legislation that now needs to be reformed. we have also submitted another one to the court of justice by the european parliament, which was still open. if a new legal basis means the co-decision procedure, then the european parliament will not fail to exercise its full legislative powers. we cannot afford to forego the possibility of co-deciding on these new acts in advance, in the framework of an institutional agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. this cooperation can only take place if we share and make available appropriate data sets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used in the same way as the information provided by the member states. the report has undoubtedly also created the conditions for thinking about how to improve the uniformity of data protection in all our member states. thirdly, it has also created the conditions for databases such as the schengen information system and the visa information system in hinkunft we will have it in a new form to be shared and allow cross-links in the interests of security. this report thus supports the principle of interoperability of databases, which i consider to be a very important quantum leap in the security policy of the future of the european union. the new security package, which we are discussing today in the context of the hague programme, will not be complete until we have also adopted the regulations on the visa information system and the schengen information system ii.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. on the one hand, this report supports the adaptation of the organisational structure of this drug monitoring centre to the enlarged union, which is simply a technical necessity. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. it is not enough for me that a drug monitoring centre can only collect data and then publish it in a colourful document every year. there are many more possibilities, and this report and the rapporteur's proposals go much further. what we need is finally comparable data, more analysis, an evaluation of the various drug policies and a recommendation to the member states, because we can see which strategies are working and which are not. we need to cooperate more closely with other organisations such as the world health organisation or the un, so that duplication and duplication are avoided, and we also need to cooperate with europol to enable drug offences to be linked to drug-related offences. this report gives us the opportunity to at least slightly increase the powers of the drugs monitoring centre. it is a wish that this drug monitoring centre should be given more weight and be able to provide real help to our member states in the fight against drugs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. allow me to offer some constructive advice. use the many tools and sensitivities you have to actually find out what the citizens of europe want. i think the answer will be security, justice, accountability and democracy. security's not bad. in the area of justice - which can only be the result of the latter two areas, namely democracy and control - it fails quite dramatically. i am convinced that the only way you can make a breakthrough is to get away from what has failed so far, to get away from what has not worked: away from the constitution, and towards the basic treaty with subsidiarity, transparency and control. but it's missing a lot. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. something has to change. if that changes, you have a chance!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. jean-claude juncker said at the award ceremony: 'thank god we are also being watched by non-europeans. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political one. the only people who moan about european success are the europeans themselves. i can't really understand it. other neither did i! we should stop talking about a crisis and instead work together on the necessary projects and solutions. mr president of the commission, you are right: nice is not enough. but because nice is too small, we had laeken, and laeken led to the convent. that is why we have already drawn up a new treaty which must be implemented. they are right: the two referendums which ended negatively have plunged us into a crisis which we ourselves have also dragged into. but that's why we've been in the reflection phase for a year now. that is why we want to save the political project constitution. and we're about to have 16 positive ratifications. mr president-in-office of the council, i very clearly expect that the summit will be the starting point for the conclusion of the political project of a new treaty, with no one talking about the death of the political project, but everyone committing to the adoption of this political project, to its conclusion during this parliamentary term and to the continuation of the ratification process. i expect that no one will talk about the crisis in the european union, but that everyone will talk about the political projects, that not only data will be analysed, but that data will be established, projects will be defined, work orders will be issued, timetables will be set and citizens will be involved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. if we increase transparency and if we make plan d concrete, then the political projects will be successfully implemented and the analysis phase will be a thing of the past!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. tomorrow the heads of state and government will meet to extend the period of inaction and confusion. the "thousandth silence" as guy verhofstadt called it, the cat-song of cherry picking, subsidiarity and proportionality, of emergency brakes and core groups from the sandboxes of technocracy - most of it not even translatable. we're gonna have another year of cat music. mr president-in-office, you should present an interim report on the european debate at the end of your presidency in june this year. but the debate is not happening. they have promised us a road map for overcoming the crisis in europe. but you don't have a road map. you promised europe would listen. but you've been in closed circles with handpicked elites, debating with experts behind closed doors, and you've only heard what you wanted to hear. the citizens don't talk about all this. mr president of the commission, after a year of reflection, you come here to answer the question of what is the cause of people's europessimism. and your answer is that it is because of the failed referendums. mr president, you are confusing cause and effect. the failed referendums are the result of europeism, not its cause. the reason is the failure of intergovernmental europe, its massive democratic deficit, its weak legitimacy, its blockage in unanimity and nationalist rivalry. governments have been getting in the way of europe. you want to run europe on a side job. they are not in a position to give a social response to globalisation. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views. europe is disappointing. that is why we need a european democracy. i hope that this insight will also play a role in the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it has already been said that this coming council meeting will not have to take any dramatic decisions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. i am always surprised when some of my british colleagues say: we do not need a constitution, but we need many new members. and some of our polish colleagues - especially on the right - are against the constitution, but ukraine must be a member as soon as possible. it's not gonna happen. there is no majority in the population, no majority in this house, that will say yes to further enlargement unless there are also appropriate changes, including an appropriate capacity of the european union to cope with this enlargement. that should be noted. i am sure that those of you who, like me, are in favour of us starting the process of enlargement will be thinking about how we can make a place for ukraine in the european union. but he must also make it clear that we must first give the european union the strength it needs. it is not important whether it is this constitution or a modified one, but the essential contents of this constitution must be implemented. if this is a consensus and the council is saying this clearly, then it is also a clear and correct signal. i am also very pleased, as rapporteur for croatia, that there is a clear signal to croatia. the country has long deserved to have the negotiations started. i am also very pleased that it is now possible to say clearly to thessaloniki, perhaps even more strongly than in salzburg, that we have an obligation to the balkans, not only in the interests of these countries but also in our own interests. but if we also say clearly and clearly that people will understand that we need to strengthen and reform our institutions accordingly first, then that would be an important signal; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council is not in a position to take a decision on the matter. the partnership with the united states will be followed by the summit with the united states, and you will also have to prepare. we have said time and again that we want and need this partnership. it must be based on shared values. but among these shared values is respect for human rights. that is why guantanamo and the question of the activities of the cia are so important to us that this is on the agenda. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. zeus is to confess to his beloved europa. i made that request six months ago at the beginning of the austrian presidency. the wife at home would have to be blind not to notice that outside the family home, something is happening. lots of pomp, lots of blue light, lots of silver and porcelain, high-profile guests, one big date after another, and now even a meeting with george w. bush. there's a lot to see and do in europe. but what is the role of this europe on the international stage? is she a strong, confident woman who has support, a woman we trust to guide us safely through difficult times? we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. what do we want from this europe? what do we expect from her? we have a pretty clear idea. europe should protect us from poverty, provide us with security, ensure that we do not just live from hand to mouth, but also that we can set aside something in the future, not allow ourselves to be bullied in the global village, and set an example. europe is asked for a great deal, but none of it is entrusted to europe. this is why the eurobarometer is so sceptical. europe cannot at present deliver what the citizens expect of it. the council has given her far too little leeway. the commission is keeping them busy with tasks which are increasingly alienating them from the european citizens. no one understands this europe. what does she do all the time? the essential remains unfinished, at least that's what she conveys. that's why the resentment is growing. europe urgently needs a new master plan with projects close to the citizens. europe must become more mobile, it must develop a profile. this is impossible with the council presidencies changing every six months. one goes, the other comes. it's a "house through" and not a safe home. i know the constitution would be different. but it won't happen in 2007. that is why i am asking you to create clear competences and greater efficiency for europe at the summit. then the way to the constitution will also be cleared by the citizens.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! in view of the problems of integration we are now facing in many member states of the european union, in view of the demographic trends and the enormous problems we are facing with illegal immigration and the related problems of organised crime and smuggling, i welcome your intention to focus on migration at the forthcoming european council. we must be clear about one thing: if we want to avoid conflict in the european union in the long term, we must control the immigration of migrant workers, taking into account the reception possibilities and the integration capacities of our member states. we must finally implement a european asylum policy. i would like to congratulate the presidency of the council on the great preparatory work it has carried out to help refugees quickly, while at the same time preventing labour migration via the asylum route and the abuse of asylum. we must also focus on combating illegal immigration and the phenomenon of smuggling, which, as i said, is part of organized crime. legalisation is not the solution, as we are seeing again in spain. legalization creates a drag with all the dramatic consequences and tragedies. what we need is a comprehensive strategy, which must include: assistance in the countries of origin, information campaigns through the mass media and education also in the countries of origin about the consequences of illegal immigration, and the implementation of a common external border security using the visa information system, the schengen information system and eurodac, so that we achieve one goal, which is to maintain the stability and security of our european union in the long term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union, in my view, is feeding into the fears of the glass man by allowing the transfer of personal data to a third country, the united states, which is not safe in terms of european data protection standards. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. and the proposed taxation of e-mails and sms would, in my view, be a bad idea, because flat rate contracts would require individual records to be kept and personal data to be collected and passed on to the tax authorities. i think that this has not been sufficiently considered in the roure report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although we believe that romania and bulgaria are undoubtedly part of the european family of nations and must also have a european perspective, we believe that it is not to be expected that the two countries will be able to solve their multiple problems in the field of corruption and organised crime in a few months. in particular, with regard to bulgaria, it is a grave mistake to hope that as an eu member we will be able to tackle corruption and organised crime better in our own country. the problems in this area are likely to become more acute and to place a greater burden on the other eu member states. the legitimate concerns and fears of the european citizens have not been taken seriously, and an avalanche of enlargement has simply been launched over the heads of the citizens, creating de facto an automatic enlargement. i cannot agree with that. that is why i did not vote for this resolution.
mr president-in-office of the council! you were right about there being no coupling. on the other hand, croatia is a country that is surrounded, at least in part, by other candidate countries, potential candidates and those who want to become candidates. how far can the accession negotiations with croatia affect this whole area of the western balkans which is in dire need of stabilisation?
the economic data for croatia have been very positive for a long time, so that from an economic point of view accession would have been achieved long ago. the only problem seems to be the slow implementation of eu-relevant legislation, with the legislative proposals having to go to the commission first, which slows down the process. the european union has a duty to help the people of croatia.
mr secretary of state! the european union has repeatedly had the problem, particularly in world political conflicts, of one or other of its members becoming independent and taking a stand against european interests and taking the side of the united states. can we ensure that the european union speaks with one voice, particularly in the iran conflict, and that all eu members are in agreement?
economic partnership agreements are undoubtedly a positive attempt to prevent immigration at its core, and in particular to prevent illegal immigration. in this context, has it been considered to link these agreements with considerations relating to the return of illegal immigrants? is that how you think?
mr president of the council! i would like to welcome you to this place. my question goes something like this: the council is also considering how much more it intends to invest in research and development in this particular area? i am convinced that this type of energy production creates jobs in rural areas and is therefore close to the lisbon strategy. does the presidency have any rough estimates of how many new jobs this will create in rural areas?
it is well known that the production of bio-gas is currently much more expensive than the use of fossil fuels. this is why alternative fuels have been given tax advantages, which have led to annual growth rates of about 26%. will the mandatory blending introduced by the commission not lead to the fact that the oil companies will increasingly resort to cheap suppliers such as brazil, thus putting our european farmers at a disadvantage in the future?
first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the precision of your answers. it's good for you. can you also tell me what you mean by 'progressive' and 'long-term' in this planning and whether other intentions can be envisaged for heavy commercial vehicles as well?
euro 5 is a big step in the right direction. it is also about seeing what percentage of reduction we can get through in what time period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
they have mentioned natura 2000 as one of the possible sources of reforestation strategies. now, we have had the problem on this subject again and again, that a lot of the landowners found themselves with obligations that they were partly left alone with. is there any financial possibility of doing so under the programme or the financial perspective?
austria is known for its clean lakes and rivers. i would therefore like to know how the european provisions compare with those in austria. are there any stricter control measures at union level or in austria?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have rightly discussed this subject of air safety for a very long time. it is no wonder that not only after the events of september 11, 2001, but also because of the experience of other terrorist incidents in airplanes, there was simply a need to come up with a new standard. we had a great controversy in this context, which was about funding - one of the key elements when it comes to creating security - and then asking who should raise the money. however, it would have been very helpful for the whole committee and for all members of parliament if we had had the commission's documentation on a review process on post-9/11 measures at the beginning of the debate, which would have certainly made our discussion easier and given us a lot more scope. it is nevertheless useful to adopt common basic measures in the field of security. this is certainly more transparent than the confrontation with the most varied national approaches to the subject, which may - i am using the conjunction deliberately, although many people probably know what i am talking about - be misused to distort competition or to exclude certain practices. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr el khadraoui has already said that we cannot continue to debate on the basis of air traffic alone who is responsible for the security of major transport infrastructures. we must also develop a financing measure which takes account of all modes of transport in a fair way, so as not to favour certain modes of transport in advance when it comes to financing security measures or to what extent they should be financed by tickets, the public authorities, airlines or other means. the european citizen rightly demands transparency in this area. this is a key requirement. i think the debate on unreliable passengers, which mr matsakis has discussed, is very justified. alcoholic passengers are one aspect, but originally everything in this proposal would have been limited to asylum seekers being sent home or prisoners being transported. the fact that this concept has been extended in the course of the committee's discussions is also urgently needed. i have a very definite position on the sky marshals, i don't think there's a security benefit to having armed forces on board. in some cases, this may simply mean that there is more of a weapon on board for potential terrorists or those who plan or want to commit terrorist acts. the committee of the regions has been a very important step in the right direction. i hope that these user committees will have a positive influence on the further development of the measures.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would first like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to mr cramer for the good cooperation, particularly because this report was very technically demanding and difficult. we have managed to put this report to the vote very quickly and with great precision, and that is a good sign for european railways. the urgency of the matter is relatively clear. mr cramer has already mentioned that there are currently more than 20 different signalling and speed monitoring systems in europe. it costs space on board, it costs money, and it is also a major potential source of error and ultimately a safety problem. there is thus a massive barrier to interoperability which is certainly reducing the competitiveness of the railway sector - as you have also said, mr cramer - particularly in view of the constantly increasing volume of traffic and the much needed shift of traffic from road to rail. i hope that what you hear about the white paper coming out now is just a rumor. the system we are planning is certainly necessary. we've convinced ourselves that the system is working. everything that's been said about it maybe not working or bad or anything else that works is nonsense. it works in practice, it works on passenger trains. it is therefore extremely important that member states develop a rapid conversion and implementation strategy. i would like to take this last opportunity to remind you that it is precisely through ertms that i believe that the social security of railway workers will be higher and that there will be more and more highly qualified jobs. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. we are using ertms as a great opportunity for rail transport and we are doing everything we can to ensure that the transition from road to rail will continue in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the union has long been striving for a more balanced relationship between road and rail, with regulatory provisions on the social and employment treatment of truck drivers and train staff, with incentives and financial injections for rail transport, with tolls and other charges for heavy road transport and last but not least, with technical regulations on intermodality and interoperability. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network, the establishment of a european shipping network. but all in all, we weren't really successful. the scissors are more open. the railway continues to lose to the road in freight traffic. so perhaps we are indeed about to see the end of the dream. today's media reports suggest that the commission is about to change its strategy and abandon the active relocation policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are properly equipped. ertms is the new magic word. it is intended to help train systems become more interoperable with each other, so that perhaps, hopefully also on long journeys, the railway has a chance again. in the cramer report we have worked together to find a common solution, with success, as mr cramer rightly emphasized. we therefore congratulate the rapporteur and the commission on this text and wish the railways all the best for a good and secure future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we can note in the so-called 2004 fraud report that irregularities, and i emphasize again, irregularities, not fraud fraud usually make up a fraction of , are relatively stable at just under 1% of the eu budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there was a reduction in the volume of losses from 2003 to 2004 of almost 50%, from 170 million to 80 million. on the other hand, we regret that the damage in the structural funds has increased from 482 million to 694 million. the decline in the agricultural sector is largely due to the fact that the integrated administration and control system seems to be taking effect. wherever it is applied, positive results are obtained; the more we insist on the application of this inveko system, the more we must of course insist on its application. we note in our report that one old member state, greece, has not yet done so, even seven years after the deadline for implementation. we are of course encouraging the commission to look at the right thing, because these are the uniform procedures that must be applied here. another striking feature is the provision of guidance. everything to do with enlargement is politically sensitive, but we must also be right on the budgetary side. the scale of the alleged irregularities is also worrying, but even worse is the fact that the commission admits that it does not know what the irregularities discovered were, and therefore does not know what to recover and how to recover them - in 90% of cases! the commission is practically blind in this area and we must take precautions. we know that the administrative capacity of the acceding countries is probably still somewhat less, but i would ask parliament and the commission to take this into account in future budgets. not that you have to pour extra water into already full barrels, which must eventually cause them to overflow! last year, in the report on combating fraud, we focused on cigarette smuggling, and we are actually proud that the commission and olaf have done a good job here. the agreement with philip morris has now been signed by 24 countries, including the new countries, with one regrettable exception: the united kingdom. however, we would like - and regret that it has not been able to do so so far - that the commission makes a sensible use of the payments to be made by philip morris, totalling some eur 1 billion. the commission should also make concrete proposals and initiatives for the use of these funds. we estimate that the eu lost some eur 418 million in customs revenue to cigarette smuggling in 2004 increasing trend. we have an area here which we must solve on a european scale. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. we have also included vat fraud for the first time. we estimate that 10% of vat revenue is lost in the member states each year through vat fraud, and i would like to expressly encourage and support the commission in moving forward with the european parliament on this. finally, on the forthcoming reform of olaf: the commission adopted the proposal for a regulation on 24 may but has not yet sent it to parliament, so that the parliamentary procedure cannot be opened. but we are going to propose clear guidelines on this today. for example, parliament will not approve any regulation which in any way restricts its rights. as regards olaf's work, in recent years the priorities have increasingly shifted away from olaf's original main task of investigations towards coordination and platform functions. the extension of coordination activities must in no case be at the expense of investigations, which can have fatal effects on the outside. if the reform is to include any extension of olaf's activities, then the commission and this house must be clear from the outset that this will require additional financial and human resources. we'll have to agree on that at the same time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if anyone is seriously interested in this area - that is, in the protection of the communities' financial interests - i would recommend that he should read what has already been discussed in this house on a similar occasion and, above all, which amendments were tabled in committee before this report and then not adopted. in concrete terms, this is just a small scratch on the surface of the fundamental problems in this union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am thinking of the 5 to 7 billion in tacis and many other areas, such as administration, where money is being wasted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rapporteur himself says that we do not know what kind of irregularity we are dealing with in the enlargement issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has put forward proposals on how to reform olaf. we are far behind in our report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but all these demands were rejected in committee. now people say, yeah, it's great that we're ready. no, we're not far enough ahead. we are dealing with a random investigation, if one is taking place at all. we are dealing with a procedure which is not based on the rule of law, when you pretend to be prosecuting fraud. we are dealing with a very substantial problem in this union, namely that money is simply wasted in many places. most of you know this, but we should not pretend that this report is going to be very enlightening.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. instead of constantly looking for new sources of funding - in the form of new eu taxes, for example - and increasing the spending side, i believe it is high time to step up the fight against fraud and waste. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are properly used. the accumulation of fraud in some eu countries is striking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i do think it is important that we optimise olaf and keep looking for new ways to improve our fight against fraud. but all the changes will do little to achieve the desired results if olaf files are not quickly processed because of the burden on the competent authorities in the countries concerned and if the recovery of funds unduly paid is not rigorously handled. i think we must finally take decisive action here, so that the fight against fraud does not remain a pious wish.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it clear that the austrian members of the epp support the clear position of the federal government on the euratom question and that their vote was in line with the result of the austrian referendum. i regret that mrs niebler's application for leave to appeal on the grounds of ethical reasons has been rejected. the pec delegation is clearly opposed to destructive embryo research.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think the nuclear lobby is trying to lure out billions of dollars for nuclear energy projects by making untenable promises of a clean, safe and environmentally friendly energy solution and by concealing the truth about the costs. the nuclear research budget is seven to eight times the amount spent on renewable energy and energy sources. if the actual costs for example, for the final disposal of nuclear waste and the consequential costs of possible nuclear pollution were taken into account, it would be clear that nuclear energy is not only extremely dangerous but also not profitable. i believe that there should be no new money in nuclear energy, but that this money should be used to develop renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a staunch opponent of nuclear technology and of the production of energy from nuclear technology, it was natural for me to vote against the buzek report in the end. i also wanted to vote against amendment no 24, but i had the impression that the voting machine did not work. i would therefore like to make it clear again that i voted against amendment no 24.
in writing. i would like to explain my abstention from voting on amendments nos 90 and 91 by my explanation of vote. it cannot be that the application of the rules on civil aviation security is adopted initially for all airports situated in the territory of the member states and that gibraltar airport is exempted from this regulation in a supplement. how can we speak of a union when laws which are generally applicable to certain territories suddenly no longer apply? both spain and the united kingdom are members of the european union. i would point out that such disputes must not be carried on the back of the european union and in particular not at the expense of civil aviation safety, which is the subject of this report and which should extend its measures and rules to prevent unlawful interference with civil aviation to protect all passengers at all eu airports.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to explain why i voted against this resolution against racist and homophobic violence. no reasonable person will be in favour of racist or homophobic violence, everyone will condemn it where it really exists. however, it seems to me that in this resolution people who are for their own culture and for their own national identity are too quickly and too easily put under suspicion of racism. it also seems to me that people who defend the traditional christian, european image of the family are too easily suspected of perhaps even welcoming homophobic violence. if this is then confined to individual eu member states, i think that is absolutely unacceptable.
in writing. the epp delegation, like the epp-ed group, spoke out in all relevant resolutions during this and the last year against racist violence and xenophobia, against discrimination against homosexuals and for the highest standards in the field of human rights and non-discrimination. the commission is therefore also in favour of the resolution tabled by mr patrick gaubert on behalf of the epp-ed group. the ppe delegation votes against the joint motion for a resolution by gue/ngl, alde, greens/efa, pse, because these political groups have made no attempt to reach a joint text with the epp-ed group, because such motions for resolutions have taken on an inflationary dimension, this resolution is a purely political document with many errors and generalizations, and the issues of racism and intolerance are merely being exploited to send ideological messages.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. you demanded, "goodbye sadness, a little more joy!" even the germans welcome it, even if we are told that we go to the basement to laugh. but let me answer your music-related innuendo with a literary quote. i do not know what you have just distributed to the important gentlemen in the house, but i would say that i understand the message, but i lack the faith, and you yourself know, of course, that we must beware of joy through repression, because false joy leads to a total loss of reality and then to political depression. that's worse than sadness. what's the balance sheet? we are facing the greatest redistribution in the history of mankind in peacetime. a lot of promises have been made. what moved? you yourself have raised the question of referendums. what happened to it? now we haven't heard anything about it. then there is the question of the european union's capacity to receive, silence, and unfortunately also the question of transparency. you yourself said here on 18 january that the waste of some programmes is regrettable, but there are recipes for that, namely control. this should all be published. the publication of the grant award was the right thing to do. i'll keep quiet about that. i have now put two parliamentary questions to that effect. what do your raiffeisen friends get, what does the orf get, what do the others get? because silence is the opposite of transparency, and without transparency, there is no democracy. there's no answer. shut up, you. shut up, you. shut up, you. shut up, you. shut up, you. shut up, you. silence. through silence there is silence and through silence there is stillness. it can't be. the austrian presidency has also acquired a reputation, as you may have heard, of being called 'la grande bouffe', the big eater. it's not that. true happiness can only come with democracy, control and justice, and let's see where we go with that.
mr president, mr wolfgang schüssel, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if we look back at the last two debates on the presidency of the council, we can only say that the comparison is a sure thing. if we repeatedly stressed the crisis we are in a year ago, if we rejected the outcome of the council presidency by a two-thirds majority six months ago, we are all agreed today that the european union will be more successful and better off after this six-month period than it was at the end of 2005. we are taking stock today, knowing that we cannot do everything in six months, knowing what is unfinished and knowing what work lies ahead of us. but we all agree that the glass is half full, not half empty. the question is: has the presidency of the council succeeded in bringing about a new quality of cooperation with the european parliament and the institutions? the answer is yes, and the evidence is on the table. the high level of participation, the quality of management, the financial perspective, the services directive and, mr schulz, for the austrians, but also for us christian democrats, it was never a question of choosing between neoliberal and social, because we have always been familiar with the social market economy because of our value structure. (applause from the centre) the committees, the financial instruments for external policy, involvement in informal council meetings, the extension of question time and the ministers responsible, the four conferences between the national parliaments, the council, the commission and the european parliament are just some of the facts. our cooperation was successful and should be continued in this style. but i would also like to say that we have always succeeded in putting the community at the centre of our work and in not reducing the european union to the work of government. after this successful cooperation between the institutions, we have also increasingly involved the citizens in this new interaction. i would also like to thank all the ministers, all the officials and, above all, state secretary winkler and eu ambassador woschnagg on behalf of my group and delegation for the excellent cooperation they have had with all the members of this house. (applause from the centre) the other questions croatia, turkey, slovenia, romania and bulgaria also showed that we are once again following the rules more closely and are not so much concerned with embellishments. in the spirit of the world cup, after years of ownership, i say that after the defensive work, the team has found itself. we're back to square one. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council! i would also like to thank the austrian presidency for its large presence here in the european parliament and for the good cooperation with you, your colleagues in the government and all the staff. i would also like to draw particular attention to mr winkler, the secretary of state. he was not only the man for all seasons, but also for all hours of the day and night - especially night time in this plenary session of the european parliament. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. on the economic side, you certainly have a great advantage in the conclusion of the services directive, to which the european parliament has also contributed, as has been stressed on several occasions. i think that there are also some disadvantages, if we look at the financial perspective, for example, that one of the biggest cuts has been made in the european social fund, that there has been no progress on the working time directive, that the targets at the spring summit in terms of employment were so modest that they have already been overtaken by reality. perhaps the council's new working method is to set itself such modest - some might say realistic - objectives, to set the bar so low that it is virtually impossible to stumble over it. there is a negative aspect to the ecological balance, namely the road costs directive. the european parliament had once again presented the presidency with a fine ball. unfortunately, vice-chancellor gorbach did not take up this proposal, and the european parliament's more favourable position towards austria was not transposed by the council. other subjects were completely unheard of. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the austrian presidency was unable to reach agreement on the constitutional question. what has disturbed me a little is that the emphasis given to special events has been almost exclusively on the principle of subsidiarity. we who took part in it now know better what europe should not do. what we still do not know better is what europe can do to really solve its problems. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr chancellor, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. this presidency has undoubtedly set and broken a record: there has never been a presidency that has so vehemently praised itself as this one! if you drove from austria to brussels in those six months, you experienced two very different worlds. the austrian media were full of many, many successes celebrated by the austrian presidency. the situation was certainly very different at union level or in other countries. the show elements were different, with mozart balls being thrown around. the results that should have accompanied this, however, were less exhilarating. let us go back to the constitution for a moment. europe listens should have been the motto, but how can you listen when you are only talking to a few small groups of elites, like the europe cafés. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe needed that more than anything. austria, unfortunately, was content with a light version of the debates. the constitutional critics had the subsidiarity conference as their forum, but otherwise there was not much to report. it's been postponed and postponed. the budget was a success story, as they said in austria. what really happened? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. nuclear research was not affected. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still in the process of being drawn up. there was no effort here to get rid of nuclear weapons, which we desperately needed. mr chancellor schüssel, you say that the european model of life should be promoted. but this is the european social model! we don't need a light version. we need a full-blown one. mozart balls alone are not enough!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. but reality is often different from appearance, mr harbour. (applause from the centre) i would like to thank in particular the staff of the various ministries who have done a tremendous job and have really made a great deal of progress. i hope you can not only retain the best people, but also hire them. mr chancellor, in my first speech i addressed you to the minority question in carinthia. this is a european problem. i am very grateful to you for making a proposal which represents a significant step forward. i hope that it can be implemented and that eventually everyone - including in this state bordering slovenia - will recognise that multilingualism and diversity in europe are an asset and not a disadvantage. the multilingualism and diversity that we have in europe and that we must promote are not in contradiction with the need to promote the constitution and the constitutional process. i am very glad that there is a clear commitment to this. i am in favour of enlargement, but if we want to take further steps towards enlargement, and if some people are already pretending that ukraine will become a member of the european union in the next few years, then we must also ensure that europe is capable of enlargement. those who want this must ensure that we have a constitutional process which also brings with it a clear strengthening of the european union. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of enlargement, and it is the only institution in the european union that has been able to play a decisive role in the process of enlargement. i would like to say a few words about turkey and croatia. i'm very glad that we've started negotiations. it is long overdue for croatia to do so, but as regards turkey, i too, as someone who has always been in favour of opening negotiations with turkey, would like to make a clear statement. as mr schulz has already said, we expect turkey to fulfil all the commitments it has made, including the recognition of cyprus and the opening of its ports and airports. i am of course also in favour of the greek cypriot government, that is to say the government of cyprus, doing everything possible to make the turkish-speaking population a part of a common state and thus of the european union. if both sides, the government in nicosia and the government in ankara, really want to see progress, then it can be made. but turkey must also fulfil all the commitments it has made, and some of the comments made by erdogan would have been better left unsaid. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr chancellor, the austrian presidency of the council was a disaster from the point of view of the austrian opposition parties! they're having a hard time finding hair in their soup. in reality, we have seen this today, things are different. the austrian presidency of the council of the european union is considered by many in europe to be a success story. i think it was a real one! it was a successful working presidency overall, with many important individual achievements and major issues. the financial perspective has been mentioned, the breakthrough in the services directive has been mentioned, and the important message has been repeatedly addressed that the substance of the constitutional treaty should and must have a chance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. you yourself have raised the question of the travel expenses directive. the commission has succeeded in bringing a reasonable european solution to a 15-year dispute over the transit agreement. the same applies to programmes such as marco polo ii, the directive on driving licences, and progress on the railway package and local transport. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but politics in europe is either a laborious search for consensus or a spectacular hot-air action. austria has opted for the first option: small but important steps in and for european everyday life. finland and germany would be well advised to follow this path. we wish them well. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to welcome the report by diana wallis. the investigation into the equitable life assurance society is getting deeper and deeper, and the deeper we dig, the more we have to see how messed up things really are and how much has actually gone wrong at different levels. we will reaffirm in our resolution today that the governments, parliaments and competent authorities in the member states, and in particular in the united kingdom, must give the committee of inquiry greater support in the performance of its task. the principle of loyal cooperation enshrined in the treaties must be respected! the committee of inquiry is expressly allowed to request documents, to call witnesses and to question them, but also to obtain answers to its questions. the answers given by those responsible at the committee of inquiry hearings are certainly not satisfactory at present. in concrete terms, this applies both to the responses of the financial supervisory authority in the united kingdom and to those of the commission. because in the case of the equitable life assurance society, nobody feels responsible or wants to feel responsible. the insurance people are on the hook! imagine the policyholder in cologne or the policyholder in galway, both trying in vain to get information being comforted month by month. if a committee of inquiry is fed with so-called politically correct and legally sound answers, what must happen to the policyholder in cologne or the policyholder in galway, who are also directly affected, whose money is at stake and who may already have reached an old age and have to look after their pension? we can and must do two things: firstly, we must make the best use of our mandate in the committee of inquiry to bring clarity so that the policyholder finally knows where the errors and weaknesses lie. secondly, we must all - and the economic committee in particular - work to ensure that solvency ii will provide greater security for all those involved in the future, so that we will no longer have to ask ourselves in a committee of inquiry whether the fault lies in european legislation, in the implementation by a member state or in the mismanagement of a company.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as you all know, the european union has already taken a whole range of measures to combat terrorism. but one of the most effective measures still needs to be improved, and that is the one that is now being put in place to stop the flow of funds. in the fight against terrorism, we must not only support the competent authorities in combating money laundering, but also take measures to improve the monitoring of electronic payments in so far as they serve to finance terrorism. for this reason, electronic payment transactions must be fully comprehensible to the competent authorities. but we need a practical solution, that is, one which helps the authorities on the one hand, but does not overburden the payment service providers on the other. the commission has already made a number of proposals. one problem was donations. my country, austria, has also been mentioned here. we know that donations are being misused to fund terrorism. but we cannot, in turn, prevent donations to charitable organizations or scientific causes. i therefore support the idea of making these practical proposals available to non-profit organisations and scientific organisations. i also welcome the practicable solution in connection with the raised thresholds. this is also a step forward in the negotiations. i am convinced that we will have a small but important additional instrument to stop the financing of terrorist activities and to further raise security standards in the european union.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs lucas, on her well-balanced report. we in the socialist group have supported them on many points, except for the point of creating a separate system for trading aviation emissions. between 1990 and 2002, co2 emissions from international aviation in the 25 eu member states increased by 60%. in addition, the impact on climate is far greater than its quantity would suggest, due to the level of emissions from aviation. in europe, heavy taxation of fuels is common. air transport fuel, on the other hand, is largely tax-free throughout europe. this has a significant impact on the competitiveness of other modes of transport. long-distance rail traffic is stagnating. the european parliament should strongly support the commission's intention to pursue the introduction of kerosene taxes and to implement them as quickly as possible. the european union must take the lead and set a good example by taking action at regional level at an early stage. the report does not deal only with the tax on kerosene, but also with the massive distortion of competition caused by the tax exemption for air transport. rail transport is taxed and subject to the emissions trading system, which significantly increases the cost of this environmentally friendly mode of transport. emissions trading is not a substitute for the necessary measures to reduce climate impacts, but it has the potential to do so if it is properly organised. we support, as already emphasised, the commission's proposal to integrate aviation into the existing emissions trading system, but we also support paragraph 24 which calls for a pilot phase for a separate system for the period 2008 to 2012.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. finally, a report with a proper critique of the impact of aviation on the climate! i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. all the speakers have mentioned the enormous growth rates in aviation. the rates are so high that their continued growth could wipe out all the savings that other sectors of the economy have made with great effort. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not left behind. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the negative effects of the current situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not possible globally at the moment, but we must act before aviation emissions eat away at our savings in other sectors of the economy. we can't wait any longer!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. illegal immigration to europe and the crime it causes are becoming more and more of a burning issue in the face of true migratory storms. we can only save these illegal immigrants from suffering misery on the way or from living in slave-like conditions in the eu if we do the necessary education in the countries of origin and return the illegal ones back to their countries of origin. that is the imperative of the hour, and we should also take that from the cavada report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking about decisive action against smuggling activities. smugglers now make as much money as drug dealers. the european union has put in place a wealth of measures to combat trafficking, but these measures are not enough. i am therefore pleased that the european union has now entered into negotiations with the united nations and signed an additional protocol which ensures that action is taken in hinkunft to combat trafficking in human beings not only with the european union but also with other countries. i therefore supported the signing of the additional protocol by the european union, because it creates another instrument in the fight against smuggling and thus also against organised crime.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is the second area, which is human trafficking. the european union has also concluded an additional protocol. human trafficking is also one of the great crimes of our time, with millions of dollars being made at the expense of individuals. the european union is taking appropriate measures, but it is not able to tackle the problem on its own. it is therefore necessary to seek cooperation beyond the union. the united nations protocol has given us a new instrument of international law to put in place more appropriate measures than before in the fight against trafficking in human beings, here, through all the states concerned. we are doing this as a humanitarian act on the one hand, and on the other hand we are fighting international organized crime with a very effective additional instrument.
in writing. the debate on the eu budget has so far focused on increasing the budget and finding new sources of revenue. instead of immediately calling for an eu tax, the expenditure structure should be examined. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore need firstly top-level fraud prevention, secondly reducing administrative expenditure, for example by saving a parliamentary seat and a cost-based budget, and thirdly the potential for saving billions in enlargements which our citizens do not want anyway.
the commission has already done so. in the age of innovation, there is a need for continuous development and research, because familiar techniques are quickly becoming obsolete. we cannot remain static, but must constantly innovate. that's a saying we all know. we know that for many years we have lagged far behind the leaders in research and development, the united states and japan. although this is slowly beginning to change, much remains to be done. we need to create a better framework for innovation. for this we need young scientists who are internationally competitive. our low proportion of graduates in engineering and science studies and the brain drain into competitive economies that attract self-directed research should give us cause for reflection, as should the problems facing our universities in retaining qualified teaching staff. we will also have to finally commit ourselves to our small and mediumsized enterprises, because they have the greatest potential for innovation and job creation. these small and mediumsized enterprises are otherwise reducing their research and development activities because they are not able to benefit from our complicated eu funding programmes.
the commissioner, at present, is making huge profits internationally in energy trade, especially in energy imports. there is a discussion at the moment about reinvesting these profits in europe. that means opec is buying up in europe, the russians are buying up in europe, and very soon the chinese may be buying up as well. what do you think will be the future situation with regard to competition? a practical example: gasprom buys major energy companies in europe. what measures will the commission take to ensure the security of energy supply in the future?
the conflict over mr khodorkovsky is, after all, the starting point of the current energy policy situation, as president putin has exerted pressure by nationalising and monopolising the energy sector. my question is: how will bilateral cooperation with russia in the field of energy policy be continued?
we know that iraq is also of immense importance for our economic life, not only the human rights situation, but also the economic situation. what can the community do to increase stability in that country? what community programmes, cooperation programmes can be set up to make iraq more stable and secure?
- i'm not sure. you have given a very detailed account of the situation with regard to russia, and i thank you for that. my question is: do you think, or does the commission think, that russia and other countries in this area can be reliable partners in the future in terms of energy supply? and - you yourself mentioned the figures - to what extent is the european union dependent on russia or ukraine? can you count on reliability here?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are discussing today a subject which concerns our future, and our future is clearly defined by the lisbon agenda: we want new jobs, we want growth, and to achieve this we simply need global markets. we must be able to market our products and services. we are currently experiencing a very intense crisis in the doha negotiations, which are in fact based on tariff reductions, quota reductions, market opening, the singapore issues. i believe that much of our industrial policy is, of course, also decided on the global market. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the countries of central and eastern europe. what about kyoto? have we already carried out all the economic analyses that give us the assurance that the implementation of the kyoto targets will make a very good contribution to growth and the success of the lisbon strategy? the volume of investment available here and the jobs created in europe are in the triple-digit billions. we've been discussing our budget for years, and we've been working very closely. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments. we have discussed the basel ii package, which is now being implemented in europe but not in other parts of the world. we must make sure that we protect our industry, particularly intellectual property, but at the same time use these rights to become more successful internationally. we also had a debate this morning on how we can improve the structure of our industry. the tradition of family farms, which have been invested in for generations and have been creating markets for generations, is of great importance here, and we must not forget in particular small and mediumsized enterprises. this should be important for our future!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the rapporteur has rightly said in her introduction that 'what lasts is good'. the text now before us, and above all what our parliament has been able to contribute and has contributed to, can promote freedom of inland navigation. and we need that free inland waterway! we need sensible and coordinated rules for inland waterway transport if we are to make the flow of transport in europe more environmentally friendly overall, and this is what the commission expressly states in its midterm review. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on inland waterway transport are not applied in the same way. we must improve and bring the route planning - the tens - , the promotion concepts - including marco polo ii - and, last but not least, the technical rules up to date. what lasts, lasts! our group, the european people's party and the european democrats, would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs renate sommer, for her valuable work. we hope for large majorities tomorrow, and we will do our part to achieve them. we'll have a lot of work to do on the network. mr vice-president, you have already mentioned it: naiades is the next legal text with which we must ensure that the opportunities are actually used and that the waterways in europe as a whole can make a substantial and constructive contribution to the management of traffic flows. the important thing here, and especially in naiades, is that we must not only concentrate on western europe, but that we must ensure that the whole european waterway network grows together into a good, sensible and safe unit, especially now that the danube is open again.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have a huge package here, and of that package only a few, albeit very important, items have been left over in recent months. the council has been working on this compromise for six years, and in doing so has obviously largely ignored the problems of aircrew. the pilot's flight hours and the working conditions of the cabin crew were also the open and controversial points in our discussion in the committee. i would like to thank our rapporteur, who has really done a great deal of work to provide a good factual basis. the proposal, however, did not address the problems of shiftwork and fatigue, the physiological and psychological consequences of irregular working hours, which naturally have an impact on safety. the solution which has been found, which now requires a proposal to be submitted within two years, is a compromise. it would have been better if this had been agreed at the outset, but we should be glad that we have reached this compromise, including with the council. the commission is now called upon to make a positive contribution, to take account of these undoubtedly indispensable factors and to come forward with a new proposal. in this context, i am not very happy with the exception for cargo airlines, but in the spirit of compromise i will agree to it, because i hope that the commission will take a responsible approach to the analysis of working hours. a difficult point was, of course, the prohibition of deterioration. the council was not ready to talk. the member states were not able to give in. it is now up to them - and they will be responsible - to decide whether working conditions will improve or deteriorate where they are better than in our proposal, whether they will remain the same and whether it will be possible to finally catch up where working conditions are poor.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. michael ende didn't really finish his "infinite story"; we're much better in this house. the report by mr sommer shows that we are now almost at the same stage as the eu-ops. brian simpson and ulrich stockmann have done a very good job. we both have that to thank for. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the safety of aircraft. but the limited role of the european legislator in all these areas has been rightly pointed out by mr gewalt. it took a while, but now we have a good report, which has been confirmed by many colleagues, and it is the best compromise between the airlines and the unions. the application fully covers the area of flight, duty and rest periods of the cockpit and cabin crew and limits the maximum daily flight duty period to 13 and 11 hours respectively. the industry - enterprises and trade unions - must now make the most of these requirements. the commission is called upon to intensify its work in this area and to ensure that people who go on holiday during these days feel safe when using the air transport.
the commission has already done so. i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mr ulrich stockmann, on his excellent report. it is particularly gratifying that, despite the difficult basic problems, the different interests and the long time, mr stockmann has now finally succeeded in bringing this report to a vote with a clear-cut objective. the eu-ops is an important milestone in the history of aviation safety for the following reasons. european air traffic is continuing to grow and european airspace is one of the most congested in the world. the development of uniform high safety standards is essential to ensure the continued safety of air passengers throughout the community. the blacklist, which was published a few months ago thanks to mrs de veyrac, has already set high standards for airlines, mainly non-european, and now it is necessary to implement correspondingly high safety standards for european airlines. eu-ops relieves pilots from some eu countries of the burden of duty and rest time restrictions imposed by the new framework, which in turn promotes the safety of air passengers. in this respect, the european aviation safety agency (easa) will prepare a medical-scientific study which will serve as a basis for the commission's revision proposals. in my own report i shall deal in detail with easa's tasks and areas of competence. i would like to say at this point that the safety of passengers and also of the entire crew is my top priority and that i will always keep this in mind when preparing the report. ulrich stockmann has already done a great deal to make civil aviation safer. i will try to do my part by having a clear system of allocation of responsibilities between the different air safety agencies and a clear system of who has to follow the instructions of the agencies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the commission for the initiative, because it is time for the commission to deal with the essential issues in the european union, such as the safety standards and the extreme risks that this technology poses, and to realise that the safety standards that currently exist are completely different and in many cases require better control, a so-called peer review or some other method of objective and transparent review. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the commission's, parliament's and the member states' involvement in this area. what is the position on the new strategy, where the council's nuclear working group is de facto the exclusive holder of the powers and treats the other partners we have in the european decision-making process in a way that is no longer appropriate today? we should try to create a balanced situation by taking responsibility today, in the control and transparency that are becoming increasingly necessary in this extremely sensitive area, and not waiting for an accident to happen somewhere and then calling out those responsible and those to blame. we should also take seriously the competition issues, namely what costs are involved in disposal and final storage, and for the safety and security of transport, and what standards are being applied. the european union needs to act on this and i ask everyone to engage in a serious debate, in view of the 50th anniversary of the euratom treaty, and to focus on security and transparency issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the finnish presidency of the council - mr vanhanen, you have shown that again today - is a very objective presidency, perhaps at times with a cold tone, but when i think of the problems you have to solve, it will also be quite hot at times. one of the problems which you and the president of the commission have raised is the question of turkey. you know that we are very serious about opening negotiations with turkey and making progress in those negotiations. but you also know that we are absolutely insisting that turkey comply with its legal obligations. but - and it is very good that commissioner rehn is here - we would like everything to be done in parallel - not linked - to give the turkish population in northern cyprus a chance to give greater weight to its desire to join the european union, and for the cypriot government to do everything possible to open up new avenues, new channels, to establish new trust between the two groups of people. if you can achieve both, that is, turkey's compliance with its legal obligations and progress in cyprus, that would be a very great success! as regards south-eastern europe, i can only confirm that we would also like you to take further steps to show everyone - including the serbs - the way to europe in a very difficult period. thirdly, on russia: it is fitting that you have both the energy issue and russia at the top of your agenda. we have two things that are very important to us: firstly, we need a legally binding framework between russia and the european union on energy issues. if it is not the energy charter - president barroso has announced new initiatives - then it must be another legally binding framework, transparent and valid for both sides. secondly, it is very important that russia should pursue a neighbourhood policy similar to that of europe. we too have our interests in our common neighbours. we make offers, but russia often uses political pressure. i would like you to get moscow to make offers to its neighbours. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have won the world cup, but politically the european union is moving forward again, achieving common successes and having more common objectives. mr president-in-office, be a strong captain of the council team and seek to cooperate more closely with your teammates! for example, cooperation with the european parliament was one of the reasons for the successful austrian presidency of the council. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: cooperation with the european parliament is not the same as cooperation with the national parliament. we are your partners, we are your legislators we are not just your controllers! we are on an equal footing with you, you are our opponent, not the national parliaments. secondly, transparency: make sure that this slogan becomes a legislative reality, because transparency is the prerequisite for eliminating the double game between internal and european politics! make sure that all citizens of the member states know when you are transparent as a legislator! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. thirdly, enlargement: trust is only built if the rules are respected and if negotiations are conducted consistently. if the ankara protocol is not implemented, the accession negotiations with turkey will have to be suspended. follow the example of the enlargement of the euro, follow the example of the enlargement debates of the last six months! i would therefore ask you, mr president of the commission, to clarify your comments on the conditions for enlargement. it may be formally correct, but politically it has created confusion. if we say that nice is not enough, then we must make it clear that we need a new constitutional treaty before the next big step in enlargement, i.e. to croatia. in conclusion, mr president of the council, please ensure that the services directive, the working time directive, television without frontiers and crossborder payments are implemented.
in writing. there is no doubt that we can only fight organised crime and criminal tourism effectively by increasing crossborder police cooperation. in this context, the schengen information system seems to be proving its worth in the everyday police life, and because of its speed, many calls for tender are still only made in the sis and not via interpol. on the other hand, we now have a large number of police cooperation projects: schengen, europol, eurodac, the cis, a variety of bilateral forms of cooperation and now also the prüm treaty. the question is whether we have not now reached a point where there is some unnecessary overlap and, on the other hand, whether we are not losing sight of the situation. in any case, we must also ensure that the protection of personal data is not compromised.
in writing. i am in favour of compromise motion no 1. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i take this request, among other things, as a sign that all parties have a very special need for air safety. the new rules on flight and rest periods are a milestone in aviation safety and ensure that the safety of both passengers and crew is significantly improved. the creation of uniform standards in all european countries benefits not only passengers but also the entire crew. this will make it possible to travel with the same safety standards despite the constant increase in air traffic.
in writing. although the nuclear industry has been looking for solutions to radioactive waste for five decades, we are still at the beginning. nuclear waste is being transported across europe in millions of tonnes of taxpayer-funded transport, which carries a high risk of breakdown and is an ideal target for terrorist attacks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. we are only burdening future generations with the potential for danger from these ticking time bombs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the effects of the nuclear accident. in the next few years, taxpayers will have to invest some 500 billion euros in the decommissioning of reactors currently in operation in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the effects of nuclear power. it is high time that the billions of dollars of subsidies that are being used to maintain the nuclear industry were stopped.
the commission has already done so. the committee has set out with the great ambition of collecting facts. the committee has worked hard. there have been over 26 hearings, a visit to the usa and close cooperation with the council of europe and the commission, also here in the house. did you learn anything new? it must be noted that the results have remained extremely meagre. this is good because it has proved that there have been no or only isolated violations. i was all the more surprised when i finally had to read the report. this report was one-sided, tendentious and did not reflect what was actually being brought to light in the committee. i ask you on the other side of the house why you refused to include in the vote in committee what de vries and solana actually found, namely that there is no evidence whatsoever. why did you refuse to admit that no evidence of the existence of secret prisons has been found so far? why did you refuse to record what bellinger said in the us? why did you refuse to admit that no torture has been used by the united states, as has been established in the united states? tomorrow the european people's party will make another attempt to balance the report and to write in what was actually the result of the committee. the test for you is whether you will agree with what is fact and what has been said in committee, whether you want a broad majority in favour, or whether you want to leave it as it is that the report is one-sided and biased and does not reflect the facts which were actually the outcome of the committee hearings.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. those who supported this committee and those who now support the report are often accused of being anti-american. but is the supreme court in the united states of america anti-american just because it pushes for the rule of law, especially in the case of guantanamo? in america itself, are all those anti-american who see that the fight against terrorism is conducted according to the principles of the rule of law? no, i don't think you can say that. secondly, they will say: yes, but you are undermining the fight against terrorism. the fight against terrorism, to which we are committed, needs broad support, including in the population, in europe. if we are to fight this battle, we need the support of the people, who are also interested in the rule of law. we must explicitly pursue this rule of law as an essential element of the european union, and that is why commissioner frattini is right every time he points out this point. third, who do you want to punish? it's not about punishing anyone. let's be honest here. after 9/11, when america was hit by this terrible attack and terrorist activity, maybe you were a little too relaxed. in various european countries, people believed that they had to act quickly, that they had to support the americans. i understand that too. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism, and we must be able to do so in a way that is consistent with the principles of the european union. and one of the main purposes of this committee is to ensure that the fight against terrorism can be carried on effectively and in accordance with the rule of law in the future.
i thank you, madam minister, for the very precise answer you have given me. the translation was also very understandable in german. i, as an austrian, would also like to wish you all the best for your presidency. i have one more question: can you tell me more about the cost-benefit ratio and the cost-benefit calculations that these working parties are now making? how will you ensure that the european parliament is also kept informed of the negotiations and involved in them?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the western balkans, as you know, was one of the major issues for the austrian presidency of the council. will the finnish presidency pursue this issue with the same enthusiasm as austria? what is your view on the question of the union's capacity to receive? will finland also come forward with concrete measures and support the commission in its report?
as you are well aware, madam minister, the maintenance of internal security and the rule of law in kosovo is a not insignificant problem in the process of stabilisation and also in the process of granting a new status. what assistance will you provide under your presidency to the western balkans, and in particular to kosovo, to enable them to develop standards of internal security and justice sufficient to ensure stability in the region as a whole?
we had the discussion with the commission this morning on palestine and the palestinian hostage-taking. what further action does the council presidency intend to take in view of the situation in the middle east, palestine and israel?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you have spoken of drawing up common rules for an immigration policy. they know that there is some competence of the member states and some competence of the union. will you maintain the line that it will be up to the member states in future to determine how many and which workers can move in order to integrate into the labour market and not to disrupt it?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are currently considering in regional policy how we can abolish the so-called 'benefit tourism' because it is causing too many jobs to be lost.
madam president of the council! the dollar's parity is of course also due to the fact that europe buys oil and gas in dollars and that this is of course an advantage for european consumers. do you think that oil prices in this area are subject to speculation or that it's due to currency?
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the members speaking here today come from different countries and from different political groups. but we all agree that this region, which is in danger of becoming a black hole in this european integration, must be brought closer to the european union. we know very well what the problems are there. we know the nationalism and the narrow-mindedness, but we also know the urge, especially of young people, to come to this europe and to conform to european standards. it is not only in the interest of these people, but in our own interest, that this connection can be found. we therefore very much hope that the finnish presidency will continue what the austrian presidency did not start but has greatly intensified. we are also counting on you, commissioner frattini, who has shown a great deal of knowledge and willingness. we know from our travels to these countries how much of what you have said has been received positively, namely that you are making progress on this visa issue. i know that it is the home ministers who are blocking the way. but what mrs pack has just said is true: those who are planning to do bad things will come to the european union anyway. let's be honest, they sneak in a visa or they come in by other means without a visa to the european union. but those who are well-meaning, who want to study, who want to educate themselves, who want to invest, who want to make economic contacts, who want to be politically active, have to bear the shame of struggling for days, weeks or even months to get a visa. i know there are certain conditions that must be met. countries must also ensure that take-back obligations and other criteria are met. but i really ask you both to work towards giving the countries, and above all the young people, the chance to get to know europe, to get to know european standards, so that this process of joining the european union is also made easier. i hope that you will both be very active in this direction, not only helping the countries but also helping us to build a common europe with the youth of the balkans and south-east europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. time to deliver is the motto of the 16th international aids conference, which opens in toronto on 13 august 2006. the commission has already expressed its disappointment that the international players and the member states lack the political will to provide the necessary financial resources. the 2006 unaids report shows that all countries that have made a huge effort to prevent aids are succeeding. but it also shows that there are massive weaknesses in preventing and controlling hiv/aids. one of the most worrying points of this report is that hiv prevention programmes are not only too weak, but where they exist, they fail to reach the groups most at risk. there is still not enough effort to inform young people. given that we are dealing with the largest generation of young people ever, and that young people are more at risk of infection than other age groups, this is really very worrying. five years ago, 189 countries agreed to the declaration of commitment on hiv/aids. it was a unanimous decision - which is rare enough - to take action against the huge challenge that hiv/aids poses to human development. we know -- and this has been said before -- what needs to be done to combat rising infection rates, to stop further spread and to treat people who are sick. but the necessary political will is clearly lacking, and that is why in our resolution, we, along with many representatives of civil society worldwide, criticise the weak and rather vague results of the high-level meeting in new york at the end of may/beginning of june. we call on the international community to use the international conference in toronto to formulate clear and concrete demands and objectives.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr frithjof schmidt, on his very successful and very specific way of putting this matter to the vote. although the subject has been addressed by the commission and parliament on several occasions, there is a continuing need for action if fair trade is to continue to develop efficiently and successfully. the key is to establish core standards and criteria for the market to develop. however, in this young sector, it must be borne in mind that premature directives always carry the risk of schematic harmonisation and over-regulation. europe is the largest market for fair trade products, with 60-70% of total sales, and i believe that there is still room for further growth. in this respect, i am particularly concerned that municipalities, cities, counties and other local authorities are constantly reminded and encouraged to take fair trade products into account in their tenders and then also to use them at various events and the like. the low production diversity of fair trade products often leaves the customer unsure whether the product labelled as fair trade is actually fair trade. the larger this market becomes, the greater this uncertainty becomes. that is why we may have to think about a european fair trade logo in the future. for producers of fair trade products, i call for a price structure that ensures their survival, fair production conditions and compliance with environmental standards in the interests of sustainable development. fair trade must be inseparable from core labour standards. if we succeed in creating a positive framework for the development and promotion of fair trade, we europeans can play a very important leading role in this area.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to convey my congratulations to the rapporteur and to the author of the opinion. it's a very good report. some speakers, who seem not to have read the report, are making speeches that they have borrowed from other political forums. whether you write fair trade in capital letters or in lower case letters, it is very important to me to point out that the fair trade label can be a model for the international world market if the conditions are right. i wonder why there is so much fear in this house of fairness in world trade. we would be spared much of the development and migration debate if the world trade system were fairer. we spoke to the acp businessmen, from the african, caribbean and pacific countries, when a parliamentary meeting was held in vienna two weeks ago. the representatives of these small businesses told us how important this 'fair trade' label is in their region. you also said that it would be a good example and a solution to the problem in your region if international trade in general were to move more in this direction. it was also pointed out that fair trade production has a huge impact on poverty reduction in general, but on women's lives in particular. it is important that this be made clear, and i hope that we will adopt the rapporteur's report unchanged in order to actively support both the 'fair trade' label and fair trade.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, the situation in zimbabwe is drastic, dramatic and catastrophic. however, there have been no innovations. it would therefore be quite possible to replace this item in this sitting with the transnistria item, since a referendum is due to take place in transnistria on 7 september, which could dramatically worsen the situation. it is true that some colleagues are arguing that this is not just a human rights issue, but the situation in transnistria is also a human rights issue, namely for the people who live there in catastrophic circumstances. so i would like to request that we replace zimbabwe with transnistria this time. if it is possible and if you agree, mr president, the chairman of the delegation responsible could also explain the reasons for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe's reputation is not really good among the people of europe. 'all the bad comes from brussels' has become a buzzword. in this way, there is a danger that the citizens will once again misunderstand our intentions. taxation and eu are buzzwords that can almost only be interpreted and misunderstood to mean that europe, the eu, wants to burden citizens once again. the fact that the riis-jørgensen report is about something quite different has been heard and explained in most of the contributions. but some have also argued that this is again just a matter of putting a hand in the pockets of the europeans. it is not surprising that in times of domestic political turmoil, politicians - and especially the opposition - cannot resist the temptation to make a statement with anti-eu slogans. in my country, austria, there are national elections in four weeks' time. it's about power, and some people aren't picky. our main opposition party, the social democratic party, is putting up a large sign saying that the german government, under chancellor schüssel, wants to introduce a nationwide toll on cars. it doesn't bother me that this isn't true. you just try. and anti-european slogans may be a good way to score. therefore, from this point of view: riis-jørgensen is a useful, more environmentally friendly vehicle taxation throughout europe. that's what it's all about. that is true.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i was caught in flames myself this year on my holiday in chalkidiki. i saw 2,000 people struggling to breathe, to get air. you ask yourself in such a situation: what could i have done better before? first of all, of course, i would like to thank the emergency services, who worked promptly and quickly and with full commitment, but also the greek government, which organised this very well and, with the help of the navy, saved over a thousand people. i think it's important in a case like this to improve communication. i remember trying to dial 911. you get confused with the numbers when you're panicking. so it would certainly be good to have some automation here. i think it is also important that we in europe have a civil protection force which can work together in such disasters to tackle the problems and try to get the situation under control as quickly and as efficiently as possible. this strategy for natural disasters is a key challenge. the cooperation not only of the military, the emergency services, the fire brigade and the police, but of all the units that have responsibility here, needs a suitable communication platform so that they can help each other quickly and efficiently. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. i had to call the austrian press office from greece to find out how big the disaster really was. it was very interesting to see that the austrian headquarters quickly contacted the greeks and that it was therefore possible for the navy to save many lives.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the risk that a prolonged suspension of the doha negotiations could lead to a multiplication of bilateral free trade agreements is real. the poorest countries in the world are certainly the ones suffering from this development, but it is also becoming increasingly difficult to enforce the interests of workers. our ambitious goal of achieving an environmentally and socially sustainable global economy is just around the corner. since the 1970s, the industrialized countries have committed themselves to spending 0.7% of their gross national product on development cooperation. in 2005, we were at a meagre 0.33%. now, a kind of global marshall plan could be a new initiative for both sides to help the world's really poorest countries to eradicate poverty by building fair market opportunities on the one hand and avoiding eco- and social dumping on the other.
i have to say, madam president, it is shocking that one in three women worldwide will be a victim of violence in her lifetime. let me make a few comments on this. in the area of youth violence, it is not acceptable that young people can take up arms, commit assault and worse, and that party drugs and other drugs circulate among young people. we therefore need to train our teachers to prevent violence, theft, vandalism and drug trafficking. another area where violence is promoted is the internet. the internet, in particular, not only provides perverts with the opportunity to contact potential victims, but it also provides detailed instructions for violence. i think we need to tighten up the law enforcement there. finally, i must address the violence that exists in the area of immigrant society. people coming from cultures with a completely different, archaic attitude to violence, believe that they can also express their increased willingness to use violence within the eu. the aim here is to prevent the influx of violent elements and to make non-violence the goal of integration.
the commission has already done so. we have already heard today that daphne is the most important programme against violence. that's why it's even more important that this program is separate from the anti-drug program. such a merger would certainly have led to more misunderstanding and incomprehension of the european union, especially among those who are involved. i'm glad that won't be the case. this successful programme must be continued in the most visible and comprehensible way possible in response to the rising violence. separation is helpful for this very purpose. the doubling of the budget is also welcome and certainly necessary, because we have considerably broadened the range of objectives and actions. i would like to mention in particular the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially trafficking in children and women, which requires a great deal of attention and a great deal of work, especially since we need to expand the networks and also need the appropriate financial resources. i therefore strongly support mrs gröner's proposal to extend cooperation projects to third countries in the fight against trafficking in human beings, because it is important to cooperate with the countries of origin. daphne is still a drop in the bucket. the fight against violence must be intensified, particularly in the member states, and must also be continued by law. i would also like to refer to the guiding principle, which was implemented in austria a long time ago and has been adopted in many other countries, that violent people must leave their homes. i would also like to mention the anti-stalking law that is now in place in austria, which is intended to combat psychological violence. because it's not being taken seriously yet! (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 2 of the rules of procedure, which states that members are bound by their conscience. i cannot understand why you, as president, have been speaking for so long in the debate of a colleague - and moreover of your group - who has been looking for a common position. the european parliament is not designed to allow group discussions between the voting and the final vote, let alone by members who are obviously unable to form their own opinions. i also find it unusual - i do not know the rule of procedure, but you will find out - that you did not allow a point to be raised on the rules of procedure. i would like to point out that the minutes will contain your speech and that of mrs sommer in full. i would also point out that you have conducted this vote in a very partisan manner and not in a manner worthy of a president of this house. that is also to be noted in the minutes. i think you have shown that this parliament is more like a karaoke parliament and that it pretends to follow democratic rules, but that not every member is equal before the law and is treated equally here. if it had been another member from another group, mr president, you would have - as i know you very well, mr friedrich - immediately withdrawn his speech. you didn't even give it to me.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you said that the national allocation plans were only delivered by nine or - if ireland has already delivered them, as mrs doyle claims - by ten countries, six of which by the end of june. we're late for the meeting. this is particularly worrying in this area because we have seen emissions increase again in recent years, especially in the old member states. what can the commission, the european council and the council presidency do to put real pressure on this, not just to put words to resolutions but to put them into practice? my second point concerns the content of these national action plans. the question is: how can the commission, how can the european council ensure that the national action plans are rigorous, that our member states are prevented from not complying with the requirements of the kyoto protocol, from not complying with our own laws or from buying themselves off the hook?
illegal immigration should be curbed, that is not a question. but the example of mr medina ortega in particular shows the practices in his own country where national governments are sending the wrong signal by so-called legalising illegal immigrants. does the commission see any possibilities here and does it intend to send out signals to stop such measures? in the end, these illegal immigrants end up in all the other member states of the union.
plans for low-cost hydrogen-powered cars have been in the works for years. some manufacturers are now able to offer hybrid cars at the same price as conventional cars. what concrete measures are the eu taking to promote such alternatives in order to be more independent of us oil policy and also of the oil-producing countries?
one of our objectives is to increase the european union's energy independence somewhat. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector. what specific forms of renewable energy will you be promoting in the near future through targeted measures and to what extent? can you put a number on that?
we all don't want to live in a world where everything is forbidden, but i think that in smoking, especially in passive smoking, we are dealing with a phenomenon where we harm others by our own active actions. the european restaurants and restaurants have themselves undertaken to designate certain areas of their premises as smoke-free. but this is only a voluntary commitment. can you imagine a european regulation requiring certain parts to be smoke-free and having this controlled, because the controls vary widely from one member state to another?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when large firms go bankrupt, many small firms often do not get their bills paid. in such a case, could you imagine the european investment fund providing a default guarantee or a loan to replace equity capital, at least for a certain period of time?
if we look at the employment statistics at the moment, it is clear that in all the developed industrial countries the first and second sectors, agriculture and industry, and also the service sector, are in serious decline. if the commission claims to be pursuing a strategy for jobs and growth, would it not be more sensible to rely more heavily on the services sector, which i believe is the future?
do you think it would be possible to have the commission's observatory in vienna regularly monitor and study the situation of religious minorities?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking mr cornillet, whose initiative is responsible for this important debate today and the adoption of a resolution tomorrow. he began by stating the world health organization's definition of what constitutes counterfeit medicines. i think this is very important because we are easily drawn into a debate on this subject, where some people think it is a yes or no question of generics. he has made it clear by his definition and by his position that counterfeiting can affect both patented and generic medicines. in developed countries - and this has already been said - the counterfeiting of so-called lifestyle drugs is predominant, and we can all say that we have probably deleted thousands of spam emails in our e-mails, where drugs are offered at low to very low prices. in developing countries, counterfeit medicines are used to treat diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, or hiv-aids. sometimes counterfeit medicines for simple ailments, such as coughing, cause thousands of deaths because they have been adulterated with toxic chemicals commonly used in products such as antifreeze. according to the world health organization, 30 people died in cambodia in 1999 after taking counterfeit anti-malarial drugs. there is a list of such tragic cases, and it is worth mentioning that there is a large number of cases that are not reported because there are no statistics on the problem of these criminal schemes. all regions of the world are affected by this problem, but developing countries are, of course, the main victims. once again, poverty and lack of access to health services are the reasons. when people cannot afford the medicines they need, they try to get them informally and cheaply. therefore, without effective health services and affordable medicines, there is no real way to combat this phenomenon. the measures to strengthen intellectual property rights are good and can be part of the strategy, but they do not tackle the root of the problem. it is important - and i thank commissioner verheugen for making this point so firmly and concretely - that we help the countries concerned to build up their capacity to produce safe medicines in their own country and to import safe medicines into their own country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, this afternoon we discussed a smoke-free europe. in the field of 'mental health', however, action by the commission and europe as a whole is even more necessary. in this context, i would like to thank you for taking up this subject and also to thank our rapporteur, john bowis, who has dealt with this subject and has produced an excellent report. i think one of the main problems with mental health is this taboo that we find in all societies, and we should ask ourselves why this is. there are many reasons for this, and i will just highlight a few. firstly, i think it is the fear of each of us that we might find ourselves in such a situation - especially when we think of the age we are about to enter. second, the mind and the soul are something deeply human, and we're here in a realm that is fundamentally human. and third, we're also at the end of our cherished mechanistic interpretations of our environment, because we're here in a realm where they don't work. we are dealing with a phenomenon which is not only very damaging to the individual but also to society as a whole. i've picked out some numbers that are very alarming. according to a study by the german employees' health insurance fund, the number of mental illnesses at work increased by 70% between 1997 and 2004. in contrast to the trend of declining sickness absences, the number of absences for mental reasons increased by more than two thirds over the same period. 10% of all days off in the european economy are now due to mental stress. the world health organization writes: if the three greatest human afflictions were pneumonia, diarrhea, and child mortality in 1990, the order of those in 2020 will be heart attack, depression, anxiety, and traffic accidents. if we look at the productivity losses, we are in the billions. for the eu-15 the old member states there are studies which show that the deficits amounted to eur 265 billion that is to say, around 3-4% of the community's gdp . it is therefore very justified for europe as a whole to ask: what can we do together? we must of course bear in mind that the member states are very suspicious of their powers in this area. i believe that the european added value through action is extremely important. john bowis has put this very well in his report. think of best practice models, think of extended data and extended research and development! let us think in terms of target groups, above all, so that we can find a solution here, so that the european engine can keep running and the plug stays in!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i am very pleased that the oral question today has given us the opportunity to learn at least some of the progress made. i would have hoped that our debate, which is taking place at a late hour, would have been rewarded by the fact that we could have received more concrete information from the commission on the state of the commission's thinking. obviously it is not yet, but i hope it will be in the near future. i think that both this parliament and the council of ministers, but also many others - i myself was able to attend a conference organised by the austrian presidency together with the commission, where i saw how much the practitioners, the academic world, the business community, the consumer organisations are interested here - have very high, very contradictory expectations and we all depend on the commission to give us some clarity on how to proceed. mr lehne has already mentioned this: there is a very strong consensus on the fundamental issues, certainly also on the fact that the acquis has now been introduced in the field of consumer protection and that an attempt is being made to harmonize it a little. i have often been a rapporteur on consumer protection issues myself and i know the contradictions that have naturally built up over time. i would like to say that if we leave too much of the work to the experts and not to the politicians, we must remember that not everything that the experts consider to be a contradiction is a contradiction, but that is often called political progress, which we have been able to achieve thanks to changes in attitudes and majority relations, including in this house. there is no doubt and this was one of the main outcomes of the vienna conference that the business-to-business sector must also be addressed; of course, he cannot be excluded. i would like to say that, of course, there are very wide-ranging doubts about everything that goes beyond this narrow area of treaty law - we are talking about a european civil code - which we must address and which we cannot ignore. this is certainly the case with regard to the competence, and it is also the case with regard to the question of acceptance by the population, the fact that we have legal systems rooted in tradition, particularly civil law, a system of law developed over many years, which we would be lacking in a 26th or, we will say, in the future, 28th system. i wonder how we can make civil law if we cannot build on a developed case law in this area, how we can create precise rules that are acceptable to all. i'm afraid we're just going to have very general statements that don't really help us. i hope we can reach an agreement on the resolution. it is particularly paragraph 6 that we do not agree with, and i hope that we can find a formulation which makes clear the broad consensus that we have on this issue in general, also on this particular matter.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we look back at the history of this region, we can see that yugoslavia has been the scene of some disastrous events, including milošević's activities in kosovo, which have led us to have to resolve this difficult and important question for europe. the west, and the european union in particular, has not tolerated the fact that milošević has been harassing, expelling and killing the population, especially the albanian-speaking population. but it also means that we have fought for values in this region, values which we must now also defend! i hope that the council will be very clear about its commitment to these values and will insist on their observance. what are these values: are these human rights, are these minority rights? it is - if i may say so - above all the right to a homeland, which all people who have a homeland in kosovo must be able to exercise in all its aspects, not only in their daily lives and in their survival, but also in the cultural and religious life, which is deeply rooted in this region, especially for the serbian population. does this life have to take place in a separate state of kosovo? - yes or no? i don't think there is an optimal solution. perhaps it would be optimal if we could all live together in a europe without state borders and authorities. i doubt that's realistic. so this is a really serious thought that we have to face here. i think that even for serbia and the serbian population as a whole, there would be no solution if there were not a state entity in kosovo which, as i have already said, fully guarantees human rights and minority rights. the independence of kosovo must therefore be clearly linked to conditions and european standards, i hope that the council will make a clear insistence on this in all future discussions. we would be better off if the albanian majority had already shown in recent months that it fully respects the rights of minorities - and this is particularly the case for the serbian population - in full. some of that has happened, some of it hasn't. we must therefore insist that this is fully respected in the process of independence. the european union is the first to be called upon to do so. for those of us who have recently been in kosovo, it was actually very gratifying to hear many representatives of the albanian majority speak of a limited sovereignty which must also be accepted by the albanian majority, especially in the first phase. by whom can this sovereignty be limited? certainly not by serbia, in the interests of serbia and the serbs perhaps, but above all by the european union. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the european union will have to play a major role in the legal system, in the field of security, particularly police, but also, of course, in military security. the commission's role is to organise how it plays this role. this is the task of the council and, of course, of the commission's colleagues. it would be bad if europe were to have two or more voices in this region. no, we need a single voice in this region, which will stand up for human rights, for the rights of minorities in a future independent kosovo, so that the limitation of sovereignty can be lifted if kosovo and the majority there behave accordingly. the last point: serbia is certainly having a hard time dealing with the fact that after the independence of montenegro, now kosovo too! but if serbia receives the support of the european union, then a new serbia can emerge from this, which will be a valuable partner for all the members of the european union. i would therefore ask you, madam president-in-office, to do everything possible to help serbia, together with the commission and the european parliament, to overcome this difficult period. it will not be overcome by giving kosovo a formal structure within serbia itself. it will be overcome by two independent states living together in friendship and peace.
mr president, the council of ministers! i would like to turn your attention to chapter 7 - the area of law, freedom and security - because the rule of law, the freedom of citizens and internal security are simply essential factors for the stability of a country and a prerequisite for economic investment, which leads to economic development and also social security. in albania, the development has been similar to that in other countries undergoing a process of transformation. the structures of organised crime have been built up more quickly and efficiently than the structures of the state. the effects of this accelerated development of organised crime and its structures are felt throughout europe. albania is a country of origin and transit for international criminal organizations in the field of drugs, human trafficking, money laundering and, therefore, the financing of terrorism. because this is the case and because we are feeling the effects, it is in our mutual interest to engage with albania together. the berisha government - and i can tell you from my own experience - is active. it has a priority programme in the field of internal security and it makes use of cooperation with europe, in police cooperation, for example, with pameca, in projects in the field of customs and justice at parliamentary level, and in particular also the support of the stability pact for south-eastern europe with the special coordinator erhard busek. progress is being made, but the problems are still enormous, as are the challenges. this stabilisation and association agreement is a milestone for albania on the road to european standards, a political signal, but also concrete aid and cooperation. it is now up to albania to implement the full content of the commitments contained in this agreement. i hope that albania will take this opportunity to improve the justice system, to train judges and prosecutors, to improve law enforcement and prosecution, to improve border control at sea and on land, and to improve police cooperation. i hope that cooperation between the union and south-eastern europe will also be intensified. what i particularly want is for albania to participate in the expansion of the seci centre in bucharest. it is a police cooperation centre which could create something like europol for south-east europe, an opportunity to combat organised crime. the agreements and their implementation are a great challenge and an opportunity for albania, but also for us, for the whole european union.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i welcome the conclusion of this stabilisation and association agreement between albania and the european union. it is in the european union's absolute interest to help countries like albania achieve greater political, social and economic stability. the fact that albania is a neighbour of greece, a member of the eu, should not be overlooked. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. the albanian economy faces major challenges despite reforms already undertaken. agriculture and related sectors play a special role in this. agriculture still accounts for a significant share of gdp at 24%. many albanians live on subsistence farming and few products are exported. the productivity of many farms is not competitive. it is therefore very important that standards for veterinary controls, plant health, animal identification and registration are improved and respected, especially for products that can be exported. all measures aimed at the development of agriculture and the countryside should therefore be supported. particular attention must also be paid to structural change and the problem of migration in rural areas. in conclusion, i would like to say that i believe that the instrument of the stabilisation and association agreements is a good and appropriate instrument for bringing countries such as albania closer to the european union and its values.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the peneda/de rossa report because the european social model can only be realised if we reduce the number of our unemployed and those living below the poverty line. we must, among other things, take sustained action against social cuts and wage dumping. in particular, we must also realise that a social model cannot be built on parttime work and low wages. that is why we need more full-time employment and high-level minimum standards across europe. it is precisely those countries with a strong social network, such as austria, that are reaching the limits of their financiability, which is why strict adherence to the transition periods is vital for the labour market, for the labour force in the eu's eastward enlargement, for the social model and for the workers in the country concerned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also voted against the bowis report because we really need not be surprised by the increase in mental illness. the pressures of work and school are increasing all the time, and this stress is keeping us from performing to our full potential. the improvement of psychoactive drugs can at best combat the symptoms, but not the causes. it will be more helpful to raise the self-esteem of the people of europe by conveying our real, our real, our christian core values. those who are deeply rooted in family, patriotism, and national identity are certainly less prone to mental illness.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i would like to put the security of israel and the interest of europe in that security at the centre of my remarks. our history, our terrible, tragic, catastrophic history in europe, obliges us to stand up for the security of israel. but what does security mean for israel? first, israel needs neighbours who are secure themselves, who can concentrate on economic and social development in their own country, who are not dependent on their neighbours, who are not occupied and who do not have to suffer blockades. we therefore need an independent lebanon, not dependent on syria, not under military occupation and not threatened by a blockade. secondly, if israel is to have security, which is our aim, then the un resolutions must finally be implemented, especially the first un resolution which led to the creation of israel, but which also provides for the creation of a palestinian state. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and to help the people of the region to be able to live in peace and security. i would like to quote gideon levy of the israeli newspaper ha'aretz who said: 'the cancer that threatens us more than all terrorism is the occupation of a foreign country and its people.' many other israelis today make a similar point. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. we must reach a negotiating position so that israel's security is guaranteed in the long term. neither wars and violence which provoke counter-violence achieve their aims - as the recent war in lebanon has shown - nor unilateral withdrawal, especially if it is not followed by military or peace-keeping measures to prevent further attacks. negotiation means having conversations. when you're having conversations, you recognize your partner. so we should not talk too much about conditions, especially if they are one-sided. we are right to demand that hamas recognize israel within the 1967 borders. we must also demand that israel recognize its 1967 borders. or we say from the outset: sit down, talk about it, starting with the un resolution that provides for this, and then you have to talk about corrections and so on. in this sense, there can only be a peace process based on negotiations. if i may correct one point, mr president-in-office of the council, it is not really a return to a peace process, but rather a move towards a peace process, because there has not yet been a truly comprehensive and promising peace process. i would like to thank both of you, commissioner, mr president of the council, because in the last few weeks, through your work and your statements, you have helped us to get a more realistic picture and now we can really start to see europe playing a major role in bringing about a lasting peace process, which we urgently need for the security of israel, but also for the whole region. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for a moment i felt liberated when our esteemed colleague graham watson suggested that we should look forward and not backward. but the cruel and senseless deaths in this cruel and senseless war force us to ask: could this war have been avoided? this question is also addressed to europe. in march 2005, this parliament condemned hezbollah's terrorist activities in a resolution and called on the council to take action against them. such measures have never been taken and the council has not followed this request. the un resolution on disarmament: there has never been an initiative by the european union to enforce it. on the contrary, hezbollah has been massively armed over the years. didn't our intelligence see that? and isn't it recorded that they're entrenching themselves with hundreds of missile bases in civilian residential areas? there was no action taken against it. the fact that iran, in its hegemonic policy, is making this conflict its instrument, have you really not seen that? could it be that the growing danger of war in europe was not actually seen from europe, so that inaction could be so easily overlooked with a view to the future? it is rightly being invoked here in this house from all sides - and i am very glad about it - the right of israel to exist. but why do we then watch the will to destroy against this country reorganize itself until social, political and even military panic breaks out? could it be that looking back shows our shared responsibility?
do you think it is possible to settle this question with the social partners in the framework of the social dialogue, because they are in fact the main ones responsible, also with regard to working hours? do you also think that from this point of view a solution could be found by delegating this matter to the social partners - employers' and workers' representatives?
i would like to know what opportunities you see for establishing the best practice model in the field of return to the countries of origin. do you think it would be possible for the vienna agency set up by the european commission to produce a study here on the methods which have led to people wanting to return to their countries of origin?
in austria, there is an increase in the use of illegal nurses by families to care for elderly people in need of care, as the state care allowance for legal professionals is insufficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly, and it is therefore proposing to increase the amount of the nursing allowance by one year, to provide retraining for the unemployed and to provide a nursing semester for medical students. has the proportion of undeclared work in care increased in other member states and what solutions are being discussed or should be supported by the eu?
the economic situation in russia is very prosperous, but there is a massive deterioration in human rights. does the council really believe that the measures it has taken, i.e. the dialogue within the strategic partnership, are the right ones? the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the late reaction of the socialist group has surprised me somewhat, because in the long process leading up to the resolution there was ample opportunity to express one's views. i too have received the letter from the chinese delegation, to which this may have been a response. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. among other things, the dalai lama has once again been called a separatist, even though he has repeatedly stated publicly that he does not question china's policies. also, falun gong has been called an "evil group", a word choice that is not quite familiar to us anymore. we have to ask these questions when we talk to china, because if we don't, we won't get more market share, and we'll only lose the respect of our partners. a good partnership is based on open communication and the ability to tell each other what you don't like about each other. this is a partnership between equals, and that requires that we articulate human rights issues clearly and unambiguously.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe is the most powerful trading area in the world, and that speaks for itself. we are an attractive market for chinese producers and we are a good source of income for chinese workers. we're in a win-win situation here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so it is about mutual market opening, it is about reducing quotas, it is about reducing tariffs, which will lead to a win-win situation on both sides. as the spokesman for energy issues for the european people's party, i am naturally particularly concerned about energy and the kyoto issue. in the coal sector, china plays a very important role: 75% of the energy is produced from coal and, mr brok, only 1% from nuclear power. so, we have to live with the realities. the 75% now need a lot of technology to come to terms with kyoto and the joint implementation. there are great opportunities for both sides, as well as in the use of hydropower. china has enormous potential here: it has the largest share of hydropower in the world. there are still many resources here that need to be developed in the future. crude oil consumption, which currently accounts for about 5.5% of world consumption, will also increase sharply in the future. china currently accounts for 40% of the world's additional oil demand. we see energy as a key challenge and i would ask the commissioner to address this at the summit.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the first objective, according to the ecj ruling which we now have, must be to avoid a situation of no contract, because the consequences would be negative, for the airlines as well as for the passengers. this can lead to a ban on landing, and in any case it will lead to waiting times for passengers flying to the usa, as they have to deliver the data to the airports there. we therefore support, and i very much support, the fact that commissioner frattini is entering into these negotiations with a changed legal basis following the judgment of the court of justice, but with the old treaty content, which includes exactly what we proposed at the time and what was incorporated. for those of you who haven't read the contract: it includes the reduction of the data sets to 34, the purpose limitation, the information obligation for travellers, the transfer of data to one authority only, namely the ministry of homeland security, the right of review and also the right of complaint and action, as well as the information obligation to the european union if there is a suspicion of terrorism. that means that it also gives us a measure of security, and we should take advantage of that. i think it is therefore necessary to support commissioner frattini and encourage him to enter into negotiations, and of course to demand that the points which have not yet been fully met be met. but the main point is that we must not have a state of no-deal, in the interests of the safety of the citizens of the union, in the interests of air passengers and in the interests of airlines.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. there is no doubt that the preservation and protection of cultural heritage in europe is a major task and a major task. and it is not for nothing that there are various conventions, such as those of unesco and the council of europe, and others like them, which document these efforts and also show the positive developments. however, in the debate on the protection of cultural heritage, which focuses primarily on the preservation of cultural achievements, it should be borne in mind that culture is a dynamic and diverse process. this means that while cultural policy must be concerned with the preservation and conservation of cultural heritage, it must also be responsible for building cultural networks for contemporary culture and artistic trends, so as to serve as a basis for a cultural heritage of the future. the european year of cultural heritage is a very important measure to raise awareness among the public of the cultural heritage of their country and of europe, and it certainly has a lot to show and emphasise. the european union's support in the form of structural funds, urban, leader, interreg, etc. can and should be used more for cultural heritage, but the responsibility for this lies with the member states. and there, it is necessary to realize that investing in cultural heritage has a positive impact on the quality of life of the regions and, of course, on tourism. that is the spirit in which we should proceed. what i do not entirely agree with is that we are using the culture 2000 budget or the subsequent culture 2007 budget very heavily, because an amount of 400 million euros for 27 countries for seven years does not leave enough room to invest in the structures, but at the same time to give room to contemporary art. but what we should be using these resources for is to raise awareness in the form of seminars and research commissions, clarifying questions: how far do you go? what is the situation in the other countries? planning projects: how to protect regions? that is what this programme can and should do. the cultural heritage can be understood as an indivisible whole, as required. but in the future it must always go hand in hand with the contemporary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are living in a time of rapid economic and social change, which is making us increasingly seek mental stability, security and guidance. we can also look for such security in our intellectual and cultural heritage, but also in our architectural heritage, which is also reflected in the increased interest of the population and in the increased awareness and respect for this heritage. it is precisely this respect which must move us to prevent the destruction, the deliberate destruction, of this intellectual, cultural and architectural heritage from ever happening again, as happened in the inferno of two world wars in the 20th century, as happened deliberately and planned in the real socialism, stalinism and communism of eastern europe, and as unfortunately happens again and again in our days through a brutal modernism supported by the political left. i also believe that the historical and cultural heritage of europe, especially the rural areas, should not be seen in purely economic terms, nor should it be seen as a mere means of tourism. i think it is useful to extend projects such as the european capital of culture to rural areas. if we think of sibiu, for example, the old transylvanian town of hermann, which was the subject of a photo exhibition in this house yesterday, i think that this is an example of how much the european union can do to promote cultural heritage.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we too would have liked to give our approval to this important report on china, but since the principle of 'one china, two systems' has not been accepted, we cannot give our approval. but since many legitimate human rights concerns are included in this report, we will not vote against it, but abstain.
a writer. the commission is not we are not discussing the first resolution on the situation in zimbabwe, but i admit that we have discussed better resolutions in this parliament. in cooperation with the acp states, too, the lack of democracy, the massive human rights violations in zimbabwe and the severe economic crisis accompanied by food shortages, unemployment and hyperinflation are constantly the subject of criticism and debate. if you list all the problems of this country, once called 'the breadbasket of southern africa', you have to mention the many brave people who, in a climate of severe oppression, have the courage to denounce the wrongs again and again. we should try to support these people in their struggle for freedom, democracy and development with our resolutions. i do not feel that way about some of the passages in today's resolution, and i think it is simply wrong to refer to the 2010 world cup as a matter of urgency. from 13 september - and this is a very urgent matter - there will be large-scale, nationwide actions in zimbabwe, organised by trade unions and other organisations. the growing misery of the population will be brought to the fore and the government will be called upon to ensure that minimum wages are above the poverty line and that the government is socially responsible. president mugabe is already announcing that any demonstration will be suppressed. it is important that we ensure that these peaceful protests, which point to the terrible living conditions of the population, can take place without police harassment, and, commissioner, we should also consider how we can manage, with the structure that exists in this region, to send observers to guarantee the right to freedom of expression and demonstration.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not as you know, the asem meeting and a meeting of parliamentarians have already taken place. so the members have already had an opportunity to express their views on this process. this time, it's just about getting the results. it is therefore pointless to draft a separate supplementary resolution. we therefore ask that no resolution be drawn up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just want to make a point. it is of course very interesting to hear what the honourable members are saying with their nice flags, but i am trying to get the floor for the fifth time and i have not succeeded so far. it is also worth considering giving the floor to other members in the right proportions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur and the working party set up by the committee on budgets for the seriousness with which they have dealt with this subject. it has been shown, and in our meeting today, that the same people who are calling for transparency do not want to see any results. the findings are sometimes not quite as scandalous and not as great as the reporter has already pointed out, as one might like to see in the newspapers. but they are honestly prepared documents, and that is what this committee on budgetary control, the rapporteur and this working party stand for. i congratulate you on the results that have come out of this. i do not want to repeat how terribly overlapped the debate was. everyone has an opinion on strasbourg, brussels and so on, and it is not easy to do the job properly. i think it's worked to some extent. we must support this report by mr ferber. what we should learn: firstly, the administration itself, the bureau itself - mr president, i believe you are one of them - had information which was not sent to us at a time when mr ferber was already working on the report. this is not acceptable. we have to change that. it must be mandatory in the future that it looks different. otherwise, we'll have to pick our noses. secondly, i think we should learn from what mr ferber has written that our administration is obliged to revise old contracts and not simply wait for something to come our way again in a thousand years. this can't be. thirdly, i think that all those who think that the debate on the building policy in strasbourg, which we are having now, could be mixed up with the one-seat debate, should first be sure - i am not sure - of what the building policy of parliament looks like in the other places where our house meets.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. i am pleased that after a really long struggle we have managed to produce a joint paper, just in time for the year of mobility. because i don't think it would make much sense to come up with a mobility charter next year. this would not look very happy on the outside. the charter is also necessary to accompany the new educational programmes which will begin next year. because here we have put a very high value on quantity. for example, we want to get three million students on the path to lifelong learning by 2012. at leonardo, we want to get it to 80,000 a year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. quality must be guaranteed both in the host country and in the country of origin, so that the positive experience can be used to its fullest extent when returning and that real added value can be seen. i would also like to emphasise that mobility should not only serve to strengthen employability, but that it should also be a purely personal added value: education is a good that shapes the personality and should therefore ultimately contribute to a better european understanding. the charter is intended for all those who wish to undertake short-term, formal or informal training or further training abroad. however, a balance must be struck between serving students well and making the most of the leonardo programme and creating more opportunities for companies to train apprentices. i think this is a document that can make a lot of difference. but it depends on how the member states react. it is not a legally binding instrument that we have put forward here. the member states must therefore commit themselves to implementing what is required here. we know that many decisions taken by the council have been unanimously adopted by the eu or by the council itself, and then not implemented at home. this would certainly weaken the confidence of young people in our work and in the intentions we have. i would like to stress a few points. commissioner, you have already mentioned some of them. it is important that we have a mobility guide which gives introductory information on mobility opportunities, on support and also on contact addresses. it is also important that we make the different education systems transparent, that they are comparable, so that young people know what to expect in one country or another. information on the recognition of diplomas, financial and non-financial support and the removal of language barriers is also important. the transferability of grants is very important, as has already been mentioned by mrs schöppges. we need this same transferability, which is as important as the transferability of loans, in addition to insurance, residence and work permits, accommodation and travel arrangements. the same applies to social security. the possibility of 'taking the social security system with you' is a prerequisite for young people to be able to take this leap and to be ready to embark on the 'adventure abroad'. the mobility charter is intended to be a reference system to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of mobility. the users of this charter have ten points to clarify before they leave, such as advice, information, curriculum and the like, and i do not need to list more. i would like to thank all those who have worked on this compromise. it wasn't easy to find him, but we finally did. i am glad that all the groups have tabled amendments or compromise proposals and that we shall have a quick vote tomorrow and a good report.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i think we're playing too much shadow boxing in this debate and not enough respect for the law and the citizen. let's take our own rights seriously! we write in the treaty that the european union is united in diversity. the diversity of the provision of social services is also an expression of this diversity. we are united in the single market. let us not create a compelling contradiction between diversity and the single market. secondly, we are in favour of the social market economy, for we do not consider the market to be an end in itself. the market has social responsibility, sustainability. it is a question of political responsibility where the boundaries of the market are. where the market cannot fulfil or guarantee all the tasks of the common good, the provision of public services must be allowed to fulfil its task. it is not in contradiction with the market. many social services are also in competition with each other and meet the market criteria. thirdly, we are committed to subsidiarity. subsidiarity is not incompatible with the european union. it is an essential element of the european union's model of order. we have excluded services of general interest from the services directive because we define them in a subsidiary way. we are now debating whether this question can be solved only by a decision: framework directive yes or no. we are in favour of ensuring social security, security of supply and quality at affordable prices for the citizens. and that politics is responsible for the relationship between the market and the private sector. we need a new public-private partnership; it is expressed in the provision of life.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think clean air is a big issue for all of us. we also have to consider that the consequential costs of bad air in europe are certainly higher than the implementation costs for our economy. the exceptions and the possibilities for renewal contained in the compromise text are too complicated and probably also very difficult to administer. the austrian delegation to the epp therefore largely rejected these compromises. they can also be seen against the background of better regulation. that is precisely the claim they do not meet. the package as a whole was therefore to be rejected in large part. we would prefer the council's position.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the study abroad programme, as well as distance learning courses, are becoming increasingly popular, not least thanks to millions of euros of eu funding. this trend is benefiting students themselves, who can develop their personal skills alongside their professional qualifications. but, conversely, domestic universities are also experiencing an increasing proportion of foreign students. however, i find it surprising that in austria, for example, despite a low academic ratio, the proportion of unemployed is very high. in this context, it would be worthwhile to consider increasing the number of placements abroad, but also to expand the possibilities of continuing vocational training and distance learning. that is why i voted for the prets report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have abstained on the report by mr trübel because the acquisition of so-called key competences requires basic skills such as reading, writing, arithmetic and logical, critical thinking. however, as the pisa study has shown, we are already lacking in this area. the high proportion of foreigners in school classes causes serious problems in learning these basic skills. if we do not soon limit the proportion of foreigners in education, the classes concerned will continue to suffer not only from pre-programmed conflicts between the different groups and cultures, but also increasingly lose the opportunity to acquire key skills.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much support the strategy developed by the rapporteur, but i have two criticisms: firstly, the clean air strategy for europe does not contain binding targets - but it should. secondly, the community should leave it to the member states and regions to choose how to achieve these objectives. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has now taken its revenge for turning a blind eye to turkey, and often turned a blind eye to the same thing. the turkish reforms need only exist on paper and so-called progress is celebrated. the implementation of an obligation to accept international human rights conventions, which turkey has been a member of the council of europe for over 50 years, was celebrated as a great success in 2004, for example! the european council decided in 1999 that the copenhagen criteria must be met before negotiations can begin. in addition, further political conditions have been set in the context of the greek and cyprus conflicts. not only has the commission been very generous in its interpretation of the turks so far, but now it is again seeking to extend the deadline for the recognition of cyprus, in the vague hope that turkey will then comply with it. the turkish side rejects the demand for actual compliance with the criteria as politically motivated and irrelevant, and the decision of the eu parliament is apparently not considered binding. in their typical manner, the turks even ask the members to behave politically sensibly and thus continue to be a beautician. the reality is that turkey is still not europe-ready. there is no real recognition of cyprus, no real sense of injustice in relation to the armenian genocide and no real willingness to treat the kurdish people correctly. there can be only one answer to this, and our citizens throughout europe have long since given it: all possible support for the forces of reform in turkey, but a clear no to turkey's accession to the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add my voice to what mr tajani said. we certainly agree with him that dialogue between religions, especially between the christian religions and islam, is very important. for these very reasons we did not like the pope's comments. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his statement and for the initiative he took yesterday with the ambassadors from islamic countries to revive the dialogue. that is why we are so concerned about turkey's possible membership, about turkey's path to europe, because that is what will help this dialogue. turkey is also important to us as a strategic partner in the middle east peace process, which can certainly be promoted by a european path for turkey. however, and here i agree with the rapporteur, mr eurlings, whom i thank for his efforts, the critical points which have to be made must be made. i myself was rapporteur for the european parliament years ago. i am very glad that the process has been continued, that negotiations are taking place with turkey, that some things have changed in turkey. but on the other hand, i am disappointed that progress on turkey's part is too little on a number of issues. for example, on freedom of speech: sure, many of the writers are acquitted, but the scandal is that writers are prosecuted for a crime of speech at all. this is unacceptable and must be prevented. as regards the kurdish problem, it has already been said that nobody in this house understands terrorism and that the pkk should finally commit itself permanently to the peace process. but the government has to do its part to promote peace economically, socially and politically. it must free itself from those forces - the military and the security apparatus - which do not want peaceful dialogue, particularly on the kurdish problem. the rapporteur has made a great effort to do so, although we still want to change a few things in order to be able to say clearly: yes, we want turkey to follow the european path. but we will not give up our just demands for this reason - also in the interests of turkey - because the biggest beneficiary of the reform process is not the european union but turkey itself.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you for your commitment to the implementation of schengen. i have two questions: it has been argued that the so-called schengen plus should be fulfilled in a transitional phase before schengen ii is implemented. is schengen plus a prerequisite for the implementation of schengen ii? i am referring to slovenia, which has allegedly already implemented schengen ii. secondly, what new file links are envisaged in addition to schengen ii?
what measures are being taken, madam commissioner, to take account of the new eu member states in the recruitment of officials at the commission, without increasing administrative expenditure?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. we have one of the safest currencies in the world, the euro. and i want to keep it that way. this is not a matter of course, but it requires permanent measures. these are technical measures which have been put in place and which are still being put in place in the case of renewals, as well as training and exchange measures. pericles as a supporting action programme has been extremely successful so far with 64 projects and over 3000 participants from 76 countries shows the high level of interest in this action programme. the counterfeits and the damage have been reduced. i can give an example of my country, austria, where, in the last year, the level of safeguards has been reduced by more than 40% and the damage has been reduced by more than 50%. this is partly due to the programme. but the evaluation by olaf also revealed certain weaknesses. i thank the commission and the rapporteur for using this as an opportunity to set up the new pericles programme by 2013. i think it is particularly important that new priorities are being set, for example in the field of practical training, in the field of staff exchanges and, in anticipation of the new generation of euro banknotes, specific training on the new technical conditions. i also welcome the fact that there is an extension to countries that want to adopt the euro, that is to say to partner countries where counterfeiting actually takes place, including specifically to groups of people who have not been covered in the way that was the case in the first part, where the programme was used specifically for law enforcement agencies. we must now appeal to the member states to make the most of the programme so that we can look to the future with optimism and the euro will become the safest currency in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the extension of the pericles programme is certainly important. but it is of no use to us to promote the euro as a safe currency, to deny it many of its security features, but our citizens and cashiers do not know about these security features or are unable to use them properly. the european parliament has already been consulted on this. but with the false twenties and fifties now accounting for about 80% of the blossoms, we need to raise awareness of the problems even further. unfortunately, the very wide range of uses makes it interesting for counterfeiters to produce high-quality counterfeit coins. and advances in printing technology make it increasingly difficult for the layman to tell the difference between genuine and counterfeit bills. with some 600 000 flowers withdrawn from the market every year, we certainly have a lot of work to do here. this is all the more so because not only are the numbers on the rise, but counterfeiters are also increasingly interested in coins. the increase in counterfeiting can only be tackled by better information, and more workshops on this subject should be organised by or in the eu information centres. it would be particularly useful to increase information in those areas where there has been a build-up of counterfeit money. it would also make sense to extend the project of tracing businessmen by sms, which is already running with some success in austria, in order to identify the perpetrators. the eurozone as a zone of counterfeit-proof currency should be of great concern to all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. europe is a continent of immigration, whether some people like to admit it or not. many people on our continent could accept this and live with it if they felt that this immigration was somewhat controlled and was taking place in a reasonable way. what they cannot accept, and what is of course exploited by the extreme right in particular, is to feel that they are being subjected to an onslaught that they cannot control at all. it is therefore absolutely right that the council, and in particular commissioner frattini, should make a clear call for measures to give citizens the feeling that there is a common european migration policy with certain cornerstones to ensure that everything is done in a controlled way. this of course includes solidarity in europe. it may be that some countries, such as germany and austria, are a bit bitter that they did not experience solidarity at a time when they were affected by strong migration flows, especially from south-eastern europe. but that is no reason to refuse solidarity today. no, we have to work together on this. but migration policy also includes integration policy. commissioner frattini, i am very glad that you have also raised the question of illegal work, because sometimes it is the same political forces that are terribly upset about migration, but at the same time tolerate the fact that there is a mass of illegal work in europe, that there is a reserve army of illegal workers, which also depresses the wage level. i can't do that. you are quite right to demand that the individual governments take clear action here. (applause from the centre)
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! the fight against illegal immigration is the great challenge of our time, and i must make it clear that 99% of migrants are not refugees, but economic migrants. the european union and each member state have to decide which and how many migrants they will ultimately take in, in a way that is very different from the solutions in the asylum field. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am pleased that after much discussion, clear approaches to concrete measures have now been set. i would like to congratulate commissioner frattini on frontex and other measures. what we should do is invest more in prevention. there are first approaches here too. i would suggest that we think about increased development aid, which must be targeted and controlled, information campaigns in the mass media, which should be developed in cooperation with the countries of origin, and which should provide information on the dangers and consequences of illegal immigration, which should show the reality of boat people who are stranded and of labour migration taking place in illegality. and they need to be informed about the possibility of legal immigration. this would actually help to avert much hardship and misery. the third point is that we must take a stronger and more decisive stance against illegal work within the european union. i expect the presidency of the council to ensure that mass legalisation, which is the biggest drag factor, does not happen again in the future. finally, i would like to make one more appeal to the member states to finally abandon their national animosities in favour of community solutions in certain areas of asylum, labour migration and internal security, because new challenges require new european responses.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the roure report because the fight against terrorism is a welcome pretext for the united states to force others to hand over personal data. the european union has also adopted a number of measures to protect the privacy of eu citizens, including the creation of a european data protection supervisor. the banks too now seem to be being blackmailed into disclosing money movements. all of this, we hope, for a good cause. but the eu must stop promoting the vision of the glass man. it is time for the commission to take data protection seriously again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the delegation of the ppe voted in favour of paragraph 69 in the first part because we consider this process to be an open process. we rejected the second part because it contradicts the first. we have, however, agreed to the conclusion, although the second part has a majority, because this report does not assess the finality but the state of the negotiations; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union's institutions and bodies are properly informed and that the european parliament is informed. i wanted to explain this because otherwise contradictions or interpretations are possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the eurling report, although there are undoubtedly some positive and interesting aspects in it, particularly because it expresses in sum the lack of european maturity in turkey and also makes it clear to us that this european maturity will probably never be reached. i voted against it, however, because the turkish government is pursuing a showcase policy in which a few reforms are agreed but not implemented, let alone that we are one step closer to solving high-explosive problems such as the cyprus conflict, the kurdish question or the recognition of the armenian genocide. all these issues should have been settled before the negotiations began, especially since turkey has received over eur 1.3 billion in pre-accession aid in recent years. i think it is time to say the honest 'no' to the accession negotiations that the citizens of europe have said for a long time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the darfur crisis is undoubtedly the result of the government's arabisation and its approval of the arming of militias in the civil war in south sudan. the balance sheet of this policy is depopulated countryside and - as has been stressed several times in this debate - countless deaths and millions of displaced persons. despite this, president omar al-bashir claims that it is a lie that sudanese arabs attacked black sudanese africans, and human rights organizations that complain about the conditions, according to bashir, only wanted to increase their donations. so sudan is apparently preferring to remain untouched in its civil war. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. however, this is not only considered by insiders to be poorly equipped and unmotivated, but simply overwhelmed. the deployment of un blue helmets, which promises to be more successful, is rejected as neo-colonialism. so perhaps we could agree on an islamic-african multinational peacekeeping force, a joint intervention by african union and un troops, to prevent this genocide.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the conclusion of the darfur peace agreement in may 2006, not a single deadline in that treaty has been met. the fighting and violence against the civilian population continues and even intensifies. systematic rape continues to be used as a weapon of war; in the last three months, there has been a dramatic increase in rape. the sudanese government continues to oppose a un mission which would have significantly more resources, troops and powers than the ineffective african union peacekeeping mission. the extension of the african peacekeeping mission to 11 000 police and soldiers in western sudan is welcome, but the continued collective support of the african union for un troops also shows that this can only be a transitional measure. the sudanese government is apparently already planning to send its own protection forces to the region. the prospect of being protected by the very government soldiers who drove and abused them from their homes is causing panic among the civilian population, warns amnesty international. aid agencies operating in the region fear that they will have to stop their activities altogether if government forces and the rebel groups that have not yet signed the abuja peace agreement clash again. we therefore call on the sudanese government to accept the un peacekeeping forces in darfur in accordance with chapter 7 of the un charter, as provided for in security council resolution 1706. sudan is on the brink of disaster. we must do everything we can to prevent another genocide on the african continent.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his really very good report. organic farming is a production alternative for many farmers. in view of the genetic engineering, the growing demand for organic products from controlled and certified farms is increasing. the food retail trade generates about 5% of its turnover in terms of quantity with organic food. consumers turn to organic products for their more intense taste, as well as out of a sense of responsibility for the environment and animals and to make an important contribution to an intact, diverse landscape. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must instead focus heavily on product and environmental quality, that is, the highest quality. austria has a high share of organic farming. 11.2% of all farms are organic farms, and we are very happy about that. the total turnover of organic food in austria is around 450 million euros per year. the only way to maintain confidence in organic products is to implement strict controls in all areas, that is to say, for all products, whether from the eu or from third countries. only then is it guaranteed that the consumer is prepared to pay the higher prices these products cost.
mr president, the rapporteur, mr ransdorf, and the honourable members have already said that they are not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i should like to thank mr ransdorf for his very thorough report. he has approached this important matter with a lot of feeling and flair. it is now up to us to put this matter in the proper context of the european institutions. we have on the one hand basic research, the 7th framework programme, the european research council, the technology platforms - here we have delivered something very sustainable - and i want to congratulate commissioner potočnik because this 7th framework programme will be a great step forward. on the other hand, we have the joint research centre, which could be doing a little more work on the so-called fear industry. in this area, the objectivity of the joint research centre would provide a good basis for accompanying these new technologies. the european institute of technology proposed by the commission barroso could be concerned with transferring these basic research findings to education and training in a so-called top-down strategy. or, as part of a bottleneck strategy, you can take this knowledge from the educational institutions, but especially from small and medium-sized enterprises, and present it on a platform such as ebay, where you can then exchange ideas, express wishes and ensure better communication in the 20 or more european languages. the iter fusion reactor could also play a role here, because nanotechnology is a completely new challenge, especially in fusion and plasma research, and also in energy policy, to promote energy efficiency, to minimise friction losses and to develop anti-corrosion strategies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very good report. in the 65 points, it addresses the many areas and factors that will be necessary for a comprehensive and better aid. it explains the innovative sources of financing for development and the need for a logic of debt relief to give developing countries more room to act in the fight against poverty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the effectiveness of our aid depends on greater coherence between the various policies. it is clear that efficiency should not undermine the necessary accountability. the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's external relations policy, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council's conclusions on the future of the union. in many areas, donor countries rely on ngos to ensure that aid is actually used for poverty reduction and reaches the poor and disadvantaged in partner countries if they want to increase the effectiveness of aid. member states are invited to honour their commitments to finance development aid, i.e. 0.56% of gross national product in 2010 and 0.7% in 2015. in this context, it is important to note that debt cancellations granted are not to be included in these calculations. in particular, according to the latest figures from the oecd development assistance committee, the european union has reported the debt relief for iraq and nigeria in 2005 as development assistance, even though the monterrey consensus explicitly states that the funds provided as debt relief should not come from the development assistance funds, which are normally allocated directly to developing countries. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states to draw up an annual list of the amounts allocated directly to development aid. the rapporteur has said that the assistance of the european union and the member states must be complementary, coordinated and coherent. many partner countries are overwhelmed by the large number of donors. parallel projects often create unnecessary duplicate structures and sometimes even hinder them. the solution to this problem can only be achieved by better coordination between community development cooperation and that of the member states. the report proposes a working group to involve and contribute to the work of civil society representatives. the aim is to use concrete case studies to show what is already working and where there is still a need for massive action.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr sajjad karim on economic and trade relations between the eu and india. for me, the very important social aspects were taken into account, and the social gaps between rich and poor, south/west and north/east were also addressed. i would like to stress in particular the importance of the ilo for all indian workers. although the report calls for foreign investors to exercise their political responsibility by applying the basic labour standards of the international labour organisation, i would stress that these should of course also apply to indian employers and must be applied in the interests of workers in order to create coherent structures within india to balance imbalances and improve the quality of work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are in principle in favour of the amendments. we are particularly pleased that mr solana has found a way to come. we do not agree at all that the council's promise of a very limited presence has meant that we have had to postpone a great deal of our agenda for today. we had this under the austrian presidency, but then we found a solution. i would ask the council presidencies to bear in mind that a provisional agenda is not the final one and that it may also be necessary, as it was this time, to deal with current events. i would also ask the governments representing the council to respect parliament so that they can be present at the meetings in brussels at least until the evening. this is absolutely essential, otherwise we will never be able to achieve our agenda in accordance with what we intend and what is necessary. i would ask you to pass this on to the council and to appeal to it to be more present in parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have nothing against changing the title, and we have nothing against a resolution. but in the course of a day, without clarifying matters, we consider it premature to write a resolution. i would ask you to consider drawing up such a resolution at the next plenary session, because then it will be sound. we are not going to be able to do that. we'll have more information then. so i'd separate this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr kelam of our group tried to raise this issue. it may not have been the right business time! but now that we are discussing the agenda for today's sitting, it would not only be appropriate, but also a matter of courtesy, to give the floor to the european people's party and its spokesman, mr tunne kelam, on this agenda and to amend this item, and not to have votes on a single motion on this subject beforehand, after there have been many other opinions. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. with the test conducted in north korea, north korea has shown that it does not care about the nuclear non-proliferation treaty at all. the political leadership has deliberately and seriously provoked the international community with the test. it has accepted that this test is a threat to peace and security in the region and beyond, and finally it has accepted that it is not just the asian region that can start a new nuclear arms race. it has also accepted the country's complete isolation without regard for its own people. we must take a clear and strong stand as the european parliament. we must condemn this in the strongest possible terms, we must call on the political leadership to return to the negotiating table to negotiate the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, to resume the six-party talks, and finally to find a peaceful solution to the present crisis. the european parliament must also call on the international community and the security council to react more strongly than before. it is simply unacceptable that the north korean government should allow the world community to provide food for its starving people, while at the same time using the money it earns and the money it receives from outside to develop nuclear weapons systems. mr president, i ask you - you have already spoken - to make a written statement expressing the european parliament's protest and demands to the north korean government, to the international community and to the security council. we cannot accept that a second attempt should repeat what was condemned in the strongest terms the first time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is no doubt that we are in a very difficult situation as far as our relationship with russia is concerned. the recent murder of mrs politkovskaya is not the only one, nor is it a very rare occurrence. it is something that we are ashamed of, but of course russia should be even more ashamed of. let me address three areas of concern where we have great difficulty in relations with russia. first, as i have already said, the question of human rights, freedom of expression. what we particularly regret is that russia does not realize that this disregard for freedom of expression and human rights in russia is hurting russia itself the most. it may also be harmful to us because it affects relations with russia. but russia itself is the most affected because it is hampered in its positive, democratic development. secondly, the neighbourhood policy. we are not going to discuss south ossetia and transnistria today. but here too: the neighbourhood policy pursued by russia is unacceptable to us as the european union. it is not for russia to decide what the fate of the south ossetians or the people of transnistria is. the people there must decide this themselves, they must decide this freely and not under pressure, under military pressure, perhaps even from russia. we must therefore speak quite frankly to russia. the last point is the energy question: i support all those who are in favour of a common energy policy. the president of the commission has said that in clear and unambiguous terms. but many of those who applaud today would have applauded a year ago if we had said we needed a common energy policy? and will they join in the applause when it comes to them also having to reorient their own preferences accordingly? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. and if we start to increase energy efficiency, to develop alternative forms of energy, and to put in place measures in the transport sector, in the housing sector, then many will stand up and say, "no, that's not what we meant". but back to russia: the problem we have today is that the energy policy relations between the eu and russia are unbalanced, that russia - with putin at the head - unfortunately makes energy policy more and more a political power issue and not an economic factor as we do. and if we're going to do business with russia, it's clearly only by negotiating as equal partners. russia must remember one thing: its energy reserves, especially its gas reserves, are running out. not today, but in eight, ten, maybe even twelve years. and what will russia do? it would therefore also be in russia's own interest to recognise that it needs our technology, our know-how, our financing and therefore to establish equal energy relations with europe. if we can face each other, particularly on the energy question, then we will also come up with good solutions. otherwise, not only the european union will suffer, but also russia. russia should therefore realise where its real long-term interests lie. it can learn a great deal from dialogue with us, with the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i find today's debate to be sobering on the one hand, but also very refreshing and encouraging on the other. many speakers offer sober analysis, right goals, and depressing truths. but what does that mean? what action are we taking? it's action that builds trust, not analysis alone. i would like to send three messages to the presidency of the council for the summit. firstly, if you have been listening to us, we would like to say to you: do not go over the top when talking to vladimir putin! do not reduce the meeting to the energy partnership, but also talk about all the things that were discussed today! secondly, give us a timetable for when we will have the eu internal energy market that president barroso has promised. thirdly, give us a timetable for when the european union will become a research area. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process in the middle east. increasing energy independence is our priority. the creation of a research focus on reducing energy consumption and creating renewable energy sources is our main focus and our biggest contribution to more innovation. strengthen the participation of smes in innovation and involve smes in the tripartite dialogue. don't forget that the year started with the reduction of gas supplies to ukraine! remember that the latest event in russia was the murder of a critical journalist, and many murders before that did not receive the same public attention as this latest murder.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my colleague in the field is not in the wrong play. it is about defending the rights of our citizens and the role of parliament. the production is a bit tired, and the cast is not great. until the judgment of the european court of justice, we were dealing with the transfer of the most personal data of our citizens to a foreign state. since that judgment we know that this was an illegal transfer of data, not just for formal reasons, ms klamt. we've been passing on our citizens' data without any legal basis. another word for it is "illegal". this is a serious infringement of fundamental rights without any legal basis. there's nothing formal about it. this should give us a lot to think about. what are we dealing with today? with an agreement which, in the third pillar - intergovernmental cooperation - without parliament, without public debate, without the jurisdiction of the court of justice, but also without national parliaments, without ratification - is a legal continuation of this illegal transfer. if you think that the americans have the right to decide who they let into their country and under what circumstances, then i think we have agreed that there is a limit to that in human dignity, in international law and in human rights. i think it is absolutely absurd for the commission to say that we will pass on the data but that the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens will remain intact, because the americans have promised us the same protection of data as we have in europe. yeah, we have a superstate with the americans now? doesn't the fundamental right forbid us to pass on the data of our citizens to foreign countries, regardless of the data protection they have there? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. i personally have to say that yes, the play about defending the fundamental rights of european citizens would be the right thing to do, but the cast and the production are miserable.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr kacin, for his work. we don't always agree on the content, but it's always interesting to work with him and discuss. i fully agree with his proposals. mr casaca has already said that the agency has done a very good job and i think we as the european union can be proud of having created this agency. it has indeed done an excellent job, and when someone like mr casaca of the committee on budgets says this, who is of course particularly critical, it counts all the more. however, i agree with commissioner rehn that times change and situations change; the countries are going in different directions. the time taken to become a member often varies. but i also ask him to ensure that the people who have had some very good experiences in these countries also have an opportunity to continue to do good work for the european union and for these countries. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner rehn for his commitment to this region. it is very important that there is someone who is sensitive to the region, who knows that the needs of this region must be addressed accordingly from a pan-european perspective. i would ask the commissioner - and i am sure he will - to do everything humanly possible in the coming months, especially at a time when the situation in bosnia-herzegovina and kosovo is precarious, and that we - the commission, the european parliament and hopefully the council - work together to ensure the stability of this region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore very important that the commissioner responsible for this issue gives clear direction. if he does, we will support him fully in his further work.
member of the commission. mr president, with regard to the community action plan on the protection and welfare of animals, i am grateful for all the hard work done by the members of the committees concerned. let me acknowledge in particular the efforts of mrs jeggle on this important initiative. animal welfare is a subject of major concern for eu citizens, stakeholders and members of parliament. they have all been very vocal in calling for higher standards of protection for animals, not just in the eu but worldwide. the commission is working hard and with some success to develop a greater international consensus on animal welfare. for instance, we have been instrumental in the development of animal welfare standards by the world organisation for animal health. we should remember that the issue is not restricted to farm animals, but also extends to experimental, zoo, circus and wild animals. the action plan seeks to promote a broad-based approach to animal welfare involving all stakeholders, so that everyone plays their part. it is not just a matter for farmers or animal handlers: scientists, industry, citizens and governments all have a role to play. moreover, it is an area which can render sectors of the eu economy more competitive, and the proposed establishment of a european information platform would facilitate an open dialogue and a sharing of expertise and experience. there are also strong links with other community policies, for example the lisbon strategy for growth and employment, the principle of better regulation and paying proper attention to the scientific, social and economic principles underpinning community policies. as highlighted in parliament’s report and in the austrian presidency’s conclusions, more research is needed to address current knowledge gaps and strengthen the scientific basis for our policies. in particular, the development and validation of objective science-based animal welfare indicators are key to the successful implementation of the action plan. this work could be improved by the establishment of a community centre for the protection and welfare of animals. the commission needs and intends to consult widely during the coming months, including with member states and stakeholders, on the expectations for such a centre. in implementing the action plan, the commission is keen to ensure that policies are developed and implemented in a more coherent and consistent manner, respecting our clear obligations under the protocol to the ec treaty. animal welfare is an issue of major importance for eu citizens and i very much welcome parliament’s positive attitude towards our initiative. the commission will play close attention to the aspects highlighted in parliament’s report, and i am sure we will return to the action plan many times during the course of its implementation. i look forward to parliament’s future support for the initiatives necessary to follow the strategy laid out in the plan.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs jeggle, for this factually and technically sound report. it is well known that in austria, my country of origin, there is a uniform federal animal welfare law, which is one of the most advanced in europe. i am very pleased that this report has made a great contribution to this very practical and species-friendly federal animal welfare law. all this has been very difficult because the citizens of europe are rightly concerned about this issue. because the welfare of all animals must be considered! i am therefore very disappointed that my predecessor has again referred only to farm animals and not to all animals. all animals are living beings, and every animal has a right to be treated as it is, whether in a zoo or a home or as a pet. as a farmer myself, who has been running the farm and keeping animals there for over thirty years, i know how important it is that the animals are kept in a species-appropriate manner. the quality of the product, the food produced from them, is greatly influenced by the way the animals are kept and fed. from this point of view, from my knowledge and daily experience, i value this report very highly. i am also very pleased that this report deals with animal welfare in relation to the wto, but also, and above all, with imports from third countries. because one thing must be clear: if we cannot get animal husbandry - whether in the european union or imported from third countries - to be subject to the same rules, european farmers, european animals and european consumers will not benefit because production will simply not be produced as desirable. all animals are living beings, as i said. i would therefore like to thank mrs jeggle in retrospect for her report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur and colleagues, the jeggle report contains many things which are urgent and necessary to advance animal welfare throughout europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the consumer society, the key lies with the consumer. he and you decide whether our chickens are laid on straw or chained to iron bars before they disappear into the shape of chicken mcnuggets in our mouths; whether our pigs are being pumped full of medication to help them survive the agony of their short lives; whether stray cats and dogs are skinned to end up as a fancy accessory on winter coats. it is up to the consumers whether we in europe will encourage and empower those farmers who are concerned about animal welfare, animal husbandry and healthy food, or whether we will force our farmers to join the world in dumping for the lowest standards and lowest prices. i am convinced that the majority of informed, enlightened consumers would never buy a product that ends up on the shelves after a torturous ordeal. man is a disposer of property. he doesn't want to see the sadness of animal torment when he's putting his roast in the oven. it is our political duty to ensure that consumers know the true conditions of production. we politicians must educate. the effectiveness of labelling is demonstrated by the warning labels on cigarette packs. in the jeggle report we call for a labelling programme which would solve the problem of consumers recognising a particularly animal-friendly product. i'm arguing that we should be brave here. the consumer should also be able to identify when a product has been produced under appalling animal cruelty. the consumer would certainly not go for cheap goods, but rather for a more expensive product, if he also identifies himself as an animal friend. we europeans are far too defensive here. we must not fear cheap competition from third countries. we can't produce it as cheaply as they can. let us trust the growing community of consumers who make informed purchasing choices and buy products that guarantee the respectful treatment of animals!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the beginning of conscious animal welfare as a result of the increasingly technological livestock farming in the 19th century, much has been done. the action plan we are discussing is certainly another important step in the right direction. as we know, the eu expressed its concern about dog, bull and cockfighting in 2003, and this has been reflected in this document. strangely enough, the fox hunt was forgotten. i believe that action is also needed in the area of wild birds, because the eu is still releasing species for hunting, the stocks of which have been declining for decades. i think it would also be particularly important to finally change our agricultural subsidies so that eu funds are not mainly used to support large landowners, but that animal husbandry, as practiced by countless small farmers, is worthwhile. finally, the abolition of export subsidies for transport of animals should not only show more compassion for animals but also protect the environment and help the population suffering from transit traffic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is certainly welcome that the need for the professions to be reviewed is reflected in the rules of professional conduct, which are in part outdated. however, i do not think it is appropriate that all the sectors concerned, despite their diversity, should be deregulated in the same way. the professions are known to provide high-quality services in the public interest. i don't think we should be experimenting here. the fact that, for example, in argentina and france, there is a consideration of reintroducing statutory notary fees shows that deregulation is not the nonplusultra. for example, in germany, a strong increase in lawyers and the simultaneous relaxation of the fee regime has led to the fact that highly qualified legal advice is only offered at dizzying hourly rates, while at the lower end of the market a large number of lawyers work at dumped prices. it is paradoxical that the commission should want to restrict professional rights on the one hand, but at the same time demand the establishment of codes of conduct and introduce new quality controls after the abolition of regulatory measures.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has been fighting bureaucracy, parallel structures and over-administration for years. it does this only partially with success, but always with justice. but at the same time we, the european parliament - and above all the council - have always supported the creation of new agencies. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. the consequence is clear from the court of auditors' report. we've got 16 agencies now. i don't know if you know all these agencies and where they exist. we now have over 2 300 employees in these agencies. if you track the costs, you'll see that we're probably going to cross the billion mark now. that is 1 000 million euros! if you then see that 60 to 70% of the costs go to the administration of these agencies, then you will rightly ask yourself: how useful are these agencies? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the problem we face. we know that the agencies, of course, have bureaucratic costs that increase dramatically. i looked at the numbers. we are seeing a 10 to 20% increase in staff costs every year, and in some agencies it is as high as 80 to 100%. but the question is: who is going to check what services these agencies actually provide, what benefit they bring to the citizens of the european union, what added value they represent? perhaps some, perhaps even many, are superfluous. we should take the opportunity to examine how the respective tasks can be better distributed and in what cases others can do it better. i would ask you to think about it and to examine the quality, the performance and the added value of the 16 agencies that we have, and also to consider closing one or the other when it is no longer needed and no longer provides services, instead of constantly thinking about where we can open new agencies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs kovács and mrs gál, on behalf of my group. i do not say this as a rhetorical device, but because it was a very difficult task and both rapporteurs have taken a position of parliament which is strong and convincing, which has a large majority and hopefully impresses the council as well. this parliament has always seen itself as a defender of fundamental rights. that's his job, too. it is in the nature of the directly elected representative of the people that she is an advocate of fundamental rights. i regret that this has not been recognised by the council on the question of co-decision. that is a flaw in the whole discussion. if we want to see whether politics really wants to make a difference and what its innermost aims are, we should look at the instruments it uses to enforce its aims. mr pirker is just reminding us of the bureaucracy at european level. the instruments in monetary policy, the internal market, the stability pact are hard laws, that is, money in abundance, that is, sanctions, binding deadlines, monitoring bodies and much more. i have never heard mr pirker argue about what fiscal and budgetary policy does to enforce it: instruments of surveillance, control, full disclosure of national data, sanction mechanisms, jurisdiction - everything that politics can wish for to enforce its hard-line objectives. but when we come to democracy, when we come to fundamental rights, we are dealing with soft agreements and agreements, with a bunch of confessions without sanctions, without guarantees, without monitoring mechanisms. this is one of the causes of the crisis of confidence in europe. the economic objectives are being enforced with the utmost rigour, but the interests of the people are being promoted as a sunday sermon and then as a creed. the situation is serious. the charter of fundamental rights, after many years, still has no legal force, still has no legal binding force. the cia prison affair, the data transfer, the slow intelligence and cooperation of governments have seriously shaken public trust. in the fight against terrorism, we are losing more and more the balance between freedom and security. the provisional failure of the european constitution has meant that the whole area of intergovernmental cooperation remains the black hole of democracy in europe. the government of one member state, poland, is publicly considering the introduction of the death penalty. the british home secretary stood at the podium here and called for the repeal of the prohibition on torture of terrorists. nevertheless, there is still no early warning system for articles 6 and 7. no, mr pirker, i have not. the instruments for the enforcement and guarantee of fundamental rights are unfortunately not on a par with the economic and monetary instruments for the enforcement of these objectives. we have a very important task to solve here. it is also important to us because fundamental rights are indivisible. the key demand of parliament is, of course, to include government cooperation in this. the second and, above all, the third pillar must be the full responsibility of the agency, unless governments want to make it clear to citizens that they are ignoring the most sensitive area, fundamental rights, the rights of citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make one thing quite clear to mrs roure: the european people's party expressly acknowledges and supports the work of mrs gál, and it knows this. there's no change in that either. the same applies to the commissioner's esteemed work. i have also made it clear at the beginning of my introduction that there is a need to make fundamental and general considerations about agencies. we believe that human rights are indivisible. they must be observed. i take it for granted that they will be respected within the european union and also in the states which will join. the question of agencies and their design is therefore one which warrants fundamental reflection. i fully support mrs gál, the commissioner. but all other comments will stand with five vowels as i said they would!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. human rights are a great good for which we must strive worldwide. i remember the sad events in russia, but we have much to do at home too. articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty are important cornerstones. but that can't be all. we are not satisfied with the almost casual mention of fundamental rights. we cannot therefore say it often enough on the subject of human rights: we need, above all, a comprehensive catalogue of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the form of binding european law. we need the european constitution, and the european charter of human rights which it contains must not remain a solemn declaration. we cannot celebrate until the charter is recognised as binding and directly applicable european law. the epp group also sees its priorities here. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the agency we are discussing today can, must and should have a purely service function. i have my doubts about this text. commissioner frattini spoke, among other things, of the agency's role in monitoring the respect of fundamental rights. what about the commission's central task? i have been teaching my students at university for many years that the commission is the guardian of the treaties, the guardian, and that judicial protection of european law is a task which the european court of justice is doing very well. and, moreover, are our democratic structures and the rule of law in the member states really in danger, as some speakers have said here and today? some of the comments made by my colleagues here really scare me. last but not least, political control of european policies is one of the essential tasks of this house, the european parliament itself, and it must remain so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we support the work of our colleague, mrs kinga gál. it has taken important and good preparatory steps here. we are not saying that the rules we have for other agencies should not apply to this one agency. this is absurd. the role of expertise that is envisaged for this agency is also something that we should leave to the european court of justice and not jeopardize it by duplicitousness.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are differences between the french and the english translation of the original text that must be taken into account. the french text refers to a discussion on accession to the munich convention, whereas the english text clearly speaks of accession to the munich convention, and this makes a big difference. so we don't know how to interpret the text. if the english text is relevant, french members should be aware that they are agreeing to join the munich convention, although the french text is a bit more lenient. there are differences in detail.
mr president, mr goebbels, you are the man. we have made it clear at the conference of presidents that we are absolutely in favour of discussing this question, but not this week, because we have already had to postpone the question time scheduled on the agenda because we have so little time with the council. we will certainly support the green group - or whoever is asking for a debate - in bringing the matter to the agenda at the appropriate time. we are well aware of this problem, but it does not need to be discussed this week. that is our position.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the background to my speech is the problem of stray dogs on corfu. the austrian animal welfare association has been supporting many projects in corfu for years, but has been prevented from working effectively and efficiently by the local authorities. foreign veterinarians are not allowed to treat, animal shelters already built are not allowed to be put into operation, and although the tui travel company would have financed this project, stray dogs were not allowed to be taken to families in germany and austria, but were instead brutally murdered on corfu. i call on the council, the commission and the members to remedy this situation and i ask in particular that outside help be allowed and recognized in order to solve the problem as quickly as possible for the benefit of the animals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the waste of eu money is obviously seen by many as a crime of chivalry. it is hardly possible to explain otherwise that only 17% of the €3.1 billion improperly paid out over the past thirty years has been recovered. insufficient control procedures and non-compliance with eu rules seem to be commonplace. it is bad enough that billions of eu funds are disappearing into black coffers. but if, even in the rare cases where illegal payments are discovered, recovery is not successful or is so sluggish that those responsible go into hiding and the money disappears, then the european union is suffering from an almost organized irresponsibility. it is unacceptable that the same countries should repeatedly neglect the management of eu funds without consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has already done so. there is a growing number of global companies that require comparable and globally recognised consolidated financial statements for access to international capital markets. this has led to a change in accounting at international level and the rapid pace of globalisation makes it imperative to harmonise accounting across borders. the adoption of the ias regulation also marked an important milestone in the creation of an integrated internal financial market and in the harmonisation of accounting in europe. a developed capital market improves the competitive position of economies. studies have shown that member states with high equity capitalisation and stock exchange turnover relative to gdp also have higher growth and employment rates. in this context, the alignment of ifrs and us gaap accounting standards and third country gaap is also strongly encouraged. this is a major contribution to the development of uniform and internationally accepted accounting standards and thus to the integration of capital markets. the aim should not be to eliminate simply existing differences in the accounting systems of the united states, canada or japan. the creation of high quality accounting standards must be the primary objective of convergence. only these will be permanent and will meet with absolute acceptance. the early recognition of ifrs financial statements by the us securities and exchange commission (sec) is of key importance for european companies. the imbalance in the recognition of accounting standards should be eliminated by january 2009 at the latest. this is the only way to strengthen the competitiveness of european enterprises.
the commission has already done so. you have heard it often enough: we are all against this european programme being transferred back into the hands of the member states. i want it to stay european. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is not appropriate for the member states to implement through the habitats programme or the birds directive things which are actually contrary to common sense. environmental policy should be given the proper weight, but frogs should not be protected any more than people. it is also the task of the commission and its departments to ensure that the right balance is maintained. it is important that we here in the european parliament, together with you, the commission, implement programmes which add european value. it is not possible to simply transfer funds, that is to say, to give money back to the member states and leave it to them to decide where the money goes. it is also not appropriate that these funds should be used to finance ngos whose background and context we do not know. so we must be careful that european taxpayers' money is used properly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the second reading of the financial instrument for the environment once again shows that the financial perspective for 2007-13 does not provide a sufficient basis for the union's tasks in the field of the environment, as in many other areas. it is precisely because we are in such a difficult financial situation that it is important that we support our rapporteur with a massive majority tomorrow. the commission is signalling a willingness to compromise, but we know that the negotiations will be extremely difficult. the amendments which the commission said this evening that it could not accept are the very heart of the european parliament's position. it has already been said that renationalisation is seen as a threat to european environmental policy and european added value. i therefore support all the rapporteur's amendments to delete the text, because they are steps in the right direction.
the commission has already done so. we all learn from the past and from our experiences. i think that disaster prevention is one example of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are three aspects to be considered: first, prevention, second, response to the crisis and third, dealing with the consequences. the european union can do a great deal in the field of prevention. unfortunately, disasters occur in different regions and for different reasons. but learning from each other, especially in the european union, is extremely important here. the european union has a special role to play in this respect. in responding to the crisis, the union must play its part, in particular by coordinating action. the member states must not be relieved of their responsibilities; disaster prevention is and remains a central national competence. i therefore find it extremely critical that the union is now trying to create a certain ambiguity by purchasing equipment which is certainly not the right thing to do. it is important that we really focus on a good coordination of the resources available in the member states in order to avoid duplication. the next phase is dealing with the aftermath. the crisis response instrument created by the european union, the solidarity fund, already exists for this area. here again we should consider how we can use it more efficiently, perhaps changing the guidelines and focusing on really only dealing with crises of european dimensions.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank karin jöns in particular, who is not only the main initiator of today's motion for a resolution and the question, but is also really continuously raising awareness of breast cancer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. breast cancer is the number one cause of death for women between 35 and 59, both for women who have children and for women who don't have children. every year, 88 000 women and 1 000 men die of breast cancer in the european union. mammography screening can significantly reduce the mortality rate for breast cancer in women aged 50 to 69. eu guidelines on this subject exist, but have only been implemented in 11 member states since 1992. there are big differences in the mortality rates of women. that is why we are eagerly awaiting the progress report announced by commissioner kyprianou for 2007. the european parliament is now concerned not only with early detection and optimal treatment of breast cancer but also with prevention. the causes of breast cancer need to be studied more comprehensively, particularly the role of harmful chemicals and environmental exposures, diet, lifestyle and genetic factors, and also the question of how these factors are related. in a few weeks' time, when this parliament votes on the new european chemicals policy, we will have the opportunity to send a clear signal that we are serious about preventing and preventing cancer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the graça moura report for the following reasons: the approach underlying the 2007-2013 culture programme, which is that cultural networks need only start-up funding and then finance themselves, is contrary to their non-commercial nature and the eu's objective of sustainability of funding. the promotion of intercultural dialogue is also formulated in the present culture programme in an abstract way, so that all or nothing can fall under this objective. there is no question of transparency, which is why i voted against this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this report for several reasons, and i say this on behalf of the ppe delegation. one reason is that this report calls for illegal immigrants to be granted the same or even greater rights as legal immigrants, such as the right to housing, family allowances, health care and access to education. and this report also calls for new grounds for asylum, such as when someone enters into a forced marriage or so-called arranged marriage. these demands do not solve problems, they create more problems, and measures like these actually create a drag on illegal immigration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also voted against the kratsa-tsagaropoulou report for the following reasons: if these are exclusively legal immigrant women, then there is no doubt that we must help them to find their way within our system of norms and values, to integrate and to bring this integration into the family. finally, conflicts can arise, especially in the second and third generations of immigrants, which can or even must lead to acts of violence, as we have to learn from the example of france. but there is a need to put an end to the problems arising from cultural and religious motives, such as forced marriage, honour killings and genital mutilation. any family reunification of second, third or fourth wives, contrary to the common european prohibition of double marriage, must be brought to an immediate end. i have voted against this report because it has not been taken into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my gratitude to the finnish presidency for its initiative to finally tackle the sacred cow of the european union's job vacancies. i think it is extremely regrettable that the attempt to cut at least 200 posts and then go further in this direction is rejected in the form in which it is found here in paragraph 29 of the elles report. this is really the wrong way! it is wrong, above all, if i may quote catherine guy-quint, the lady who tabled the amendment, who said: 'so far i have not heard any rational reasons for the cuts. behind it all is personal vendettas, hurt vanities, intrigue and aggressiveness. that's what she said in committee. the opposite is true, of course! it is reasonable, the eu has already done many jobs. it would be the right signal if we finally saved some money at home.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as some of the previous speakers have said, we are dealing with the first budget of the new financial period, a so-called austerity budget. the savings, however, are only in the interests of european citizens. we are dealing with a misguided budgetary policy of the european member states! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council of ministers is happy to use the old leverage again: if you do not adopt the budget quickly in parliament, then we will not be able to start the programmes in time for 2007. we must resist the council, which sometimes delays internal decision-making for many months, from making parliament or others the scapegoat! i would like to take this opportunity to remind the commission that it is this house which has repeatedly defended the commission's position, and not the council. it would be useful, on the other hand, if the commission were aware of this and did not constantly degrade itself to the post of secretary of the council. in the second pillar of agriculture, the rural sector, a totally unacceptable proposal has been put forward to cover a budgetary hole - we must also decide on it this week: member states should have the possibility of voluntarily transferring up to 20% of the funds from the first pillar to the second pillar, the rural sector. this is uncooked! it is against the rights of this house and it must be rejected! what do these two things, the dance networks in europe and the countryside, have in common? firstly, both have been victims of the council's irresponsible austerity policy. secondly, on both occasions the commission abandoned its original position and tacitly became the secretary of the council. thirdly, we must try both times to put pressure on the council and the commission by putting funds in reserve, so that in the end we can save what is to be saved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in this directive from 2004, we set the bar very low on delays, after the airlines told us at the time that they could not really continue to exist economically after the disaster of 9/11 with tough regulations. it is a systematic practice of airlines to allow delays to go unnoticed. during the day, these delays add up to many hours in the course of several landing and take-off manoeuvres, without any financial compensation. we have strict rules for rail passengers, which can go as far as full refund, and for air passengers... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already done so. i am glad to see that the number of complaints seems to be relatively low. however, i have experienced - we fly quite often - that there have been three overbookings on my last three flights. i would now like to know whether there are any specific airlines which have been more frequently mentioned in this connection. can we say that there are certain lines that perhaps even practice overbooking professionally? in that case, can we not consider taking action against these companies, not only at the level of compensation but also against these companies themselves, outside the infringement procedure? what about improved publicity to make passengers aware of the possibility of compensation payments? (the president cut the speaker off)
- i'm not sure. the foreign surcharges for the new umts technology are even more expensive than for ordinary mobile phones. surfing abroad can quickly cost you a lot of money, even if it's only through a network of partners. the calculation does not usually indicate whether the invoice is billed by minutes or by volume. does the commission intend to increase transparency in this area as part of the roaming regulation?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. fair trade is not just an issue in the textile sector, but also in the energy sector. in russia, oil is currently being supplied to energy-intensive industries at $8 a barrel, and gas is available at a very competitive price. what opportunities do you see for the survival of our energy-intensive industry and what impact will this have on russia's accession to the wto?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. at a time of debates on the demographic challenge of the 21st century, youth riots in france and a growing trend towards nationalist parties, it is of the utmost importance to involve young people in order to work towards an understanding of other ways of thinking and cultures and thus lay the foundations for strengthening solidarity within europe. the aim is to provide young people who are not or cannot be mobilised through formal training programmes such as erasmus, comenius or leonardo with a chance to gain valuable experience of intercultural dialogue. informal education needs to be given much more recognition and importance. i am convinced that the programme has put the right emphasis on the youth for europe action, which is committed to youth exchanges and youth initiatives. we should also invite the european youth forum to present its work regularly in the committees so that all members can learn and benefit from the valuable work. in various discussions with youth organisations, a wide range of problems were raised, including the different modalities of issuing visas and the lack of reflection on these differences. i ask you to involve the young people here more.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. i am glad that we can celebrate a cultural day here today, because there are five really big programmes for debate and also for voting. that doesn't happen very often in this house. it is also a sign of the importance and necessity of setting up such programmes. together, the five programmes education, youth, culture, media and active citizenship account for just under 1% of the total budget for the european budget 2007-13. that puts everything in perspective and sobers us up a bit. i would point out that we certainly needed more financial support for these ambitious programmes. as i said, we all had more in mind. it was the countries that blocked it. but overall, i think that the lifelong learning programme shows the right approaches: simplification, flat-rate payments, more decentralisation. that is what we are asking for. the effort must be proportionate to the financial support. the aim would naturally have been to integrate the other eu support programmes horizontally. i would also like to appeal to the commission to pass on the simplification to the national agencies and to the applicants. the restructuring of the national agencies is under way and will certainly take some time. but it also needs dialogue and the support of the commission. we ourselves should also be more involved in dialogue, because there are still some problems to be overcome. it is to be hoped that the upward trend towards mobility will continue. we have set ourselves the goal of getting three million students started by 2012. we have to make a lot of effort and demand a lot of improvements. it is also necessary to analyse the quality of school systems and to demand that they be safeguarded not only by the eu but also by the member states themselves.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! i believe that the lahti summit is an important step forward. i hope that the spirit of lahti you have invoked will really - as mr schulz said - bring about concrete results. mr president of the commission, you have made a foreign policy proposal in the field of energy policy, which i very much welcome. i'm with you on this. i would ask you to remain strong if some countries are again excluded because they realise that they may not want this common energy and common foreign policy. i would also ask mr vanhanen to tell his colleagues in the council that. what has been decided here - i hear very positive reports from the discussion in lahti - must now also be implemented. it's the only way we can advance our interests. there was talk of dependence on russia. we should bear in mind that russia is also dependent on the european union for its oil and gas consumption, particularly as the pipelines are almost exclusively in the direction of the european union. we should therefore enter into these negotiations and discussions with pride and confidence and not be afraid to tackle certain issues. we should be establishing interdependence and interdependence here, including, of course, those regions which you mentioned, mr president of the commission, and which we should not forget, such as ukraine or other countries in the black sea region, and in particular turkey. we must also formulate a common policy with them. then we can achieve a real partnership with russia. as regards the points of dispute, we must not forget that in our relations with russia, and in particular in the future partnership agreement, we also need a clear dispute settlement procedure. for conflicts that may always exist and that we cannot avoid in the future, there must be a dispute settlement process, like in the world trade organization, so that we can ultimately resolve these things together or through an independent arbitrator. our goal is partnership. as mr schultz has already said, it is clear that putin is a strong man. many russians see this as a positive development, but if the european union is united, it is stronger than putin. then we can really come to a good, correct and equal partnership. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would welcome the improvement of the schengen information system. i have nevertheless voted against the coelho report because i believe that we must reject a no-deal solution to the immediate enlargement of the schengen area, which is being proposed by the new eu members. the security of the citizens must be protected against any possible hostility from hungary, poland and the czech republic, which, as we know, are exerting enormous pressure here. the newcomers' ability to secure the eu's external border in the east is questionable, given the high number of illegal immigrants caught at the eastern border of my home country, austria. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
in writing. the adoption of the coelho reports provided the legal basis for the practical implementation of the second generation schengen information system. sis ii brings more security to the eu through a new electronic catch-net at the new external borders. the new sis ii has new features: it increases the storage capacity for 27 member states, it allows the storage of biometric data and the european arrest warrant, and it allows the linking of personal and factual data. in addition, data protection standards have been improved. sis ii will create new searching possibilities for the police and the judiciary and the conditions for the free movement of european citizens in a wider area of freedom, security and justice. for all these reasons i have agreed to the reports by mr coelho.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is, after all, a first to be given a statement of vote in front of a completely empty hall. i would like to explain, however, why i abstained on the muscardini report. after the end of the 10-year quota, the export of chinese leather shoes to europe has increased sharply since 2005. we know that. naturally, the penalties are now being criticised by china and by those companies which benefit from chinese supplies. it may also be that we will lose the european footwear industry, which has been employing fewer and fewer workers for years and moving more and more factories to non-eu countries, irrevocably, as the critics of the punitive tariffs point out. nevertheless, we cannot stand by and watch an entire industry go down the drain. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i agree with you and thank you for your attention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if some in russia listen to us - especially officials - they will think that we have no other intention than to step on the tail of the russian bear in the european parliament this week. we do not intend to do so, but we want to make it clear to russia that it should try to solve the problems that are facing us together, from the energy problem to the neighbourhood problem. and russia should commit to multilateralism! in criticising america, we often agree on the one-sidedness of american actions. but when it comes to doing something in its own area - multilaterally and not unilaterally - russia has recently taken a different path, and that is absolutely unacceptable. firstly, we need the help of the countries concerned. as regards georgia, we wish - and we said so during our last visit to georgia - that georgia would sign the pledge to renounce violence. the suggestion that 'we want to be able to defend ourselves' is certainly not meaningful, because this is of course everyone's right. secondly, we want a concrete proposal on how to reintegrate the population of south ossetia and abkhazia into georgian society, because we believe that there can only be a common integral georgia, albeit with specific concrete proposals to these sections of the population. nevertheless, the main responsibility remains with russia. i don't understand that russia still hasn't understood that you don't make friends by supporting small, separatist, sometimes criminal underground movements, but by supporting the stability of your neighbors, and georgia would certainly like to do the same. but what we must absolutely reject is the expulsion of the georgians from russia. it sounds cynical to argue that yes, but they are illegal. the expulsion of georgians right now, in the face of these incidents is as unfortunate a coincidence as the energy price increases in the case of ukraine before the elections and in the case of belarus after the elections. this is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we will soon recover several thousand tonnes of contaminated material and the 500 tonnes illegally dumped in africa, so that many times the original special waste will be returned to europe. the necessary preparations must be made here. in general, the so-called basel convention seems to be working to some extent. official exports of toxic waste to africa are reported to have declined sharply. however, this is not the case in samples taken in european ports, where about half of all shipments of waste declared as non-toxic have turned out to be toxic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal dumping of hazardous waste. we will also have to deal with the problem of the growing trade in electronic waste and shipwrecks, which is not yet covered by international conventions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for decades, exports of toxic laboratory chemicals, solvents, waste pesticides, and sewage sludge from industrialized countries have turned africa into a dangerous dumping ground. the criminal business of toxic waste is a very lucrative business for a few people in europe and africa. although we know that the action taken by the dutch company in abidjan is clearly against the basel convention, but also against eu law, we have to ask ourselves how quickly we as european institutions can react to this so that this does not happen again in the future. we are very pleased with the announcements made by commissioner dimas and hope that this time the member states and the european council will realise the seriousness of the situation and the need to take real action here, rather than always regretting the occurrence of such disasters. the member states of the european union should show a real will to act.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking mrs de keyser for her excellent report. i would also like to thank mr salafranca for the good cooperation which has enabled us to adopt such a report by a large majority. syria is not an easy country. it's a difficult country in a difficult region. but if we are to achieve stability and peace in this difficult region, we need the cooperation of syria. as for lebanon, syria should finally recognize that a politically stable and economically strong lebanon is an advantage for syria and not a threat. on iran: we have nothing against friendly relations between syria and iran. you are a very appropriate neighbor! but this friendship must be transformed into a constructive contribution, into a peace process, and not into a blockade. as for israel, i fully understand that syria wants the golan heights back, but syria must recognize that israel has vital security interests, and syria should contribute to the peaceful development of palestine and especially the gaza strip - between the palestinians themselves, but also between the palestinians and israel. it is very important that we have this dialogue and i would like to take up a word that the commissioner said when she spoke about leadership ability. i hope that the syrian president will listen less to the whisperers who have isolated syria in recent years and more to those advisers who want to bring syria back into dialogue with the international community, especially with the european union.
i have to say, madam president, i just wanted to point out that this problem exists not only in greece, but also massively in austria. hotels advertise very aggressively that they don't allow children or families with children. my question is: can anything be done about this, at least in terms of advertising? there are other areas where advertising can be restricted. that might be a possibility.
the council has already taken a decision on this. you mentioned the difficulty of finding the funding for frontex. frontex is supported. do you also think about launching relief actions, such as information campaigns in the countries of origin to make potential migrants aware of the consequences of illegal immigration or the possibilities of legal immigration? are you also considering, as a relief measure, measures which will not allow the legalization of illegals in the same way as before?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as rapporteur for the extension of the european aviation safety agency's remit, i would like to inform you that the committee on transport and tourism has also discussed the issue of whether it would not be sensible to entrust easa with security tasks in the long term. i would be interested to know what the council presidency thinks. my second question is this: one point that strikes me personally is that the privatisation of airport security has also led to the fact that they may not be able to deal with extreme situations with the same efficiency as, for example, the police. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. 6% of all transport is carried by waterways. the commissioner - i thank him for that - has emphasized this again. an ambitious programme is therefore needed to use this spare capacity and improve existing infrastructure. the biggest shortcoming in this area - and this must be noted - is the lack of intermodal nodes. the development of ports and transhipment points is a prerequisite for the development of transport chains that include these transport routes. innovation, which has already advanced in other technical areas of transport, is still lagging far behind. we have a lot of catching up to do in terms of fuels and materials, and this programme is an opportunity to do that. but we must also - and i attach particular importance to this - take the environment very seriously. my colleague has already mentioned this. i would also ask you to support an amendment which we have tabled concerning the transport of dangerous goods by waterway. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's shipping industry is not compromised by the fact that the community is not able to meet the requirements of the treaty. the second issue is the threat of flagging out - that is, the change of flags for ships flying the flag of convenience - which also threatens social standards. we must take this danger into account from the outset. i thank the rapporteur for her excellent report and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. i am very grateful to you and i hope that this will be decided tomorrow in the same form.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. austria is known to be a country of mountains. but it is also, as the austrian national anthem says, 'tomorrow is our national day, so allow me to make this allusion', a country on the river, on the danube. the question of inland waterways is therefore important for our country, as a water link to the west, to the rhine-main-maas system there, but also and above all to the south and east. we in austria know how important it is - not just for our country, but for europe as a whole - that we have a better and, above all, a better functioning system on the water. environmental aspects were discussed, technological aspects and many others. but we also know that we need alternatives to the road, especially for the new and future eu member states. otherwise we'll actually get run over in the streets. and what better alternative could there be than a well-developed and appropriately well-used infrastructure in corridor 7 of the transeuropean network? i am glad that the commission is giving more importance to this important mode of transport. i can only agree with much of what vice-president barrot has said here. we need not only programme declarations, but also implementation, and as soon as possible! i hope that the contributions of the inland waterways conference in vienna, which was held under the austrian presidency, have been useful for our overall theme and will therefore also be important for the opportunities of the future. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs corien wortmann-kool, in particular, for her excellent work on the text and for the good cooperation which has been shown. in particular, it has also been persuaded to fight for the opportunities and opportunities of the 'new europe' in addition to the priorities for the 'old europe'. i repeat what i said: we must now also take advantage of these opportunities!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wish we didn't need a posting policy anymore. commissioner, i am sure that would be in keeping with your wishes. i am not sure whether this law will sufficiently protect workers from exploitation. but we have no other or adequate instrument for the european labour market to prevent problems. it is clear that the main elements of the posting of workers directive are only partially effective - this applies both to the crossborder service of administrative penalties and to cooperation between public authorities. in addition, the non-recognition of allowances as often an essential component of wages leads to additional wage dumping. the minimum requirement for the functioning of the posting directive will probably be that a person should be available who can act as a representative of the posting company in order to ensure the application of the directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. firstly, i would ask that this motion be put to the vote so that you can have the recommendation of this house. secondly, we can only vote on the postponement. the decision on when to put the matter back on the agenda is, of course, a matter for the conference of presidents and, ultimately, the whole house. but i'd also be in favor of postponing both. perhaps we can vote, and you will see the clear will of this house.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the events of 30 september on the border were portrayed by the chinese representatives as if a group of tibetans had attacked them and they had to fight back with great effort. this time, unlike many other cases, there is a video that clearly proves the opposite. this video proves that there was no attack by tibetan refugees, but that it was a group of youths, children, nuns and monks trying to cross the border. the european union strongly rejects the portrayal of the chinese in this context. and it is to be demanded! the commission has also asked for information on what has happened to the children who have been taken into custody by the chinese troops, what is the current situation of these children and refugees and how such situations are normally handled at the border. we as the european union must make it clear that tibet's autonomy within china's borders - but a realised autonomy - should be realised in the way proposed by the dalai lama's 'middle way'.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not during the decades of armed conflict in guatemala, terrible crimes against humanity were committed. 200,000 people were killed, 45,000 were abducted, and some indigenous communities were completely wiped out. the peace agreement will be celebrating its tenth anniversary next december. the global human rights convention has still not been implemented in guatemala, and the victims of the genocide have not been compensated either materially or symbolically. the arrest warrant issued by the spanish supreme court in july 2006 against efrain rios montt is a sign of hope for an end to impunity. we urge the guatemalan authorities to cooperate fully. they must do everything in their power to solve the crimes against humanity. the guatemalan dictator and the other seven defendants are to be arrested and extradited.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as you know, we do not impose anything on thursday afternoons. the european parliament only makes different demands on the various human rights issues around the world. we call on the council, in today's resolution, to extend the sanctions policy and to extend it in certain aspects which have already been discussed. the uzbek government continues to refuse to allow an independent investigation into the andishchan deaths, which has been repeatedly called for by several international institutions and is still being called for. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the un charter on the rights of persons with disabilities. relations with uzbekistan are of great importance to the european union. however, the basis for these relations must be respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for the tenth time this year, the graz european centre organised a european youth meeting with participants from all over europe. this year's meeting was held under the theme european future objectives and focused on the future development of the european union. after a briefing on the european union and its institutions, over 60 international participants took on the role of representatives of these institutions in a role-playing game. several points were worked out. a resolution covering more than 20 subjects included calls for the union's powers to be extended, for the budget to be increased and for the treaty establishing a constitution for europe to enter into force before any further enlargement. the young people are the future of europe, and we should all be very strong in the fight against education and training, because they are our future too!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european people's party welcomes the report presented, which is not only uncontroversial but also accepts the demands, the analysis and the substance of the report. i would also like to comment on six principles. first, the euro is the eu's strongest response to globalisation. secondly, the euro is the most important instrument for a successful single market, but it is not the only instrument. it must be accompanied by a more accelerated implementation of the four freedoms in the internal market, by an innovation offensive, by the removal of structural weaknesses and by the stabilisation of social, pension and health systems. thirdly, all eu member states should become members of the euro area. any member state of the european union which opposes the euro area, which opposes the euro, which does not make every effort to become part of this european monetary area, weakens the internal market and weakens the european union in the face of the developments of globalisation. fourthly, the maastricht criteria are the ticket and i am glad that the commission has clearly adhered to these criteria in its decisions in recent months. fifthly, the stability and growth pact is the necessary budgetary framework. we demand that the surplus revenue be used to reduce the deficit and the national debt. sixthly, i read in the newspaper today that french interior minister sarkozy is calling for a european economic government for the eurozone. if we want to strengthen the european economy, we must ratify the constitution and give the commission the necessary powers. we are therefore in favour of a strong euro in the world and a unified voice in the imf, just as we are in favour of a strong european union in the world through a european foreign minister.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, we can all be proud of the euro. much of what was predicted before its introduction has not come to pass. three points should be emphasized again and again: the first is that the tax revenue now flowing is actually being used to reduce the deficit, as we call for in paragraph 5 of the report. the second is the urgent call for strictness in the maastricht criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the third is transparency. the ecb is far behind global standards. it is not clear why the minutes of the decisions are still not submitted or are only very insufficiently submitted. this is an area that urgently needs improvement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. of course, we in the eurozone must strive to leave our children with as little debt as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension. with mass forced retirement and privatisation in the public sector and one-euro jobs, with more and more employees being pushed into pseudo-independence, i do not think this catch-up is possible. the sale of family silver, which has been frequently carried out in the past in order to be accepted into the euro club, must also come to an end. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. only then will the eurozone be able to flourish in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, we have to make sure that we have a good distribution in the network between large and small providers, between strong central units and regional units, which allows us to build a strong structure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. above all, we also need tax incentives to use the profits currently generated for investment exemptions or reduced depreciation rates. the most important thing, in my view, is to develop contingency plans that give us the chance to shut down the grid quickly and efficiently in the event of a crisis, and then stabilize it as quickly as possible and turn it back on. we must also bring a qualitative aspect to the question of energy security, which means that anyone who is prepared to be taken off the grid quickly can also get a corresponding reduction in prices. conversely, those who want to stay on the internet as long as possible and get back on the internet as quickly as possible should also pay a higher price. we must finally move away from a purely quantitative debate on energy. we need qualitative factors in energy supply which will make it possible, in terms of pricing, for a customer who has absolute security of supply to pay more. on the other hand, if a customer is flexible because he can, for example, obtain the energy for his hot water needs at night or during the day, then he should also receive a correspondingly lower price. everyone should be able to choose his energy supplier, everyone should be able to get electricity from the generator he wants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have not been in the house that long, but i have been in it long enough to see that the position of the committee on agriculture and the committee on budgets is not always so clearly in line with one another, namely the rejection of this draft. the opinion of the committee on budgets naturally focuses on budgetary matters, and here too there are sufficient arguments to support a clear rejection of the commission's proposal. under voluntary modulation, member states can increase non-compulsory rural development spending by several billion euros unilaterally and without full involvement of parliament. this is contrary to the substance and spirit of the interinstitutional agreement. the commission has also failed to give sufficient thought to the budgetary implications of such a voluntary transfer. it is irresponsible, madam commissioner, that she should once again declare herself the council's secretary and not carry out an impact assessment before adopting the proposal. what will be the impact of this proposal on the common agricultural policy? we don't know, you don't know, and yet we should agree with him! we're not doing that! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the significant economic impact of the reform has also been underestimated or insufficiently studied. the proposal also contradicts all previous modulation provisions, since it does not provide for co-financing by the member states. a cheap solution devised by our government leaders to cover the budget gap in the rural areas for which they are responsible. if the council were really interested in increasing the appropriations for the second pillar, it should simply have followed parliament's demands in the context of the financial perspective for 2007-13. we should reject this proposal in a clear and unequivocal way.
i have to say, madam president, i congratulate the court of auditors on a good report, which is a mirror for many. but some people don't want to look in that mirror! it is not right, mr kallas, that this new commission, following the slogan 'we shoot the messenger', does not want to hear the bad news from luxembourg! let's read the treaties again. it states that the commission and no one else! is responsible for the implementation of the european budget. i am only reading where you are not responsible, mr kallas: in the case of the agencies, as you yourself write - we shall talk about this later - or if greece, for example, does not implement the integrated administration and control system (invekos): the commission disappears everywhere. and this is a point which we must seriously discuss as we are dealing with the new commission for the first time. you have to start taking responsibility, mr. kallas, or you're in the wrong place!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not we shall have more transport in the years to come, by land, by water and, above all, by air. more traffic means more problems. the increasing quantity must be managed, the environmental and health problems must be satisfactorily solved, and all this will cost a lot of money. the first thing we need to tackle these issues is to find intelligent solutions, new technologies and better logistics. we should be focusing on these issues today. unfortunately, we're not quite ready for that. i'm talking about galileo, and i'm talking about the other two. but we're still focusing on the preparatory work. how do we structure the administrative organization? what are we going to do about eurocontrol? how do we involve the private sector in our project? and many other things. i would like to say a few words of caution on the subject of public-private partnerships (ppps). we discuss and focus on potential conflicts of interest. it is right and important. but we still have a lot more to do to ensure that the economy actually contributes to our project. the experience of ppp models in the past has been, in any case, almost without exception, not very successful. i refer you to marco polo, because in a few weeks we will be launching the follow-up programme. we have found the right mix of economic incentives and the appropriate integration of public interests. this is what we should be focusing on this time, even more than before. i would also like to thank both rapporteurs for their work and i hope that, despite the question of the european parliament's participation in decision-making or its secondary involvement, we will concentrate on this subject and work together towards our goal. maybe we can make the schedules a little tighter, too. this would do the matter very, very good.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. sesar, if well managed and put into effect as soon as possible, can make a relevant contribution to the reduction of harmful greenhouse gases. good cooperation with weather services and appropriate control of flight altitudes and speeds can prevent urban air loops and condensation strips, which according to recent research are becoming more and more frequent causes of climate problems. a prerequisite for efficient operation is the creation of good airspace blocks, which can help to save fuel. unfortunately, the work on this is very, very slow. austria needs to act here, as do its neighbours to the north and east. as regards the form of organization, which has been a major point of discussion in our committee, i do not think that eurocontrol should be marginalized. the public interest - and this includes, for example, climate protection - must be central to our concerns, and eurocontrol is probably better suited to this than voting rights for industry alone. the participation of industry in this area can also be secured in other ways.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. many thanks to john purvis for the work he has done. the green paper on mortgage credit published by the european commission in july 2005 has triggered intense debate on whether and in what areas eu legislation should take the initiative. the very different legal systems and, above all, funding cultures seem to be at odds with a pan-european regulatory approach. however, the purchase of real estate is the most important spending decision for many households. the same is true of the mortgage loans for financing. studies show that despite the euro and the single market, private customers still turn to a credit institution of their trust, usually their own home bank. this is of course also related to the fact that the mortgage credit market is the most complex of all financial markets. therefore, mortgage lending remains a predominantly national or even local business. less than 1% of mortgages are taken out cross-border. this is probably due to market and tax barriers. further integration would have an estimated net additional benefit of 1% for the european mortgage markets. that is not a small amount, and it would have been done over a period of ten years. so if we want to have a single market for mortgage loans, we have to ensure that new regulation in this area leads to measurable added value for private customers. the pre-contractual comparison of the various credit offers is one of the most important issues from the consumer's point of view. this includes the possibility of early repayment of part of a mortgage loan, the conditions for agreeing variable or fixed interest rates. the comparability and transparency of the methods of calculating various ancillary costs must also be ensured. the new rules must also improve the situation of borrowers with a low or incomplete credit profile and, in particular, enable them to afford mortgage credit. this group includes mainly workers with fixedterm contracts, but also young workers. these potential borrowers are not to be excluded from the mortgage lending market. experience has shown that the voluntary code of conduct, signed by over 3 000 institutions in 2003, has not been de facto respected. here too the commission needs to act and to examine. in any case, further integration of the eu mortgage credit market could benefit both consumers and the economy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. experts agree that the trend towards rural exodus will intensify in the coming years. this is also linked to the massive deaths of farmers. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. we must therefore ensure that small farmers and miners can survive, that there is a level playing field between urban and rural areas, and that we must promote the development of infrastructure and the interconnection of regions. that is why i voted in favour of the daul report in this case.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the citizen is becoming more mobile. working, studying or spending the rest of your life in another eu country is no longer an exception. in this context, a number of complex questions and problems arise in relation to social security, which we have not yet solved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. i am voting for a joint venture for the new generation european air traffic management system. in particular, in my capacity as rapporteur on the extension of the responsibilities of the european aviation safety agency (easa), i fully support the community's stated objective of ensuring an efficient air traffic control infrastructure, which will enable the safe, energy-efficient and environmentally sound development of air transport, taking advantage of the technological advances of programmes such as galileo. the current forecasts suggest that air traffic in europe will double by 2025. for this reason, it is necessary to bring the communication between pilots and air traffic controllers, which is currently still carried by radio, up to the latest technical standard. in order to ensure the success of sesar in the long term, i am in favour of a public-private partnership involving the european community.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, mr president of the commission! we have noted what you have said about the new commission, and in particular about the new commissioner, mr orban. mr president of the commission, there is still a lot to be clarified, particularly in consultation with commissioner figel, for example, who is responsible for the question of intercultural and interreligious dialogue. in any case, it is an enlargement which meets our social democratic aspirations. secondly, we will of course also ask the new commissioners in this context how far they are on the social europe programme and the question of solidarity which you have raised here. the commission is a collegiate body and we will therefore be checking all the new commissioners to see whether they are really committed to this social europe. thirdly, growth and social issues. mr president of the commission, you have rightly presented this as a political programme and important steps have been taken in this direction. let me give you two more examples of where we think we need to make progress. the energy sector in particular - i do not see commissioner piebalgs at the moment - is an important factor for growth and employment. but if a head of government says to us: 'how can we have a common european energy policy if we are only going to liberalize everything', then the commission must set up a political framework for european energy policy. the transeuropean networks: you have once been very vocal in favour of - and we have mentioned it indirectly today - promoting coordination with the actions of the individual countries, because it is right that the individual member states must contribute to this. i ask you to assume this coordinating role. i would like to stress once again that solidarity is the european union's most important objective for us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. mr helmer will certainly defend the british single market, which he regards as geographically limited, without, however, calling into question the principle of a market economy. mr schulz: perhaps we have a semantic problem. for me, the market means meeting the needs of customers and providing a range of services and products that are actually bought by the citizen. that's my understanding of the market. that is why, in my view, your speech was applauded so much. we cannot design the european single market and our future offerings without taking account of the needs of our citizens. the second point which i think is very important is the energy question. energy will be one of the issues, along with agriculture. we will need additional initiatives in the field of renewable energy. in the food sector, as you see the prosperity of china, india and many other countries around the world, we will need a lot of energy for new and good quality food. we have made it our top priority to open up the international market. we should create new opportunities for our farmers, for our food producers, to be able to sell their products here in the future. i would like to say something about the co2 debate: how should we behave if in russia a barrel of crude oil is sold for $8 - plus heavy industry - but we have to pay up to $80 and then we have to pay the co2 levy through emissions trading, so that we have a double burden on our energy and thus on our raw materials industry? how are we to keep jobs here in europe? the debate on these imbalances in the market is urgently needed in the field of foreign policy, and we shall see whether russia will allow its neighbours the same prices as it charges at home. these are the exciting discussions of the future.
i have to say, madam president, i have taken the liberty of making a brief statistical analysis of the commission's work programme and legislative programme, and i have counted 57 non-legislative acts and only 37 legislative acts, which is a far greater number of non-legislative acts. i believe that this confirms a trend which we have recently seen clearly, namely that the commission is increasingly resorting to non-legislative acts, green papers, white papers, communications, etc., and in some cases bypassing the legislator himself. i understand that soft law instruments, at least at first glance, seem to fit better into the better regulation agenda. on the other hand, we must recognize that these instruments lack the enforceability and the binding nature and that they will ultimately only lead to disappointment for citizens and businesses. i would also like to point out some specific points from my own fields of work which i find lacking in the work and legislative programme, namely initiatives which have been envisaged by the commission in other contexts but which are not included here: the harmonisation of the consumer protection acquis, the duration of copyright protection, developments in patent law, the applicability of eu law in sport. a new finding by the ecj fundamentally changes the situation and increases legal uncertainty in this area. the first package of initiatives withdrawn also included the withdrawal of the articles of association for mutual societies and the articles of association for european associations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't see her here. perhaps they are classified as non-priority initiatives. i don't care if they're a strategic priority or not. it would be important for us to know whether we can expect that.
the commission has already done so. i can agree with what you have just said: research is important, but the training and education of students is also one of the very high objectives of universities. i have had the sad experience in my civilian career as a professor that some universities, especially those which are always mentioned at the top of the rankings - the elite british universities such as oxford and cambridge - are very, very reluctant to participate in the erasmus programme, unlike many other universities. can participation in the erasmus programme also be a criterion?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. fine dust emissions are a current issue in diesel vehicles. we as the european parliament, together with the council, set high emission levels. what's on the issue page? is there any legislation here for diesel vehicles, which is aimed at the motor vehicle industry?
i'm not going to tell you. this co2 emission has global implications, and of course global co2 emissions have european implications. the question therefore is: to what extent is the commission aware of figures from other so-called industrial centres on the state of emission reductions in those centres? secondly, is the commission also trying to influence this?
the commission has already done so. europeans are traditionally more drinkers. however, alcohol consumption has been declining for years, even without taxes and warnings. the example of the united states is a good example of what happens when alcohol consumption is criminalized. the youth are turning to designer drugs. would it not be better if the commission stepped up the fight against illegal drugs rather than demonizing and taxing the european cultural drug - alcohol - at ever higher rates?
i'm not going to tell you. perhaps i should start by saying that i found your reflections very refreshing. on the specific question: in the migration and asylum policy within the european union, one gets the impression that most european countries follow the motto: everyone does what he wants, no one does what he should, but everyone does, even though we already know that it is probably only a uniform european migration and asylum policy that makes sense. the question therefore is: what efforts is the commission making to achieve a uniform migration policy and how long do you think it will take for migration policy to become a european competence?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. to what extent are the local authorities in the western balkan countries and in the countries you mentioned willing to cooperate with the european union in the field of a common security and foreign policy, but also in the fight against organized crime?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. firstly, for regulatory reasons we have excluded gambling and casinos from the services directive. i say this even though i am a clear supporter of strengthening the internal market. we didn't want to throw the baby out with the bath. second, gambling involves many risks. therefore, the commission's argument for infringement proceedings should not be limited to the argument of competition law and the internal market. thirdly, we need a clear definition. what does the term "gambling" encompass when we talk about it? given the different treatment of online markets, sports betting, slot machines, casinos and lotteries, a uniform definition is needed to ensure that they are treated equally everywhere, and probably a uniform legal framework. fourthly, other important areas, commissioner, such as consumer protection, health, taxation, international trade, money laundering, prevention of addiction, the fight against crime and organised crime, must also be taken into account. fifthly, almost all member states regulate gambling. eleven have special legal models, four have a limited licensing model. sixth, state lotteries recorded sales of €63 billion in 2004. this means an average net expenditure of 140 euros per head. this means that, seventhly, about 33% of all revenues are used for good causes and taxes. if the private sector were liberalised, it would be only 3%. eighthly, the contribution to employment in the eu is estimated at some 13 billion. ninthly, 195 000 jobs within the eu can be attributed to the sale of lotteries. i ask you to take these arguments into account in your assessment.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not on behalf of the socialist group - and in particular robert goebbels, who unfortunately cannot be here today - i would of course like to thank mrs evelyne gebhardt. the rapporteur has steered the ship of the services directive well through some stormy seas. i would also like to thank the colleagues from the other groups, in particular the epp. of course, our differences in social policy will remain, but i believe we have fulfilled our responsibility to find a concrete solution acceptable to the citizens of the european union. i would like to thank in particular commissioner mccreevy - without whom it would not have been possible to organise this process so well - and the council presidencies, in particular the finnish one, but also the austrian one. my request to the council: do not forget that the austrian presidency has set a precedent by inviting us as members of parliament to a council meeting! this possibility should be open to other contexts as well and not be an isolated case. i would also like to thank the european trade union confederation, which has consulted with us very intensively and has also made it possible to reach a compromise here. i myself was born at the junction of the former west and east, between vienna and bratislava. i therefore know the fears, but also the hopes, which are associated with a common market in services. if today in some of the countries in transition, but also in the existing so-called old member states of the european union, nationalism and protectionism are gaining ground again, it may be because people feel overwhelmed by the speed, sometimes even the brutality, with which this common market is being established. it was therefore very important to find a way of creating this common market - we need it! - but also to meet social requirements. politics at the level of the european union is not just about removing the obstacles to a common market - that is part of politics - but also about creating the political conditions for people to accept this common market. for these reasons my group will be in full agreement! of course there are some reservations - they will be raised - but overall my group stands by the good compromise we have reached! we should have the courage to accept this compromise today and to defend it in the outside world. once again, my heartfelt thanks to evelyne gebhardt! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the year has started with demonstrations against the directive. it ends with a triumph of parliamentarism. we have not blocked each other, we have not allowed ourselves to be exploited, but most of us have leapt over our own shadows, have taken responsibility for the citizens of europe. this european law is a success of the european parliament and of dialogue. it should encourage all parliaments. we are the legislators, not the governments. we have shown leadership and broken the gordian knot. keep it up! freedom to provide services is a fundamental right! we are taking an important step in the management of this freedom with this resolution today. this decision has also removed many prejudices against the european union. firstly, the directive is a success of the european model of social market economy, where we do not play the market against social security. we must make the four freedoms a reality, but we should also make citizens more involved to the same extent. secondly, we have had a dialogue with the social partners. we have made ourselves part of the negotiations in the council. i would like to thank minister bartenstein and chancellor schüssel for coming to our side. we have thus achieved more markets, we have strengthened the internal market, we have achieved growth and employment and we have achieved social security. i would also like to thank all the members, especially those who did not want to support the effort to obtain a qualified majority in the first reading from the outset, because the compromise is always more difficult to defend than the individual point of view. we have simplified a lot, created legal certainty and presented a model of parliamentary work to the citizens. (applause from the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if i understand correctly, the president should be in charge of the vote. he has more than a dozen deputies. if he's really been prevented, then at least one of these deputies should be here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of linguistic experts. the limitation of the proportion of foreigners in school classes to 30% should, however, be taken for granted in order to facilitate integration, maintain quality standards and reduce potential for cultural conflict. in my view, therefore, a sufficient command of the mother tongue before the start of regular education and, if necessary, increased language support, for example in the form of an additional year of kindergarten or preschool education, should become the eu norm.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the coordinated proposal for a directive on services has, i am convinced, achieved a good compromise between the freedom to provide services on the one hand and the need for restrictions in the interests of workers and small and mediumsized enterprises on the other. that is why i have agreed to this report. it is now up to the member states to monitor compliance with the provisions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i would like to ask the council, the presidency, which is not here at the moment, to make the necessary efforts to persuade the member states to prepare the appropriate control mechanisms for the implementation of the services directive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i thank karl von wogau for this report, because it is comprehensive, because it is pragmatic and because it is also courageous. i share the view - shared by 70% of the european population and by a large part of the european parliament - that the only promising response to the major threats, ranging from terrorism to failed states, is ultimately a pan-european security strategy. it must be constantly adapted if europe is to remain an area of security, freedom and prosperity. the fact that there will be little support for increased military spending in the future calls for us to use the means and resources available more efficiently than we have done so far. the european security and defence policy therefore needs common standards, common research and development and a common procurement system. we need a common system of aerial and space-based reconnaissance and common standards for telecommunications. we need close strategic cooperation between the forces involved in external and internal security. the current deployment of troops in the congo shows that while there are successes to be achieved through these dedicated troop deployments, there are just as many shortcomings to be addressed. the eu - we all know this - is a giant in economic policy, but a dwarf in security policy. but if this european union is to become a political union, it must abandon its security policy role of tramp and put aside national animosities in favour of a better whole. we therefore need a community security policy, which should also be financed by the community, the participation and control of the european parliament and a political head for european security policy in the form of a deputy foreign minister. this report also sets out this approach. it is therefore not only courageous but also forward-looking in the interests of a safe europe for the citizens of europe.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the rapporteur and our committee chairman for his report and also for having been able to take account of some of my amendments after the committee debates. i think today is a good day to talk about something that's not so funny: death, inheritance. we have adopted the services directive at second reading. thank god there was no exception for the funeral services, as many had wished. this evening we are discussing european initiatives in the field of inheritance law. i want to clear up a misunderstanding right from the start. there's obviously been a technical error. i don't want to remove the binding effect of the will, i just want to remove the next words "unless and until proven otherwise". on the contrary, i want to strengthen the binding effect of the will, not abolish it. i shall make this clear to the bureau, and perhaps under these circumstances it will be possible for the other groups to agree here. amendment no 3 is now acceptable, i hope. we suggest that the residence should be at least two years old to serve as a point of reference. it should not be that someone is faced with surprising legal effects from a short-term change of residence. we also do not want to make it too easy for someone to escape his home inheritance by moving his residence to the detriment of his family members. i would now like to promote my other amendments, which provide for conformity assessment. in the first recommendation we undertake not to interfere with the procedural law of the member states. i believe that this conformity assessment is contrary to the principle of non-interference with the substantive law, but also with the procedural law of the member states. i hope that with these explanations the other groups will perhaps be able to agree to our amendments.
the commission has already done so. the report by mrs bauer not only provides a thorough analysis of the dramatic situation, but also very comprehensive suggestions on how strategies to combat human trafficking, one of the most cruel branches of organised crime, can be successfully implemented. i support these proposals, which range from improving the legal framework to measures to reduce demand, measures to protect victims, to proposals for better coordination of the various measures at national and european level. i would suggest, however, that a few corrections be made, which would specify in detail what measures the member states must take to protect victims, for example in the areas of access to the labour market, housing, education, etc., whether or not victims are prepared to cooperate with the authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, including the introduction of a system of penalties for the trafficking of human beings. i would also like to thank commissioner frattini in particular for the very concrete and sustained measures he has taken. i am very much in favour of the fact that you are now threatening those member states with consequences who have not yet been prepared to implement the relevant directives, regulations and international conventions. this is simply unacceptable. the un and the european union have finally to be followed by action in the member states.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr ombudsman, mr schwab, you have been very helpful in this matter. i would like to thank you both in particular for the excellent work that has been done and i hope that mr schwab, who comes from rottweil, can continue to bite as hard - also politically - as this famous breed of dog. i wish him luck in that regard. you too, mr ombudsman, have an important role to play, and in particular, i believe, you are the liaison between the citizens and the european institutions. whenever citizens have concerns about the european institutions, they turn to you. so here you have to balance, and you try to find solutions. of the 3 920 complaints lodged last year, more than 75% of the cases were resolved by the complainants themselves, either by initiating investigations or by referring the matter to the competent authorities. that is an extremely high percentage! the commission also has a very important role to play in this context. it is trying to demonstrate its openness again and again through various transparency initiatives, and i can only support it in this, and in particular you, madam vice-president, in continuing on this path. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so please continue your transparency initiative! i would like to say to my polish colleague that i think it is extremely hypocritical of him to accuse the commission of giving information on the constitutional treaty only in a positive light. the publications i have seen were all fairly objective and necessary to make the citizens aware of what was at stake. (applause from the centre) on the one hand, to ask for more information, but on the other hand to say, please, do not continue here, is really hypocritical! we must therefore continue along this path together in order to build this common europe. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you can turn anything into a science and get some really interesting results. the white paper on communication, which we are voting on today, falls into this category. but if the house is on fire, you should do your best to locate the source, contain it, and take a fire extinguisher with you, and not philosophize about fire, or the hut will burn down. the eu has a massive communication problem. it's not a good image. the worst complaint from citizens is that we are too bureaucratic, our laws are too vague and do them no good. of course it's not true. but that's what we need to communicate. we often fail here. the most recent example is the eu safety regulations on hand luggage on flights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but in their eyes, the arsonist is not osama bin laden or any other terrorist figure, but brussels. it's our fault they can't even bring a water bottle on board. we are ridiculed for asking for 100ml containers, when there are no such containers in the entire eu internal market. i now ask the commission, which is the very one that drafted this secret law: what have you done to improve communication on this matter? have you distributed leaflets to all passengers asking for sympathy? i didn't notice any of that. did you rely on media reports? that's not enough. you have to go directly to the citizens, because you are intervening directly in their lives. they're restricting their freedoms with these security measures. so you must have very good arguments. it's communication work. for two and a half years now, we've been working to improve communications, but all we've gotten is head-channel births. that's the opposite of effective communication. if we become more practical, more concrete, we do not make communication a pure science, but we simply see it for what it really is: a tool, comparable to a fire extinguisher when it burns.
the commission has already done so. we have just heard of the referenda on the draft european constitution in the netherlands and france. it is also important to explain the reasons for voting in this way, because this is not due to a failure of the european union. the majority of the european people have already voted for the constitution! but you have to think about communication. the white paper lays out some practical proposals. but to close the knowledge gap, it is necessary to develop and promote high-quality public relations at all levels. this will include more information points which can provide competent answers to citizens who often wander aimlessly through the cities looking for contacts. we need more media at the local, regional and national level. here, most media often provide negative coverage. but the council too speaks a different language in brussels or here in strasbourg than the citizens know at home: the eu is to blame for the fact that some decisions have been taken in the negative. you have to start here too! it is therefore important to promote dialogue with the council, the commission, parliament and also with citizens, as called for in the report. then maybe we'll have a chance! i am in favour of emphasizing the importance of the programmes. we have, for example, the leonardo and erasmus programmes, which contribute a great deal to communication. but we are cutting their funding instead of increasing it. active citizenship, partnerships between cities, etc. are important things we need and are better than countless pamphlets; and here it is cutting in the wrong place! article 308 would be a weakening of parliament! parliament is not mentioned at all in this article. we're out front, and we have to fight back!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is a difficult market. this is not a statement about the european labour market, but a fact about eu information. europe deals with highly complex matters, and our procedures are long and tedious. it is therefore difficult to explain to the citizens of europe what they have to gain from europe. but we are partly to blame for this misery. the european commission, in its efforts to be objective, finds it impossible to say a clear and unequivocal 'yes' to the european constitution. our administration in parliament is doing everything possible to keep visitors in brussels and strasbourg locked up in the back room or in the cellar as far as possible. we therefore need new and better information and not a dispute over the legal basis. we need well-edited television reports on european work that people can benefit from. we don't need glossy pamphlets that nobody reads and everyone throws away.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i propose the following amendment to our amendment no 3: in the english text, the word "deceased" is to be substituted for "testator" twice, and the period for the existence of a residence is to be reduced from three to two years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the amendment seeks to delete some words from the original text of our rapporteur, but some words have been deleted too much. the words with binding effect should be left in place and not deleted.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the outcome of the parliamentary elections on 15 may 2005 has led to a return to a repressive political atmosphere in ethiopia, which is why we are once again discussing ethiopia in debates in parliament. the election manipulation and repressive response to the popular unrest have cost the government credibility at home and abroad and destabilized ethiopia. only a resumption of the democratization process with the participation of the opposition parties can counteract this process. a year ago, the ethiopian parliament set up a commission to investigate the killings of june and november 2005. we call on the ethiopian government to publish the final report of the commission of inquiry immediately, unchanged and in full. the results must be presented to the relevant courts and serve as a basis for fair trial. we also call on the ethiopian government to release all political prisoners immediately and unconditionally.
a writer. the commission has already done so. it is regrettable that we have to write resolutions again and again on human rights violations in various countries. in the last two years, six resolutions, declarations and reports have been drawn up by various institutions and organisations on iran. unfortunately, we must note that the situation in iran has not improved, but has worsened. freedom of expression and the press are being violated, the internet is being censored and independent newspapers are being shut down. the islamic republic of iran is said to have the highest number of imprisoned journalists in the middle east. torture is common. in many discussions within the interparliamentary delegation we have been assured time and again that all these allegations do not correspond to the facts. unfortunately, the people who are affected tell us otherwise. women's rights are not respected. for example, women were prevented from publicly celebrating international women's day. a demonstration on 12 june by women and men who were fighting against legal discrimination against women was violently broken up. the first visit of a majlis delegation to the european parliament was a step in the right direction to seek dialogue with the members and the civilian population. respect for human rights and dignity was a central theme of this debate. we have been informed that all the accusations against iran are not factual. we now call on the iranian delegation to the majlis and on the iranian government to do everything possible to put these statements into practice and confirm them. the eu-iran human rights dialogue has also stalled and we should see that we finally get a new date. the commissioner, perhaps you could also consider a radio and television channel which would make it possible to send european policies and information to iran to help the people there.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. mr president, i also extend my warm greetings on behalf of our group. thank you for coming. you said no one knows what the future holds for the constitutional treaty. i have to admit, i'd feel a lot better if i could just figure out what the government's doing with the constitution. a year and a half of reflection, a pause. a year and a half, already extended by a year! what's the result? i don't see or hear anyone thinking, no one talking to us. you're one of the few who did that today. we may come back to your suggestions. but what is actually thought or clarified in those one and a half years? the big guys don't ask what's causing the crisis. they do not ask the question of the motives of those who said no in france and the netherlands, the question of the disappointed expectations of the citizens and why these citizens are systematically disappointed. they are not asking for new ways out of this crisis. where is all this thinking done? i do not see that there will be a real upheaval in the german presidency of the council. mr. prime minister, i was really there from the beginning. it was not insight or idealism, nor was it a visionary outburst on the part of the heads of government that led to this constitutional process. it was the sad fact of half the failure of amsterdam, the whole failure of nice, a massive crisis of confidence in all the european populations. it was the total blockade of this union, its simple inability to act. now it came to a double no. it would be necessary to investigate why. i'm surprised that politicians love polls, and when there's a good poll, i've never heard of anyone being shy about quoting it. after the french and dutch votes, there were very extensive, serious eurobarometer surveys on the reasons and on what the citizens expected. and i am not talking about those who said yes, after all, these are now 18 countries with a massive majority of the population and of the countries in europe. i am speaking of those who said no: 62% of the dutch and 65% of the french who said no say: yes, we want a european constitution, we want it to be revised, and they even say what the aim is: more social competence for this union. i've never heard a member of the government reflect on that. i'm very surprised by what you said today. they are basically making two well-known proposals: treaty instead of constitution. mr president, it has only irritated the governments, but not the people of europe, that this political community should be given a democratic constitution. the commission's proposal to force concrete policies to do so - as you suggest - fails precisely because of the crisis of confidence and democracy in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you see, my group has organised a collection for the speaking time today. this is the new european rhetoric: a speech in sequences. mr president, i have already said that in these two years of reflection there has been no reflection. but the much-anticipated european debate with the citizens has not taken place either. the commission's plan d is a piece of paper. i am now hearing all the promises of governments who do not tire of presenting their plans to save the constitution. and yet, if i listen closely, i'm fine, just like with the trojan horse. if you listen to the wooden horse, you can hear the guns rattling and you can hear other intentions. this is not what we have been hearing and discussing in the european public for years, nor what i believe to be the causes of this crisis. what do we hear from governments? we make a deal! the last thing we need is an international organization. it is not a political community that defeats nationalism. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the citizens want a constitution because they see that this is a political community, because the promise of european political unity was the political unity of this continent. no, we'll hear about the contract again. you promised more competition today. i have not heard the call for more competition in hundreds of discussions and events in the netherlands, france or anywhere else in europe. it's only the elites, it's only the neoliberals, it's only the governments that are always screaming for more competition. i say this because i have the opportunity to respond to what the citizens are telling me: we need a balance between economic and political integration. we need a social union. how many times are you going to present the lisbon process to the european public, year after year, in an intergovernmental, autocratic way, with zero balance sheets, with zero balance sheets? that is what the citizens are demanding. what about the governments' talk about a social union, about ending tax dumping and social dumping in europe? that is what the people want. you talk about feeling safe. let me call this a bit populist. it always seems to appeal to safety. but the charter of fundamental rights has not been mentioned for months, nor has parliamentary scrutiny, as the cia kidnappings and the unexplained cooperation of european governments with the cia have shown. there is no talk of strengthening parliamentarism, of a charter of fundamental rights that can be challenged, of protecting citizens - that is what they are talking about! i always hear different things in the trojan horse: military cooperation security again. but i hear nothing about a common, democratic, autonomous foreign policy, a responsible role in the world and within the wto, defending a fair world trade system and putting development policy on a different level. i feel that the citizen has disappeared in this crisis. the governments in armor and in knightly costumes are again in front of us and are standing in the way of europe.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not as the two representatives of the council and the commission have not clearly stated but have indicated, we are certainly in a difficult phase in relations between the european union and russia. my group was in favour of opening negotiations with russia because this would have been the test of whether russia was actually prepared to have fair negotiations and fair results. but we do understand what prompted poland to veto this. and if there are discriminatory measures - and this is how i understood the commissioner - then poland deserves our full solidarity. we cannot tolerate discriminatory or unfair measures being taken against one or more member states of the union. secondly, it is absolutely necessary that the european union should act together. it is not possible for individual countries to launch unilateral actions, allowing russia to pick out certain countries and negotiate with them separately. i hope that the solidarity within the european union will continue. thirdly, we need to support our common neighbours who are in a difficult situation, particularly in relation to russia. we have developed ideas for a kind of eu-black sea community - we will discuss this in parliament in december - to provide support to these people. fourthly, the question of human rights: we will not be silent about this, whether we start negotiating or not. but it is impossible to accept that president putin, on the one hand, says he has nothing to do with all this, but on the other hand, does not ensure that those responsible are brought to justice. the russian president is now really being asked to take over this matter fully. none of us - at least not my group - wants a new cold war with russia. but we will not be silent as long as there are human rights violations like the current ones, which lead to the death of people fighting for freedom of expression in russia. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is always exciting to see how different arguments can be used to reach different conclusions. i too, although for very different reasons, am one of those who oppose this enlargement, because i am firmly convinced that you, commissioner, and the decision-makers who actually started this all years ago, without acting with the necessary transparency and democratic legitimacy, are choosing the wrong strategy here. the european union is not going to be able to achieve the result that is constantly being called for here and to which i will continue to subscribe, namely that of being pro-european. it is said that my own country will be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the enlargements already under way. but you have to realize that in the last decade, only the top one percent of income earners have actually had real wage growth, the top ten have been able to stay around, and the entire middle class is being driven apart. this is very much because, in addition to the process which my predecessor mentioned, there is another process which is taking place, namely outsourcing, which does not create the social bases in the countries through which we could arrive at a really meaningful social model for a strong europe. i believe history will judge you, commissioner, and those who make the wrong decision tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as vice-chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i had the opportunity to lead a delegation to romania in september to learn more about the use of european funds. i have the impression, as does the whole delegation, that romania is making a great effort to use the union funds to our mutual advantage. the commission is also working on the fight against corruption, cooperation in the field of justice and cooperation with the anti-fraud office. it is particularly gratifying to see how european money is actually being used to reduce the suffering of many children in a meaningful way. this is a good example of how european money can be put to good use. the only problem is if you occasionally throw too much money at a country like that. this is of course a commission problem. we must remember that we should be prepared to use the safeguard clauses we have introduced for the sake of an orderly accession process, as mr brok has already mentioned. i think the countries - and romania in particular - are on the right track, as far as we can judge. we should accompany them as well as possible on this journey.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and the commission. it is a tremendous achievement to increase the budget by some 63% compared with the sixth programme! it shows that the lisbon agenda, the focus we have put on it, is right. this has the full support of parliament and the council. we have been working for many years now to make improvements. the compromises reached are a crucial boost to employment and growth. i'm already thinking about the eighth programme today. if we have achieved 63% this time, i hope that we will continue to achieve the same rate of increase in the eighth programme. but far more importantly, we have now done the technical work and the real work is only just beginning. in 2009 we will have elections to the european parliament again, and there will be a new commission. until then, we still have time to sell our successes. i would ask you to sit down with commissioner wallström and the president of the commission and to work out a concept of how we can make it as clear as possible to the groups involved for whom we have drawn up the programme - in universities, in the workplace, in all branches - that we have drawn up this programme for the future of europe and that it will help us to position ourselves correctly in the global competition with new products and services. if we are going to spend over 50 billion euros on product policy, i would ask that we agree on a budget that we spend on marketing and public relations, so that what has been achieved in simplification, this huge work that we have done here for europe, is also communicated to the people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but given the importance of bulgaria and romania and this accession, we can exceptionally agree.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ppp delegation voted for amendment no 2 to the van orden report and thus secured a majority for this amendment. this clarified and ensured that article 30 of the protocol on the conditions and arrangements for the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union is respected, that is, that the treaty is fulfilled and that therefore - this is the consequence - reactors 3 and 4 of the kosloduy 2006 nuclear power plant must be closed. the fact that the closure of kosloduy was thus secured means that the delegation of the austrian people's party also voted in favour of the whole report and thus in favour of the accession of bulgaria.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of fp7. on the other hand we underline that the compromise found on funding of research using human embryos and human embryonic stem-cells does not reflect the position of the epp-ed group as fixed before the first reading in june. in a vote after discussion on many occasions, a big majority of the group supported amendment 319 by niebler and others, who sought to fix a deadline. we regret that the european parliament did not support this amendment, especially because only 19 votes more were needed for the necessary majority. the epp-ed accepts that, according to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, amendment 319 cannot be tabled for the second reading. this does not change the position of the epp-ed group in this area. we welcome the declaration of the commission on article 6 and we ask the commission and the regulatory committee to bear in mind that almost 50% of the european parliament voted for a more limited approach in this sensitive area. therefore, we ask the commission and the regulatory committee to approve a careful approach when implementing fp7 and the procedure prescribed in the commission declaration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that's a very difficult question. i would like to hear the explanation why they want to replace it with burma now. it is not just the poor nurses and medical staff in libya that we want to be on our backs. i want to hear an explanation before i can speak for or against. if there are good reasons for making the sisters' lot more difficult, we would like to abstain. but the message from this parliament must be that we are criticizing libya for not releasing these sisters.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we can agree with the substance of these arguments, although we shall abstain, also as regards the replacement. but i would like to stress once again - and i hope we are in agreement - that we will oppose these measures taken in libya and that the interests of libyan nurses and medical staff will continue to be represented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. two facts worry me as a european citizen and as a european politician. firstly, the structural deficits of the european union in energy policy, the consequences of which were only repeatedly brought to our attention at the beginning of november. secondly, the quality of european relations with russia. it is quite obviously negligent to deny our current dependence on foreign nationalized energy corporations. the fact that economic and political interests are merging in the next step and are entering the political level playing field is a sad fact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu-russia relationship cannot be such that we have to conceal our concerns about human rights violations and press freedom violations in order to have any hope of having successful energy talks. we need to be clear about this: there will either be a europe of values or there will soon be no europe at all.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank guido sacconi very much for his excellent work. reach is certainly by far the most difficult dossier in this parliament. i am convinced that our rapporteur was able to achieve the best possible result in the negotiations with the council and the commission, and the negotiations within the european parliament were also a very difficult task. if you listened carefully, you would notice that almost none of the political groups in their own ranks have a clear line of thought. the criticism has shown how difficult it must be to achieve a compromise even within parliament. like guido sacconi and many other members of this house, i have always been a strong advocate of worker protection and of environmental and consumer protection. i'd prefer a more rigorous compromise. i have made the same remark after the first reading and during the debate on the first reading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not think that the amendments tabled to tighten up the common position have a chance of reaching the qualified majority. we have already started an attempt at going beyond the compromise of guido sacconi at the first reading and we have not even reached a simple majority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's chemical industry is not left behind. if we take account of the majority in the council and of the fact that germany will take over the presidency of the council from 1 january 2007, i wonder what expectations we can have of a mediation led by the german presidency. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and parliament once again on the result and believe that the compromise is a small step in the right direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the french philosopher voltaire once said: "all fanaticism is dangerous". i think this debate is a good example of that. i have the impression, when i listen to my green colleagues, my colleagues from the union for a europe of nations and the extreme left, that only losers can agree to such a package. let us compare the advantages of reach with its disadvantages. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. so rejecting reach would certainly be bad for all parties. it is therefore up to us to communicate this correctly. because when you look at the media, it seems like everybody's losing. our skill will now be measured by how effectively we can change that impression. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. that's why we should keep working on it. i also have to take the media into account, whose task it is to give a true picture of this new legislation, especially at this stage. the second stage will then be about putting this picture into practice. it will be very difficult to do so, because we know the usual game: the union is always to blame. the legal form of this directive is that it must be implemented by the member states and it will be a matter of ensuring that it is correctly implemented and applied. we are faced with a really big task here, which all the parts have to do. the commission is also calling on the member states to provide a strong agency to ensure that we have uniform rules and not another patchwork of 25 or 27 different regulations. so we have a lot of work to do and the hope of having a reach-free year in 2007 is not likely to be fulfilled.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur for this very balanced report. it is, as my predecessors, and in particular dr kindermann, have already said, a technical report which brings about the adjustments we urgently need. flexibility is essential in crisis situations. quick help is double help when such crisis situations arise. but it takes a careful response and a careful action. but prevention is better than action. a longstanding demand of the committee on agriculture is that imports of live animals from non-eu countries be controlled as intensively as they are within the eu. animal health - we all know this - has a direct impact on the products produced from animals and, ultimately, on the health of our citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health standards are not exceeded.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, because mr graefe zu baringdorf has really tried to reach a consensus with all the members of the committee on agriculture. i support two main amendments because i believe that too detailed and well-intentioned explanations often lead to more confusion than clarity. i fully support the need for the competent authorities to be informed in emergency situations of the exact particulars of the individual feed materials contained in the feed in question and for this information to be made public. of course, there is some debate about what constitutes an emergency. i think that in the end, common sense will decide. secondly, the proposal for a new regulation of the feed law will be made by mid-2007 as part of the simplification programme. i think we've all learned from the mistakes of history. the bse crisis of the late 1990s was hopefully a one-off extreme situation that will never happen again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the programme for simplifying food and feed law is also moving in the same direction. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european market is not only open to competition, but also to competition between firms. but we must also allow international competition in europe.
the commission has already done so. we have set ourselves the ambitious goal of increasing official development assistance and reducing global poverty by half by 2015. but we are still a long way from achieving these goals. i believe that development aid must be provided at short notice where it is lacking, such as in refugee regions or in countries in crisis. in the long term, however, it cannot replace functioning systems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the example of africa in particular shows that development cooperation does not always work as it should ideally. no wonder, since it has been used many times to boost donor countries' exports, to support dictators, or to make states dependent on debt. it is therefore not appropriate for china, for example, to encourage newly indebted countries to take on debt and to build up new dependencies, just to secure supplies of raw materials. but it is also not possible that states are eager to receive development funds, but are not even willing to take back their own citizens after a wave of refugees.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank christa klaß for the excellent work she has done. at first glance, it is surprising to ask who can be against groundwater protection. the answer would of course be 'no one' but we can see that some of our colleagues in the united kingdom still think that there are regulations being made here that we do not need. it must be clear to everyone that our first food, our most important source of life, must be protected. it may have even spread to the uk that groundwater does not stop at national borders. that is why we have the task of making regulations for the whole of europe. it is a first step which has been taken here, and in that respect i agree with mrs breyer in part. we have to keep working on it. but let 's just say this: we have set uniform standards for pesticides and nitrates. member states are invited to set limit values for 10 other pollutants, depending on their national circumstances. we have succeeded in introducing a prohibition on deterioration after tough negotiations. these are all milestones in the right direction. to say that europe is doing nothing would be a completely wrong approach. i would also remind you that there is now even the possibility of making up for the loss of income that has been mentioned through european funds. so here too the european union is helping farmers, who are certainly having some difficulties in implementing it, by providing the necessary funds. member states are also encouraged to achieve comparable arrangements through uniform measurement and testing procedures. i think we have taken a very good step in the right direction, but it is only a first step and we must continue to work on it. i think it would be a fundamental mistake to call for less europe here.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to join in the congratulations to the rapporteur, mrs christa klaß. the adoption of this compromise by the conciliation committee brings us to the end of the legislative procedure on this very important subject. groundwater is the most sensitive source of fresh water in the european union and is one of the main sources of public drinking water supply, not only in my country but in many european regions. the protection of our groundwater requires uniform standards for the most important pollutants throughout europe. this is the only way to avoid distortions of competition and environmental dumping. the directive sets european-wide limit values for nitrates and pesticides, while member states must set their own threshold values for other pollutants such as arsenic, mercury, lead and chloride. the nitrate limit value is set at 50 mg. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. agricultural activities are still the main source of pollution of our groundwater in many regions of europe. in order to better protect groundwater, many areas need to change their agricultural and forestry practices. the groundwater directive requires member states to take all necessary measures to prevent the discharge of dangerous substances into groundwater. the member states are now obliged to take these measures and not merely to aim at them. this is another important success of the conciliation procedure. the right of member states to take more stringent measures is already enshrined in the treaties, but i am pleased that this principle has been explicitly reinstated in the groundwater directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask that the chairman or chairs be given a little more time to speak if it is clear that we are going to end the sitting earlier. it is not good for visitors to come into a hall hoping to hear a somewhat interesting debate and then find an empty hall. a little more flexibility would be possible here, and the members would be happy too. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need to inform consumers without mercy to curb meat scandals and the use of genetic engineering through the back door. but it is not right that we should impose strict food regulations on our own farmers and producers, which are regularly circumvented when importing from third countries. i think that this is unfair to our farmers. it is counterproductive in terms of consumer protection and must therefore be eliminated immediately. that is why i voted against the thyssen report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nature has a long memory. for example, in austria, thanks to the eu's groundwater 2010 programme, groundwater pollution from the past 20th century is now being worked up. the nitrate content due to agriculture is a major problem in some regions, making it difficult to maintain the chemical status now required. this underlines once again the importance of organic and environmentally sound management practices, which, if properly used, can make an important contribution. i think that is why it is important to massively increase the support for such management methods. that is why i voted for the klaas report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted for the compromise, although i also believe that it would have been desirable to have uniform european rules for all dangerous substances, because groundwater is extremely important as the first foodstuff. let us also consider that our health and that of our children are at stake here. saving money in the short term will become a problem in the long term for both the government and the health systems. i therefore call on all member states to implement everything strictly now and at the same time to work on a further package of legislation with more ambitious limits.
in writing. we owe it to our people and to the environment to put an end to the policy of promoting transport across europe immediately. if cancer and respiratory diseases have risen to become the fourth leading cause of death in the eu, it is already five in twelve. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. finally, in more and more european cities, problem areas have become concentrated, where law enforcement and security forces are perceived as intruders, where there is a massive decline in values and where the state order is no longer accepted. not only in paris, but also in berlin, for example, there are areas of the city where a fire cannot be extinguished in time or where the injured cannot be transported away because communication with the angry foreign crowd is not possible, where helping hands run the risk of being attacked or robbed. so-called no-go areas, where even the police are only breaking in more and more. that is how it started in france and we all know where it has led. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the region is not worsened.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs hieronymi and mrs reding. television is on the verge of a revolution. there are differing opinions on how this revolution will end, but one thing is certain: television will become more democratic. in future, it will not be the sole responsibility of a few large broadcasters to produce and control the content of television. the example of youtube already shows where the rabbit is running. the internet as a new platform for viewing, the consumer as his own tv director. television is a vibrant industry which we must strengthen in europe, especially if we are to open up this sector to creative people as a labour market. all the new ideas in the audiovisual field in the united states have recently come from television, not from hollywood films, for example the series 24. let us not be guided by prejudice, or there will be a bad awakening. we need a creative industry here in europe. too many restrictions - especially on advertising, the only source of income other than fees - are particularly damaging to creatives and ultimately lead to more trash or cheap imports and less european production.
the commission has already done so. one year ago, commissioner, you presented the document. i think a lot has happened in that time. the report is very mature and there are many acceptable compromises on the table. the debate shows that there is a major focus here, advertising, which is a problem for many people and which is why we must discuss it. but how do we balance advertising to protect the consumer and to enable artists to bring good, high-quality products to the market without increasing the price? you can't get around the publicity. we have been dealing with product placement for a long time and have generally banned it with a few exceptions. we will have to look at how countries deal with it and how it is applied. it must not in any way lead to the advertising product determining the content. the limits have to be clearly defined, and i think bmw has been driving when bavarian crime series are played for a long time and that has not bothered anyone until now. i would also like to mention briefly the principle of country of origin, because this is also very important and must not lead to media companies deliberately moving their production to other countries in order to counteract lower requirements. we must also do something about this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can go straight to what my predecessor has already said. i think the budgetary procedure would be a really important matter. i would also like to thank the finnish presidency of the council once again for having touched a very hot iron by at least suggesting that we look at what might be saved in institutional jobs in brussels, given the developments we have been through here in the european union. the fact that you couldn't get it through shows how persistent everything is here. but you are handing the battalion over to the german presidency of the council, and there is now even more hope that their announcement to deal with red tape - that is, bureaucracy, unnecessary regulations and the difficulties of obtaining subsidies in the first place - can be advanced while reducing the number of civil servants. it is a great saving and a way of restoring the credibility of the institutions.
i have to say, madam president, the finnish presidency has shown that the financial regulation can work under the seventh framework programme for research. i would therefore ask our commissioner to refer again specifically to the budgetary rules, because this is of very special importance to us. there is a great deal of justified criticism of the european union. we want to see significant progress in a short time. i therefore ask that these questions be taken seriously, particularly at the technical level, because they seem to us to be of particular political urgency.
the commission has already done so. i know that air safety is not your immediate area of expertise, but the supplementary question is probably easy to answer. we get countless complaints from airline passengers every day. we are experiencing all of this ourselves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. above all, they mean more business for the toothpaste companies and the contact lens fluid companies. in reality, there is no security here.
i have to say, madam president, i have a request that leads me to a substance that is part of the original request. whiskey is made from water, and i have a question about water. i live in a country where you are not used to having to buy water at a high price. water is available everywhere. however, if you look at european airports, even the smallest quantities of water are incredibly expensive to acquire. a small bottle of water costs 3 to 4 euros. i do not think that is acceptable. it is rather the security system that is now in place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to point out two things. the compensation system in international law which you are referring to is precisely the form of compensation which we do not want to give to our citizens: they should not have to take on large-scale legal proceedings to obtain their rights. the question is therefore: can there be a change here, and can we get a clearer definition of the term 'force majeure'? the airline says it's a force majeure if one of the planes is down. in reality, the machine is broken because airlines are increasingly flying with old equipment.
i have to say, madam president, extreme security measures, coupled with the threat of terrorism, have led to increasing delays. of course, these security measures also cost a lot of money. does the commission intend to pass on these costs, which are currently borne by the whole of society, to the airlines or to passengers, or does it intend to continue to impose these general costs on the state, so to speak?
the commission has already done so. the older generation in particular is increasingly interested in encouraging them to spend money, that is, to consume. in contrast, it is becoming increasingly difficult for people in their 40s and 50s to find work. this is reflected in the low level of pensions. the risk of poverty in old age is particularly high for women. how does the commission intend to resolve this contradiction?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to congratulate mr groote on the package he has drawn up with the other shadow rapporteurs. i think it could have been more ambitious. i come from a region in the tyrol which is heavily affected by car emissions. we're moving in a field of tension here. we're talking about micro-costs that we charge to manufacturers, who then try to pass them on to car buyers. on the other hand, it's about macro benefits, say, health. it is difficult to find the exact average here. the compromise is generally acceptable, and if we are honest, what mrs pleštinská said is true: it is not just about having high and strict standards. many other factors also have a strong impact on the actual emissions behaviour of transport, such as the age of the vehicle fleet or driving behaviour. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism, but i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. so let us be honest here and say that european industry has done a lot. if colleagues say that the americans or the californians are the great role models, i can only recommend that you go over there. the standard engine there is an old v8 petrol engine that takes about 20 litres for 100 km. if i have to take california as an example, even though my colleague schwarzenegger is governor there, i have to say that it simply does not correspond to reality. i am also saying this to the commission, because it is important that we try to complete the whole package together and that we have stricter standards in the future. but overall, it is important to take a holistic approach and not just look at one aspect.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues brok and stubb very warmly for their report. but if i look at the two colleagues, mr méndez de vigo and myself, i come to the conclusion that they are obviously not identical twins, but the result is very good. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council. we are making this clearer and clearer, and i think the commission should take a cue from this. there are many colleagues in this house who are in favour of the small european solution and say that the smaller the european union, the better and more homogeneous it is. on the other hand, there are those who say that the bigger the better, because then we can speak for everyone. but we cannot speak for all of them unless we find a common voice. the conditions must therefore be created. it is not quantity that creates europe, but quality. the conditions for this - and i agree with mr méndez de vigo - include the european constitution. it doesn't have to be the current constitution, and it probably won't be. but the essential elements of this constitution must be implemented to make europe capable of action. the second condition is certainly a corresponding financial base. we are already - let us be honest - incapable of meeting the wishes and expectations of our people, which europe should rightly fulfil. how can an enlarged european union function if we do not also create the financial conditions for it? we must tell our governments that you cannot make nice promises on enlargement on the one hand and say on the other hand that we have no money for it when it comes to the financial basis. this is unacceptable and this parliament must make this very clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same applies to financing, which is a fundamental change in the financial basis of the european union. so it's about the ability to integrate. i would like to make it quite clear to my group that the capacity for integration is not a barrier to future enlargement, but a prerequisite for future enlargement, but a necessary prerequisite and not just a by-product of our deliberations, where one or other detail is then changed in an accession treaty. this is no longer acceptable in the future. in parallel, of course, we must continue the discussions on south-eastern europe and the balkans - not just croatia, where i have the honour of being rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am not going to go into the details of the situation. turkey must fulfil its obligations, but we must also fulfil the integration task in cyprus, which we still have to do there, politically. the european union must not be allowed to be a mere speculator, but a speculator. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. mr wiersma and i have brought up the idea of an eu-black sea community to link the countries more closely to the european union. this is a kind of preparatory stage which does not necessarily lead to membership but may lead to it if the conditions are met. we must meet the wishes of our neighbours, but we can only meet them if we meet the wishes of our own fellow citizens in europe. we must create the conditions for that. only then will it be possible to put the vision of a great enlarged europe into practice. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate the two rapporteurs, but i have been trying for some time to shake off the image of the twins. i don't know if iñigo méndez de vigo thought about the mother of these two. it must have been a multi-year birth process. we congratulate the two rapporteurs not because they are both from the ppe but because they are both from the ppe. you have made a very important point in this crisis of the union. what does it mean to see deepening and widening as inseparable? you have presented this task in a comprehensive and critical way, including criticism of the commission, the council and parliament itself. but as twins, they were also doing their best to avoid the very weighty taboo questions behind it. you have shown that the aim is to unite the whole of europe, but you have not asked what the whole of europe is and where its borders lie. if we are talking about unification and deepening, what is the ultimate goal of this unification? it is clear that it is not just a question of linking europe with a market and with money, but what is the political objective? in the duff-voggenhuber report we asked these questions in parliament in january, and they have not been answered. that is one of the reasons why we cannot answer many of the questions and fears of the citizens. we should break this taboo. i am very grateful that the brok report contains very clear criticisms. they refer to the superficial presentation of the financial consequences of the respective enlargements and to the superficial treatment of institutional questions. it is a defect of the commission that from the beginning of this constitutional crisis it has not dealt adequately with the institutional problem. but this criticism also refers to the superficial treatment of the issues of internal security, justice, media freedom and fundamental rights. this is an important clue. i personally regret that cyprus is now being put in the forefront of the turkish question. this is not the real core conflict, because it is rather the conflict over fundamental rights and democracy. these are the real questions that have been somewhat overlooked. these questions should be dealt with much more thoroughly by the commission in the future. how is it possible that after the signing of the treaty in poland we have a government-sponsored discussion on the death penalty? how is it possible that the czech president, a few months after signing such a treaty, is questioning social rights and the social market economy? i think that in the accession negotiations we must negotiate much more strongly with the candidate countries than has been done in the past the consensus on the objective of european political union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no new enlargement without a working constitution! this twin message has been repeatedly addressed by the european parliament over the years, at first in a reserved manner, more recently and again today in a very clear way. we're not doing anybody any good by expanding faster and faster without a if and but. we are putting at risk what has been achieved, we are creating two classes of members by way of derogations, and we are making people in europe feel terrible. enlargement, one of the union's real success stories, has increasingly become a threat in the eyes of many people. we must form an opinion in the best sense of the word. it's not easy, because a constitution has little political sex appeal. it cannot have it in large part because what is at stake is the better functioning of institutions and the adoption of decisions by a majority, discussed in public, rather than high-level diplomacy behind closed doors. it is a question of a financing model that puts the tasks and the money for them in a meaningful, balanced context. and it is often about new tasks in europe, even if many people feel that europe is too much to be enjoyed today: the energy question - even if it remains warm - has a european dimension. we must face this question together. finally, a word on the candidate country, croatia, which is of particular importance to my country. our demand for the constitution does not mean that we block this accession process. quite the opposite! the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the eu. we wish the german presidency all the best in this regard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. like a large corporation that overstretches its workforce in its rapid expansion, the eu has lost its own population. i don't think you can win back lost acceptance with public relations. it is about solving the problems that lie ahead, such as jobs, globalisation, terrorism, crime and waves of refugees. i think that the concern about the eu's ability to accept is at the moment just another tranquilizer to distract from the fantasies of enlargement that already exist and are firmly established. the only thing that has been stressed so far is whether applicants meet the copenhagen criteria. but whether the eu itself can meet the goals of cohesion and integration was not important. to combat the feeling of uncertainty and borderlessness, we need not only a geographical demarcation but also to become aware of the extent to which the eu can cope with social and cultural differences. i think that we are clearly over our capacity to take in people here, thanks to the unbridled immigration policy of recent years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the consideration in principle to ensure that substances of very high concern are replaced by less dangerous substances or technologies in certain cases, where there are economically appropriate and technically feasible alternatives, is positive. however, particular attention should be paid to the possible impact of this regulation on small and medium-sized enterprises and, in this context, on jobs. but since a compromise was found to avert these dangers, this report was accepted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to stress that this is a compromise which could certainly have been improved, particularly in the area of substitution. unfortunately, we found only vague regulations. however, it is the implementation in particular that will show whether these arrangements are viable in practice or not. the member states, the european commission and the newly created chemicals agency are called upon to create something practical for industry. we in the european parliament will certainly have to make sure that this is done properly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the globalization we're talking about is happening whether we like it or not. and this globalisation is also accompanied by the opening up of markets, by international competition, by economic dynamism, by the creation of new jobs, but unfortunately also by the loss of jobs in less competitive sectors. however, in order to use globalisation as an opportunity and to support the workers adversely affected, the establishment of this 'european adaptation fund' should be seen as very positive. the delegation of the övp, however, knowing the structure and size of austrian enterprises, called for a change in the way the fund should be used and the corresponding funds distributed as soon as 500 redundancies are made, rather than 1 000. all other measures, from micro-credit to training, are considered positive and the report is generally supported.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the approach adopted in this legislative instrument, namely an emissions-oriented air safety policy, is the right one. nevertheless, i think that a little more ambition could have been called for, particularly with regard to the limit values for nitrogen oxides. we know that these pollutants cause major problems, especially in narrow alpine valleys. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i have also adopted it because a number-based approach has been adopted, particularly for fine particulate matter. the commission is now called upon to implement this properly. the repair information to be distributed to all independent workshops is also welcome.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the resolution because i consider the jointly drafted text to be very balanced and to take account of my two main concerns, the structural shortcomings of the european union in energy policy and the quality of european relations with russia. we cannot deny our current dependence on foreign nationalized energy companies, just as we cannot put european values behind economic interests. economic and political interests must not be conflated, and concerns about human rights violations and press freedom must not be suppressed in the hope of making energy talks more successful. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report, and you will not be surprised, because it takes a very realistic view of the development of the european project and sets clear objectives. the main thing now is to push forward integration so that we can really seize all the opportunities and keep the european union stable. we need new rules for the work of the institutions, for their interaction and for their financing. we hope that this framework will be ready by 2008. we need new strategies in view of the large number of countries that want to join the european union. the objective of full membership cannot be the only objective. it is necessary to develop alternative perspectives of cooperation with the neighbouring countries. the heads of government should also consider this in the context of turkey, particularly in the sense of a privileged partnership. full membership of turkey is unrealistic because there can be no 71 unanimous votes at union level, no more than there can be all national referendums or the vote in the european parliament. it is therefore all the more important to start negotiations now, which will lead to the further development of a positive climate and which will probably eventually lead to a privileged partnership with this important partner of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is now putting the integration capacity at the centre of the enlargement debate. it is a prerequisite for the success of the enlargement process and for the deepening of the european integration process. before any new enlargement is contemplated, integration must be completed. this means that the institutions must be made sufficiently functional to enable decisions to be taken efficiently and democratically, and the financial transition must also be made. the enlargement to date has been a partial success, and by pushing the integration process forward we will seize every opportunity in the interests of the stability of the european union. i would also like to take this opportunity of my last speech to thank the president, whom i particularly appreciate, for his excellent presidency, which he has underpinned with his own charm. i wish him all the best for a successful future in this house.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you can feel sorry for yourself, honourable finnish presidency of the council. you've been sitting here for six months and you're sitting here for hours. they know the mantras of politics and the usual political business. sometimes you listen, sometimes you don't, and sometimes you hear something when nothing is said. i have only one simple request as someone who, like millions of europeans, has a positive prejudice towards your country: think again about what has been the core problem for you in the last six months that might have brought the germans forward, and tell them. it can be a word, a phrase, solidarity, the constitution, subsidiarity or bureaucracy. but it shouldn't be much and it should be concise. it was supposed to be a message. maybe this will help us a little bit further.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we know that most workers are employed in family businesses. there are concepts of family-friendly enterprise. do you have any plans to develop this and do you think that suggestions could be made on the tax treatment of families?
madam president-in-office, do you think it is helpful for european member states to unilaterally carry out up to one million naturalisations at short notice, thereby naturally harming the other member states? is this also a subject which the european council can and will discuss in the coming days?
it seems that, despite the high regard for the fight against terrorism, this type of policy is being used - as a particularly discouraging example from the united states shows us - to restrict democratic freedoms, to almost abolish them and to curtail freedom of the press. what has the finnish presidency of the council done at european level to ensure that we too are moving in this direction, because in the end we will have either a democratic europe or no europe at all?
what can the council do to enable dangerous nuclear power stations to be taken off the grid by judicial decision? what proposals can you make in the council for the future security of the european citizens?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we should really praise ourselves tonight. if we have a european legal text which is really important to the citizens, we hide it in the night session. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. mathieu grosch is to be thanked for putting together this flea circus. he's already said a lot. we are simplifying, we are making 110 national driving licences and with the new member states it is already much more than these 110 a european driving licence. we're making it safer for you. the issue of the stage-management licence has already been discussed, but there are many other details to be mentioned. we are trying to stop driving licence tourism, and i can only join those who have called on the commission to get the national states to tackle this issue as quickly as possible. we have also made it clear that there will be no discrimination against older licence holders through permanent follow-up checks. older drivers may be dangerous in certain driving situations, but the real dangers on the roads are often younger drivers. i am pleased - and mathieu grosch has also mentioned this - that the austrian presidency has contributed to today's success. the fact that this government was then voted down by the citizens at home fits the picture.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not if you've been in politics for many years, as i have, from the perspective of a minority and the opposition, you know the arrogance and the recklessness of power to confuse itself with the institutions in which it has the majority. then there are those oppressive moments when you feel like a fish in a fishbowl. you open your mouth wide, but no one hears you. the sun has long since set, the debate is taking place before the european public; parliament, which calls for transparency and urges the council and the commission to take citizens and their concerns seriously, is discussing its own affairs late at night after long arguments and at the behest of the small parties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no rational justification for this step. yes, it is true, there are two new member states. recently there were ten new member states without the extension of offices. there are more members, but no more committees. there is no more work for the quaestors or the committees. this request is not to meet the needs and functions of parliament but to satisfy the ambitions of the political groups and the struggle for distribution, all to the detriment of the dignity and the working capacity of this house. so i say, as a dumb fish in a fish tank about to go out, this is shameful, unnecessary, politically irresponsible, and we will vote against it. it is a pity that two members are defending this motion, but the whole house will vote on it by a large majority at noon tomorrow. that's very sad.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. richard corbett is right, and he deserves the honour of being one of the two members who defend this view. my attack is not directed at him. if the small groups would join in the shamelessness and keep their mouths shut, they too would get a crumb or two off the cake. we know that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have read in the austrian media that the temelin nuclear power plant will soon have its hundredth failure. the commission can only receive information on the basis of the goodwill of the competent authorities of the member states. i would like to thank commissioner piebalgs for agreeing to send an official letter to ask about the level of risk at the temelin power station. i also welcome amendment no 5 to the seppänen report, which deals with the international atomic energy agency in the field of safeguards and safety of nuclear power stations. the community should in future develop a code of conduct for an international nuclear accident warning system under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency. that is an excellent proposal in the seppänen report. we need peer review by experts who are competent not only in the member states but at european level, so that in the event of danger a nuclear power plant can be taken off the grid by court order if necessary. we owe this to the safety and health of the citizens and the people of europe. the council is here called upon to abandon the blocking attitude it has adopted so far and to agree to such a peer review group in the interests of safety. we know that there are very different safety regulations, particularly in the area of decommissioning and final storage. this will lead to a gross cost difference and will benefit those who have the least safeguards and security measures and who do not take care of decommissioning and final disposal. it's not working! commissioner piebalgs, i thank you for your support and i hope that the commission will put all the pressure it can on this matter.
in writing. i am voting for the adoption of the european driving licence, because i regard this new system as a great step forward. the new driving licence directive will increase the safety and reduce the crime associated with driving licences, as the possibility of so-called driving licence tourism will be significantly reduced. the creation of a database of road traffic offenders who have been deprived of their driving licence in their home countries is particularly important in this context. this clearly prevents alcoholic offenders from simply renewing their driving licence abroad. i think that the 26 years' period after which all driving licences currently in force must be withdrawn is too long.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the allegations of child sexual abuse by un personnel in haiti and liberia are just the latest in a series of similar scandals. these human rights violations are in stark contrast to the un's peacekeeping, humanitarian mission. un troops are helping to manage transitions from dictatorships to democracies and transformation processes in many parts of the world. but time and again, individual peacekeepers have committed serious crimes and damaged the reputation of peacekeeping operations. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and to provide information on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we call on the united nations to create a working environment in which a culture of silence has no chance. because it is contrary to the zero-tolerance policy of the united nations. it cannot be that sexual abuse is not reported for fear of retaliation. the importance of strengthening the role of women has been stressed today. in this context, i would like to appeal to the council, to the commission and also to the united nations to implement resolution 1325 adopted by the un security council in 2000.
